ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u1	Good-bye, everybody! Colleagues and colleagues! I invite you to take your seats. As I have already informed this high assembly, we will continue today with the 17th, 18th and 19. We'll be working until the end of the discussion of these points. Colleagues and colleagues! Please insert the voting cards into the voting devices so that I have an approximate review of the presence. Are all the government representatives here? They'll be the first to get the word. So far, I don't see enough presence on the "display" to figure that out. I'll wait a few more minutes. Please insert the cards into the voting devices. Please, please, please, please, please, Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Please take your seats. I'll wait a second for you to do this. Please! I ask for peace and order in the hall! First, I will inform you who is unable to attend today's meeting due to other obligations: colleagues Peterle, Janša, Dr Brejc, Rupar, Sušnik, Zamernik, Mag. Vizjak, Germič, Diaci, Gračner, Kangler, colleague Simšič and Orazem. To begin with colleague Merlo and Malovre, from 11.30 a.m. to the afternoon part of the meeting of colleague Jakič. Now I'm going to determine the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" key. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! We're picking up the presence in the hall! 56 present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I'm asking for peace in the hall! As I informed the National Assembly at the beginning of the work at this meeting, today we will move on to the continuation of the meeting at the 17th point, continue with the 18th and 19th and today finish the work after the end of the 19th point. We'll start 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY – REBALANCE PROPOSAL OF THE REBALANCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2002. The Government has submitted this proposal for consideration. I'm asking the Minister of Mags. Robbery, or he wants a word. So I invite the Minister to address the National Assembly. However, I would ask everyone else to gather at the meetings of the National Assembly and allow the speakers a smooth performance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u2	Dear Members, Members, Mr President! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 so that, despite the changed macroeconomic circumstances and the new estimates of these trends this year, on the basis of timely action and transparent budget management, we will be able to carry out all the core and key tasks that we have jointly set when we adopt the budget for 2002. Of course, we also want to ensure adequate public financial stability. The fact is that the assessments of macroeconomic indicators for 2001 were very different both from the preparation and adoption of the budget for 2001 as they are from the statistics on the achievement achieved for 2001. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 was adopted only in May, after two temporary financings and contained over 17 billion Slovenian tolls on the transfer of outstanding liabilities from 2000. At the same time, the revenue realised in 2001 was less than the forecast for more than 16 billion Slovenian tolars. The uncertain international environment and the related forecasts of macroeconomic indicators for 2001 and 2002 have made the implementation of the budget extremely difficult for 2001 and, at the same time, resulted in the 2002 budget being prepared and derived from a high base, both for 2001 and for 2002. This means that the 2002 budget, taking into account the new forecasts of macroeconomic indicators, no longer fully reflects the actual situation and therefore needs to be amended. In 2001, there were significant changes in the structure of the final consumption of gross domestic product, which is reflected in the slower rise in value added tax returns. Thus, the reduction in the total consumption of the population and the country in last year reduced the tax return by around 0.18 percentage points of gross domestic product. Over the last year, the tax return has been reduced not only because of the loss of the population but also because of changes in the structure of private consumption. In the structure of private consumption, the part of private consumption that is taxed at a lower tax rate has increased and, of course, from this title has been and is correspondingly lower in government revenue. It is also true that exports have increased relatively over the past year, which is of course good macroeconomically. However, publicly speaking, this represents a lower tax return when imports are stable or slow. The Spring 2002 report, prepared by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in May, amends the estimates of the economic trends for 2002. New forecasts of macroeconomic developments by the end of 2002 differ from those planned in the 2002 budget memorandum and at the time of adoption of the budget. Gross domestic product is expected to increase by around 3.3% according to these estimates. When the budget was adopted, 3.6% of growth was foreseen. The growth in exports of goods and services will be approximately the same when the budget is adopted, 4.8%. The decrease in imports of goods and services will be 3.8% instead of 4.7%. Much lower than predicted is a new estimate of growth in domestic private consumption, up to 2.3% instead of projected 3%. The final domestic consumption, private and state consumption, which largely determines the volume of budget revenues from indirect taxes, will increase by a maximum of 2.5%. At the time of preparation of the budget, 3.3% were foreseen. The projected growth in investment consumption will also be lower than anticipated when the budget is adopted, 2.9% instead of 4.6%. Employment growth in 2002, which is of course important in terms of public financial revenues, will be lower than anticipated, but will still reach around 0.9%. So there is no doubt that the estimates of macroeconomic trends have changed. And so far in the discussions on the proposal for a budget rebalancing, the government has been given a number of indications regarding unrealistic forecasts of macroeconomic developments, despite the fact that, for the years 2001 and 2002, it is a characteristic that these forecasts have changed and are still changing practically for the whole world, from month to month. And there is no exception for Slovenia. If you allow, you would give such an example of assessments - while with me the Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis is likely to further explain the basics and ways of predicting individual macroeconomic trends. Thus, for example, the forecast of the International Monetary Fund for the Movement of Gross Domestic Product for Germany changed as follows: in May 2001 the assessment of the International Monetary Fund was to increase the gross domestic product in Germany by 2.6%; in October 2001 it changed this assessment, as well as other international institutions, for a forecast of 2.6% to 1.8%. Just one month later, almost one and a half months later, from October to December, this same institution, as well as others, changed the growth forecast for Germany from 1.8% to 0.7%. For Italy, the estimate was 2.5%, October 2% and December only 1.2%. For Austria, 2.6%, in May, October, still rated 2.6%, and only one month later, the assessment of institutions assessing macroeconomic trends was that gross domestic product growth in Austria would be 1.3%, i.e. by 50% changed the estimate in one month and a half. Similarly, these estimates changed for Slovenia, but not so much. Thus the assessment for Slovenia was 4% in May, they still rated 4% in October - we took 3.6% into the budget, as you know, and we have already corrected the assessment ourselves - and from October to December this same institution changed the assessment to 3%, that is, when we have practically already adopted the budget. It is precisely because of the rapidly changing estimates of macroeconomic developments that we have specifically stressed at the time of the adoption of the budget that, in so far as the assessments continue to change and that there is a likelihood and we do not keep it a secret, that we will make budgetary corrections in a public and transparent manner in the National Assembly and in the way they do in all democratic European countries, with a balance that is a completely normal and normal budget management instrument. And of course, that's what we're doing today. Three types of measures will in fact be implemented in order to align budgetary expenditure with a new assessment of expected expenditure in 2002. That is to say, to provide additional non-taxable resources of around 10 billion, to reduce spending rights for budget users and to increase budget deficits, but within the scope already permitted in the adoption of the 2002-2003 law on the implementation of the budget in the event of lower revenues, so of course to retain those most important expenditure, the most important priorities, the public financial and, of course, developmental ones, to continue. In reducing spending rights, the government has avoided linear reduction and therefore proposals for the reduction of rights are prepared exclusively in cooperation with the ministries and in areas or parts of the budget that do not jeopardise the priorities and objectives endorsed in the National Assembly with the draft budget for 2002. The only increase in budget expenditure is foreseen for additional transfers to the pension fund, to an extent slightly higher than 4 billion. Taking into account also the increase in the current budget we have implemented at the beginning of the year, this increase will be 9 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The 2002 budget rebalancing proposal foresees that spending rights for direct budget users will be reduced by 14.4 billion Slovenian tolars. This represents approximately 1% of the budget in force on 24.5.2002 The changes that we are proposing are undoubtedly without prejudice to the economic and programme structure of the 2002 budget and therefore remain fundamental priorities and tasks of the government unchanged, and we will be able to implement them within the proposed framework. Essentially more important than quantitative and substantive intervention in the 2002 budget is the way in which we balance the budget and it is timely and transparent. This is a way that, in our view, must become an integral part of the government's dynamic response to changing economic circumstances. I therefore propose that you accept the rebalancing in the proposed form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister Mag. Robbery. As a speaker, I now invite the Chairman of the Finance Committee, my colleague Puck, to give him my word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers and ministers and other representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly discussed the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year at its 26th meeting, at which it held a general debate on the proposed act. Following a very extensive introductory presentation by the Minister of Finance, an opinion or disagreement was expressed in the debate with the Minister's emphasis that the rebalancing is in fact a normal and preventive measure by the Government to avoid any major difficulties in the implementation of the budget, drawing attention in particular to the urgency of budgetary resource planning, as well as the use of budgetary resources as a basic guide already in the budget preparation phase. It is therefore not possible to define the adoption of the balance after a few months, from the debate, of the implementation of this year's budget in this respect as a normal measure or as something common. Unrealistic or pre-optimistic assessments, particularly with regard to the expected economic growth on which the budget for this year is based, which the opposition has also repeatedly pointed out, are now proving problematic. For example, the balance of the budget could be defined as a completely normal measure in the second half of the year, in which we are now, when it could actually be the result of what could not be foreseen in time. The proposed measures in the proposal for a rebalancing show two ways to address the emerging situation, with the country being able to replace the loss of revenue by a new debt or by balancing the budget expenditure with the expected revenue. However, it is not possible to identify the essential issue of how to substitute for budget resources. Some opposition parties therefore believe that a comprehensive analysis of the budgetary implementation achieved, particularly on the revenue side, and of course on the expenditure side, should be prepared when preparing the proposal for a rebalancing. With regard to the Minister's statement on the rationalisation of the State's investments, it was pointed out in the debate that it was only a delay in some substantial investments in the future budget period, which did not bear witness to rationalisation. In addition to reducing investment funds, which cannot be defined as a countercyclical measure, deficits and inflation, both virtually at the edge of convergence criteria, are also problematic. With regard to the reasons for the rebalancing submitted and the views expressed in the debate on unrealistic planning during the preparation phase of this year's budget, including the assessment of the projected economic growth, the Committee's discussion also expressed the opposite opinion on the unreasonableness of such a position. This is an extremely uncertain situation, both when adopting the budget and during the period of its implementation. The difference between then and the new assessment of economic growth is not significant. Even after assessing the mission of the International Monetary Fund, which was in a hurry to visit Slovenia during the period just before the adoption of the budget for this year and next year, it is not possible to accurately anticipate economic growth or anticipate any factors affecting this growth. The mission also drew attention to the need for great budget flexibility or adaptation to the actual movement of individual indicators, including the proposed rebalancing. With regard to the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing, which shows the expenditure of individual budget users, the expenditure of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs was highlighted as a reduction in resources. Despite the fact that this is the result of laws adopted and of course reduced transfers, the view was expressed that the proposed savings at the expense of families could not be defined as smart and good. It reflects the policy of the Slovenian government to the parental problem. In addition, the Minister of Finance stressed that the basis for the proposed reduction in the use of these funds is a re-examination of the way in which the law governs this area and a realistic assessment of expenditure on the basis of legal obligations. This is how all beneficiaries will receive these funds, and in the area of family benefits and parental benefits, expenditure will continue to increase significantly this year, despite the proposed reduction, from 81 billion to 89 billion Slovenian tolls. The rebalancing will only be slightly lower than the Ministry responsible had planned in preparing its work in this year's budget. Therefore, the evidence of anti-union-oriented government policies is extremely incorrect. In this part of the debate, the Minister also drew particular attention to transfers to ensure social security, where the government is leading an active policy on the implementation of the programme against poverty and is significantly increasing expenditure in this area. With regard to the fact that the government does not act counter-cyclically because it interferes with the procurement area, the minister stressed that governments have not deliberately intervened in investment transfers to local communities. According to the government's assessment, funds in this area are increasing by 14%, which is huge in the current fiscal situation, given the real increase in total budget expenditure by 4%. With regard to certain budgetary resources, the Minister drew attention to the different nature of taxes and to the system of collection of certain taxes on the basis of the tax reform adopted. The value added tax is extremely sensitive to the real economic situation, which is also its main advantage. Thus, economic developments are immediately reflected in the area of public finances, and this forces public finance managers to take immediate action and make appropriate adjustments. There is always doubt as to whether to increase the deficit or increase taxes or lower expenditure. According to the Minister's assessment, in this case it is necessary to seek optimism between the increase in deficits and the increase in expenditure. In particular, there is still a relatively rapid increase in government expenditure and also of budget expenditure, and in this respect the government is still working counter-cyclically. As public expenditure must follow resource dynamics, as well as economic growth assessments, the Ministry of Finance, with the balance sheet presented, also wanted to achieve a demonstration effect, particularly due to the importance of future public finances management, in order to make the rebalancing normal. The balance will not mean what some now tell him, either that there is no need for the government to act differently, or that it is not sufficient. In the opinion of the debate, the hidden balance would be extremely poor, as the debate of the National Assembly is particularly valuable for the reason that all budgetary users receive a clear message on the real limits of resources to be managed without any room for additional spending of budgetary resources. Under the budget implementation law, the government could use a fiscal stabiliser that allows for an additional 15 billion-dollar country debt and carry out transfers on the expenditure side. However, such action would be untransparent. This issue is also important for the coming year, and especially for 2004, as the preparation of the budget for this year will be one of the most demanding budgetary projects, not only due to restrictions in public finances, but in particular due to the approximation of the European Union and the necessary assessment of the revenue and expenditure associated with the integration into the European Union, the payment of funds into the European budget and the revenue from the European Union. With regard to the use of a fiscal stabiliser, the Committee has expressed its view that the Government, when using reserves that are certainly still in place in the budget, could also renounce and thus contribute to the reduction of public debt. In the Committee's debate, the view was particularly expressed that this rebalancing was a corrective action by the Government, which could also be addressed differently, but not by the proposed reduction of some in the national council of projects already adopted or the introduction of new priorities, as this is evidenced by poor planning in the preparation of this year's budget. A question was also raised regarding the reality of the rebalancing submitted, taking into account data on estimated 2.2% real economic growth in the first quarter of this year. In its reply, the Minister specifically stressed that economic growth and public finances are not always proportionate. Of course, the structure of revenues is crucial, and where economic growth is estimated to be lower, for example due to higher import dynamics, this is not necessarily negative from the point of view of public finances, since a very important public financial source represents a value added tax at the time of imports. Of course, the dynamics of exports and imports and their proportionality are extremely important. Therefore, there is no derogation in this part of the first half of this year and there is no need for any correction of the budget, irrespective of such estimated economic growth in the first quarter of this year. Following the Committee's budgetary debate, at its 25th extraordinary session, the Committee considered the amendments proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia and rejected them all. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I propose that, following the consideration of the 2002 budget rebalancing, you be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? He doesn't want to. I therefore give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. I will give them my word in the following order: first, my colleague, Dr. Bajuk, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, colleague Janez Podobnik, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, colleague Jože Tanko, on behalf of the Socialist Party Group, colleague Kebrič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members and colleague of Peca on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group of Members. Dr. Bajuk's colleague first. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Coalition drew attention to the unrealistic assumptions on which the 2002 budget was prepared, as well as to the excessive growth rates of key Moroccan aggregates, of course 2003 is not worth talking about. This is known and undeniable. It drew attention to what is now the reason for the adoption of the budget's rebalancing. Firstly, on an unrealistic assessment of the basis for 2001, this is particularly for an unrealistic assessment of tax revenues, and secondly, for an unrealistic forecast of gross domestic product growth or all those macroeconomic categories for 2002, with which the implementation of the 2002 budget is directly or indirectly linked. Why did the opposition think that the assumptions for the budget plan were unrealistic? The reason for this was not only 11 September and the projected decline in economic growth in Western markets, where our economy exports the most. We have seen the reason for this in the changes that have taken place in our exports some months before 9/11. The export structure has started to change, the share of Slovenian exports to the markets of the European Union and the OECD countries in general has started to decrease, and the share of sales to the Russian market and the markets of the former common country has increased. Instead of addressing the causes of less competitiveness in Western markets and investing more, the economy has focused on less demanding markets. The state has done very little for the restructuring. Investments in the economy have started to decline. Both the government and the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia saw a great opportunity for the Slovenian economy in a shift towards less demanding markets, as it sometimes seemed last year to be a real euphoria. Even postgraduate students of the Faculty of Economics of Internationally Comparable Studies MBA fully devoted their application work to performances in the former Yugoslav market, maintaining and restoring the advantages that we once had there, The topics of acquisition of ex-Yugoslavian markets were intended for the most elite business conferences in 2001. Slovenian economist Veljko Bole reminded us last December of the following: "Export to the Russian or exante Yugoslav market is unpredictable, risky and swinging. The decline in oil prices, for example, can greatly exacerbate the economic situation in Russia overnight, resulting in the decline of its purchasing power. As the economic and political situation in these markets is volatile, exporters do not choose to invest at home. However, if investments fall, there is no promise of a more robust economic growth for a little longer.” You can read the full statement in the article in the Journal of Work on 15 December 2001, and I recommend it from the heart because it is interesting reading, given what is happening now, in these months and what we are debating today, as far as we are discussing. There was another factor affecting smaller investments in the economy. Those who should or could be involved in investment in the development of the Slovenian industry prefer to channel capital into financial investments. The imprudent and mildly said weakly controlled Slovenian capital market certainly allows individuals and groups to achieve greater individual benefits than caring for the development of the Slovenian industry and economy. By the way, it is good to recall that the associated capital inflows at the end of 2001 threatened the management of monetary policy. The aggregates by which we measure the amount of money in circulation, M1, M2 and M3 have exceeded the planning. Last year, Mr Veljko Bole said in this same article: “The influx from abroad has already reached a rate which the International Monetary Fund has been described as irresistible by the end of 2001.” This, of course, also has negative consequences for our inflation. That is also why, at this last regular meeting of the National Assembly, we asked Governor Gaspari if monetary and fiscal policies were harmonised. This is a number of factors that require coordination. The outcome of the last disagreement between the Minister of Economy, who said that inflation was the fault of monetary policy, and between the Governor, who felt that the price was primarily controlled, remained rather unclear in public, even after government and central bank representatives met. If we go back to the factors of unrealistic planning, then we should also note the unrealistic assumption of further growth in personal consumption, which was one of the key assumptions of the government approach. It is known that the indebtedness of our population in 1999 reached the highest level until then, which is 24% according to its income. In the meantime, for example, when this is 28% for the citizens of the United States of America, these are, of course, the most indebted population in the world. The fixed indebtedness for Slovenians is estimated to be around 16%. Therefore, in our view, the pre-optimistic planning of the 2002 state budget was the main drivers of the excessive growth of total consumption, in particular investment, with only one fifth of the state investment. Of course, if the government had taken these warnings into account, there would have been a lot of difficulty in drawing up the 2002 budget and, above all, in coordinating coalitions. It should do what is inevitable in future budgets, because, in our view, with the current rebalancing, it only gradually proclaims the necessary changes, but it does not. That the government is slowly aware of this and that it has decided to lay down some kind of gradual disclosure, gives its own warning in the budget's balance sheet, and here I quote that "in determining fiscal stability, we must not rely on the Maastricht criteria, which state that the budget deficit must not exceed 3% of the gross domestic product and the public debt must not exceed 60% of the gross domestic product". In other words, today the government is telling us what we have already found in the Coalition of Slovenia and what we have also publicly pointed out - that Slovenia cannot afford to increase its public debt, not even to the limit of 60% of gross domestic product, because in this case annual interest payments would exceed 200 billion tolars. According to the government, with an increase in debt for the overall projected deficit of income, 40 billion, interest obligations in 2002 would have increased to 91 billion, from 78 planned, and in 2004 to 101.6 billion. I must point out that the public debt shown is, I repeat, that the public debt of the state budget at the end of 2001 was already 1,228.9 billion tolars or 2.9% exceeded the public expenditure of the State budget for 2001, which was $1.194.2 billion. What approach should the Government take in the preparation of the 2002 budget plan? For a more successful management of fiscal and overall economic policy, it would be necessary, in our view, for the government to do two things in preparing the 2002 budget: Firstly, it should approach a thorough analysis and a partial change in the structure of budgetary spending and in this context to draw up budgetary programmes such as know the objectives and criteria for measuring the achievement of these objectives in terms of cost-effectiveness, efficiency and performance. To what the average taxpayer would simply call savings. However, I do not mean such a savings that linearly reduces certain budget lines or pushes expenditure into the future, but rather the savings that are the fruit of a sober judgment that only a good master knows. Secondly, it should approach the establishment of medium-term parameters for the maintenance of the so-called aggregate fiscal discipline of the state budget and of total public expenditure. It has itself found that, given the current possibilities of the Slovenian economy and the country, we cannot apply the general criteria adopted by the European Union for its Member States or, as I have already mentioned, that the Maastricht criteria represent an excessive degree of possible indebtedness for us. Such an approach to the preparation of the budget, based on a sober assessment of our options, would certainly not have a negative impact on economic growth, but on the contrary, would have a positive impact on our economic development, since this would finally be a clear signal that would reduce the economic uncertainty of our future by ensuring that the time of fairy tales and diversion is inevitably running out. The unrealities of government budget estimates were also noted in the preparation of the state budget, as well as economic analysts, as Banka Slovenije still stands out with its forecast of 2.9 per cent of gross domestic product for 2002. How should the National Assembly be convinced of the quality of budgetary planning? In view of the fact that, at the time of this budget rebalancing, the government or its finance minister, by the way, or indirectly, inform us that it will be necessary to get used to more frequent rebalancies even in the future, that the rebalancies are a normal instrument, we must point out to the government that credibility can only be ensured through independent budgetary assessments. The Codes of Fiscal Transparency of the International Monetary Fund and the OECD specifically warn of this. Thus, the International Monetary Fund Code requires the Central Bank to publish its macroeconomic forecasts, including the technical assumptions on the basis of which they are made. The working methods and assumptions of the macroeconomic forecasts used by the government must be made available to the public no later than the time when the annual budget is presented to the legislative authorities. An institutional mechanism must be provided which provides an independent assurance to the public that fiscal and macroeconomic forecasts are of high quality. This requirement can also mean that fiscal and macroeconomic models are available to external experts. In Australia, for example, the financial macroeconomic model can be seen on the websites of the Australian Statistical Office. In the UK, it is stipulated by law that macroeconomic models must be made available to the public. The macroeconomic assumptions used in the budget must also be made available to the public by private individuals. In Canada, the country uses average values produced by private forecasters, "folcasters". In some countries, such as France, there is a mechanism for formal public review of the quality of macroeconomic forecasts by experts. In the United States, a Congressional Budget Office, which reports directly to the Congress, is preparing a complex set of macroeconomic and fiscal forecasts that Congressmen study and compare with those contained in the Presidential Draft Budget. In Slovenia, the situation is such that the Ministry of Finance is reluctant to provide all data, even to another government office such as UMAR. At least that's what happened in 2000. The International Monetary Fund also reports, in its assessment of fiscal transparency in Slovenia, published on 13 July 2002, which can be seen on the International Monetary Fund website, on the irregular relationship in this area between the Ministry of Finance and the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. On the other hand, the government, when citing the assessments, refers only to the OMAR, but does not take them as its own, although the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development is a government office, not for example, the Office of the National Assembly. By far the most data and models have a private institution, the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law d.o.o. His databases and methodologies are, as we know, inaccessible to the public, although this institution was once a social institution, and today most of its revenues are obtained under contracts with the government. In this regard, I ask the Government when, for example, we can expect that, in the Commission of the National Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, they can order the verification of budgetary forecasts from outside government independent experts and what databases could be obtained from the government or its offices for this purpose. Are such thoughts present in our government at all? I would not want the government to answer this question in this sense: “Our data and forecasts are being verified by the international institutions.” The fact is that these institutions do not normally monitor and analyse official government forecasts and are insured in different ways in their assessments. For example, in the previous report, the International Monetary Fund was insured only now, after ten years, to recommend that the Government provide a translation of key budget documents into the global language. In other words, this means that over the past ten years, our budget planning by the International Monetary Fund has only been checked on the basis of spot-on translations or interpretations provided by those who have also prepared the budget documents. Of course, that's not enough. When the budgetary crisis strikes, it is felt by all citizens, at least by representatives of international institutions and by the current domestic budget document preparers. This is what experience has been saying all over the world, and not least from a former common country. In order to transfer foreign examples, regulations and practices in the preparation and adoption of the state budget to Slovenia, a number of changes will also have to be made in the National Assembly itself. It is therefore not clear that the National Assembly is not interested in the difference between the forecasts of the central bank, which still has 2.9% economic growth foreseen by 2002, and in the fact that, in adopting the budget for 2001 and 2002, the ruling parties have prevented or justified the Governor's performance in the National Assembly in the consideration of the State budget and today in the budgetary rebalancing. President Pahor warned the Coalition of Slovenia that this is wrong or that it introduces a regime that goes in the opposite direction from the development of these developed democratic countries. When presenting the annual report on Banka Slovenije's work for 2001 at the last regular meeting of the National Assembly, the Governor of the Central Bank did not clearly answer the question of whether fiscal and monetary policies for 2002 are harmonised, that is, gentlemen, whether the budget rebalancing leads to objectives that will enable Banka Slovenije to achieve targeted inflation. But the caravan's moving on. Is our public spending at country level really fully demonstrated or is there anything else we are hiding so as not to move 3% of the budget deficit? In addressing the 2002 budget rebalancing, it should be noted that the 2002 budget has certainly not cleared up all the hidden budgetary deficits. This hidden deficit, created by the misstatement of incomes in past budgets and, of course, by government pianists, has been skillfully named a compensatory deficit and estimated at about 75 billion tolars, is now subject to public relativisation, not only by such a rename, but also through public statements, both by the Finance Minister and by the Prime Minister himself. The budget deficit this government is also hiding on the side of expenditure. This hidden budget deficit is the amount at the end of the year of undeclared and undeclared liabilities transferred to the following financial year in order to formally achieve the budget deficit in the adopted budget. Some information or information on these known for the financial year 2000 and 2001. That this treatment of the outstanding obligations on the content of the hidden deficit is not only our expert opinion, but also a warning that is already found in the above-mentioned codes of fiscal transparency of international financial institutions. Today, we would like to draw attention to at least two forms of hidden deficit on the expenditure side of the State budget. Firstly, to demonstrate investment expenditure for the military financed by dedicated loans for the TRP core development programmes and, secondly, to demonstrate the cashing-up of state guarantees when they are cashed. These two cases are therefore known previously by the competent institutions, the International Monetary Fund and, of course, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the first - the government miscalculates in the budget the expenditure on the military financed by loans under the Basic Development Programmes Act. During investment expenditure, it does not show the amount of purchases for military needs paid from TRP loans but only the amounts of the anuity paid for these loans. It exhibits them in the way they set out in 1993 when budgetary accounting has not yet been managed according to the current cash basis, but in a manner that is expected to comply with the current federal accounting legislation. Although the competent experts, as we know, have pointed out that the current finance minister has also been warned of an inappropriate solution for the current regime. The Ministry of Finance today, aware of the irregularities, refers to the decision of the week without wanting to eliminate it without adapting the system without the exception. In this way, it is not only too low for the total budgetary expenditure in the current state budget and the part spent on defence purposes, but also for the annual indebtedness of the state. Although the law on the implementation of the budget provides that the task for TRP does not count as a total annual commitment to the State budget. However, the amount of the annual debt shall not be indicated. However, this has not yet justified the fact that procurement for the purpose of the military is either incomplete or an exception to the system regime. The final budget account for 2002 or its audit report, which has not yet been examined by the National Assembly, states, for example, that in 2000, the country under TRP was in charge of approximately 9.5 billion tolars and, most importantly, for most of the amount in domestic banks. This amount does not appear in balance sheet A of the Ministry of Defence according to the current methodology, its financial plan shall indicate, in so far as possible, the amounts to be recovered from these loans. He also drew attention to the incorrect disclosure of defence expenditure by the International Monetary Fund in his already mentioned report on the fiscal transparency of the Slovenian state budget, under points 15 and 34. In point 15, he provided a reasoned conclusion on the actual situation and recorded in point 34 [[Quote]] : "Public expenditure or expenditure for military purposes must be fully covered in the budget of the year when they were created, in accordance with the Code of Fiscal Transparency and Best International Practice. This step will help to make the Slovenian budget and financial statistics more consistent with international practice." As far as the other aspect is concerned. Another example of concealing public spending and the actual level of the budget deficit that we wish to draw attention to today is the presentation of cash guarantees at the burden of the state budget. When the guarantee for which the guarantee has been granted directly by law or by the Government under the common annual quota of guarantees issued under the law on the implementation of the budget is cashed, it shall not appear in the budget as a budgetary expenditure, although there is no possibility that the State will ever recover that debt from the debtor. The government, according to the Court of Auditors, is simply recording the expenditure incurred as a result of the payment by the State of the guaranteed loan as a newly approved loan in the B balance sheet. In some cases, it converts the expenditure on cash guarantees into an increase in the capital investment of the debtor without any increase in the assets of the debtor. That the government's doing so is at odds with economic logic is quite clear; it is likely also contrary to legal rules. If, for example, in recent years, the National Assembly has given a guarantee to banks for loans granted to various companies, such as Tam Maribor, and there has gone bankrupt and the banks have gone bankrupt and the West Banks are cashing in the burden of the State budget, the state budget cannot record this expenditure as a new loan [[you can see this in the table in Rapporteur number 20, on page 239]] . It's similar in other cases. For example, in cashing guarantees that cannot be paid by closing mines, as state subsidies are obtained to cover current closure costs. The Ministry's representatives are pleased to explain that these newly approved loans will eventually recover from the liquidation or bankruptcy of the closing mines as well. It is good to be optimistic, but it is therefore necessary to base on realistic assumptions in the case of state finances. Once again, it must be said that the behaviour of the government is nothing less than concealing actual public spending and State aid with negative effects. We therefore ask the Government and its Finance Minister when it intends to address the conditional obligations of “contingence liability” as required by the rules of the above-mentioned codes of fiscal transparency and whether to demonstrate a hidden budget deficit under this title. In the 16th paragraph of the report, the International Monetary Fund indirectly pointed out this problem by finding that there are, among other things, no reports of conditional obligations in the State budget: “No statement on contingent liabilities.” A special example of the non-transparent exercise of budgetary spending is loans when Slovenian railways have been leased under the State guarantee in the last ten years. Since the Slovenian Railways do not have a place to pay from, the Government takes them into its debt or repayment by contract on the basis of legal powers. We do not know whether such a merger is included in the annual quota for the total government budget. We're assuming not. We have encountered the problem of correctly expressing the change in the country's debt guarantees when we read the audit report on the 2000 final budget account, which is on page 246. It should be noted that the borrowing of state-guaranteed loans by Slovenian railways for the construction of a state-owned railway infrastructure is nothing more than the financing of state investments, which is not shown as budgetary expenditure. And what should be said in the 2002 budget balance presented? Rebalancing is not the best thing to do. The main concern is that it does not show any data on the actual implementation of the budget for 2001 and the current period for 2002 and on the taking-up of commitments for payments in the coming years. In particular, it shall be noted that the following substantive matters are of particular importance. The government's assessment of the growth forecast for gross domestic product in the balance sheet is still higher than the assessment of the Bank of Slovenia. It decreases from 3.6% to 3.3%. At the very beginning, however, the Bank of Slovenia planned economic growth of 2.9%. In all of this, it is already known that the actual gross domestic product growth rate achieved in the first quarter of this year is only 2.2% higher than the same period in 2001, i.e. 0.4% lower gross domestic product growth than in the last quarter of last year when it was 2.6%. Economic growth in Slovenia has been declining for the fifth consecutive quarter, with the exception of the third quarter of 2001. The reasons why gross domestic product growth in the second quarter and all subsequent quarters in 2002 would be so much higher that at the annual level it could achieve a GDP growth of 3.3%, the government does not present and, in view of everything I have already said, its assessment cannot be trusted. It would therefore be realistic to expect another rebalancing which, in our view, will not be adequate time and will probably be replaced by a rather special circular on the end of the 2002 financial year, just as it did for the 2000 financial year on the outstanding 23.9 billion tolars, as well as for 2001. According to the government, 6 billion tolars of unpaid and outstanding liabilities. Tax revenues were planned first in the first draft of the 2002 budget for 1 000 108 billion and then increased by another 10 billion, to 118.8 with the revision of the budget plan. The tax revenue actually realised or shown for the State budget for 2001 was 1 thousand 39.6. In the adopted budget, the government planned this and nominal increase in tax revenues by 7.6 per cent, with a rebalance in tax revenue in 2002 reducing to 1 000 82.5 and thus provides nominally for 4.1 per cent higher tax revenue than last year, which means a real reduction in tax revenues by about 2.8 per cent. Inflation is planned at a rebalancing rate of over 6.9%. I hope that comes true. The main factor affecting the need for the preparation of the budget balance is the conclusion that VAT and excise duties, despite the increase in rates in 2002, will not bring as much as was planned. The movement of these two tax categories depends in particular on the movement of domestic consumption, both private and public real growth in private consumption, is expected to be reinforced by only a good half-percent point in the budget rebalancing. However, national consumption is expected to be significantly higher by 2.9 instead of the original 3.7 per cent after the autumn forecast. However, real growth in total consumption is expected to be higher by 2.5 per cent. By the way. The reduction in VAT in the budget balance from last year's 440.6 to 424.9 billion raises doubts about compliance with the forecast that real personal consumption will increase by 0.5 percent and total consumption by 2.5. The question is whether the change in the structure of personal consumption is indeed going to reduce tax returns or whether it is going to be assessed in the balance sheet as a result of the uncollected VAT. Without expert analysis of the answer cannot be provided. For the first time in the budget rebalancing after two fiscal years, the great optimism of forecasting private consumption growth is to follow a more realistic forecast. Over the past two years, government forecasters, as already mentioned, have been based on the assumption that growth in personal consumption will follow the trends of 1999. At that time, before VAT was introduced, citizens spent more on relatively favourable consumer loans for more lasting goods. However, it is worrying that the tax return has been reduced not only because of the decline in the volume of private consumption but also because the structure of private consumption has changed over the past two years, as Slovenian households are on average spending more on nutrition. The average citizen's standard is deteriorating, as increasing his share of food income and reducing his share of other goods means just that. According to the government or Mr Veljko Bolet, changing the structure of personal consumption in the light of the current trend would reduce the tax return of about 0.6 billion tolars per month, which would only mean 7.2 billion tolars less paid per year for this reason. In particular, in this finding, changes in the consumption structure are worrying the government's data that, and I quote here, "since the last quarter of 2000 the average rate of increase in food prices has increased rapidly; in a year, relative prices have increased over 3%". This conclusion shows at least that in the Slovenian economy, if not the other, there is no real market competition in this area. This calls for action by the Ministry of Economy or the whole government. It is important to find out who is increasing relative prices, domestic food or processing industries or large traders who are increasingly becoming oligopolies. The Slovenian Coalition is interested in what the government or economic ministries have already done to identify and address the causes of the rise in relative food prices. Since the budget balance does not contain the final accounts of the budget for 2001 or the implementation of the budget for the previous year, nor does it provide data on the actual realisation of tax and other revenue by the end of May or June of this year, nor does it provide sufficient information for a more accurate assessment as to the extent to which the budget rebalancing is still too optimistic. Members can be helped mainly with data in the publication, the Public Finance Bulletin and other public institutions, such as the ATP data on taxes collected by the end of May 2002. Let us mention some of these data that show that the forecasts of tax revenue in the rebalancing may also be pre-optimistic. According to this data, a total of 140 billion VAT tolls were collected by the end of May last year and 142 or nominally only 1.4% more during the same period this year. However, within this amount, VAT was much lower after domestic accounts than last year, only a good 57% of last year's yield. We hear that this is something better in June, but it still cannot change this trend. The increase in VAT rates this year from 19 to 20, from 8 to 8.5, will not contribute to an increase in VAT collection, not as much as inflation, or, in other words, the impact of the increase in VAT rates will be eliminated with other changes. Nor can we expect a corresponding higher VAT return to be expected from the changes in the planned situation of import and export growth in order to meet the assessments in the budget rebalancing. With the budget rebalancing, the projected VAT reduction of 27.1 billion tolars is thus displayed and even too small. According to the Coalition of Slovenia, the reduction in the share of VAT in the structure of all tax revenues, since by the end of May 2002 with regard to the same period 2001 shows as much as 5% of the points of difference, requires the Ministry of Finance to provide more independent analyses and gives more attention to this tax source. In our view, a special analysis also deserves the Government's conclusion in the first part of the rebalancing that 44% of exporters were eligible for VAT refunds in 1999, already 46% in 2000, and that it is just outside the threshold when they become beneficiaries of VAT refunds for 800 additional companies, which is due to an increase in their share of exports in the total sales. This must also be the subject of good analysis. However, Members would, of course, need data on the state and movement of the wrongly paid VAT or more clearly on the tax debt to be assessed more consistently and more comprehensively by the assessment of the tax forecast in the budget rebalancing. Although such data or data on all types of taxes as part of budgetary documents require codes from the constant fiscal transparency of the International Monetary Fund and the OECD, irrespective of "cash or accrual" the accounting basis for the presentation of the budget, this data does not reach the national assembly. The tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia remains a secret, both for taxpayers and Members. There is no reference to the height and change of tax debt in the balance sheet. It is also worth noting that the government is reducing in the balance all tax sources or types of tax downwards, except for the duties it raises. This also shows that, when drawing up the budget, she wanted the best possible external image and she was not interested enough in the quality of budgetary revenue planning. And something else in the additional tax sources, worth SIT 7.5 billion in the balance sheet of the budget, of which EUR 5.3 billion is the profit of the APP. This profit was created because since 1997 the government has not been willing to lower the price of payment services to the detriment of the economy, legal persons and the interests of banks, which will be difficult for the economy to achieve as low prices as it has reached the APP. That's a different story. In the end, the government has taken on the biggest issue of technological and organisationally reckless reforms in domestic payment. It would be good to have that money back to legal persons, at least that's what they say, that SDK was doing in the previous system. It should be said, however, that we have reliable information that the government has not only directed profits in these years, the surplus of revenue over the expenditure of the PPP to the state budget, but also secretly spent the resources of the APP by re-employing redundant employees from the APP to the state administration and still receiving salaries at the burden of the APP. Finally, it is important to note that we expected the government, when presenting the budget's balance sheet, to make clear how it would deal with the revenues of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. We expected her to make proposals, and the National Assembly will decide how this purchase will be used. It can be concluded from the budget balance that the government has not yet made a final decision on this. However, doubts about the government are the daily story in our public space, as the purchase proceeds show as a cash balance in the accounts of assets in balance sheet C. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the National Assembly decides on many, at least from a material point of view, less important matters, such as what we will do with the purchase from the sale of the state bank or how we will manage or manage our public debt as economically as possible. The use of the State budget is formally divided into programmes and sub-programmes. Indeed, the allocation of budgetary expenditure in our national budget has very little or nothing to do with the budgetary programmes they know in developed democratic countries. In order to be able to talk about budget programmes, we should know their components, we should know their "input" and "out path", their objectives and criteria for measuring targets in terms of efficiency, efficiency and performance. They should know the time of their beginning and of their end, or separate them into repeated and unique ones, and at the rebalancing they know the degree of their realization. Under these conditions, of course, in the National Assembly, we could decide in a responsible manner for which purposes they would reduce budget spending and for which they did not. All such tasks have not yet been carried out by the government under the leadership of Drnovšek and under the auspices of the LDS; the reallocation between programmes has so far been carried out mainly within the framework of the current budget, i.e. in government competence. Of course it's all legal. But now we are not talking about legality, prudence and smart management. Since there is a need to provide 11 billion dollars more than planned in the adopted budget for 2002 following the current state budget pension assessment, more interventions are, of course, needed to achieve the so-called savings of 14.4 billion. Reduce expenditure on goods and services 4.1 billion, which was probably the easiest to propose. Reduce expenditure or postpone payment and investment dynamics in 2003, 4.3 billion, or reduce reserves by as much as 6 billion. The most controversial and unconvincing explanation is, of course, the reduction in reserves, which is for more than half of the budget of the planned amount. Reserves were initially projected at 8.3 billion in the draft budget, but in the supplementary or adopted budget they were increased to 11.8 by increasing the budget reserve from 5.3 to 8.8. The Government's explanation for the current reduction, namely that so far payments show that there will no longer be claims for reserve payments in the second half of the year, but if they do, it will postpone them in the following year, it will certainly not satisfy farmers from Prekmur who are waiting for damages for last year's drought. Many of them have not yet received decisions, except to be paid. Many disagree with the recognised amount of compensation. It is obvious that the government has decided to find the greatest budget savings right with them. In the coalition of Slovenia, of course, we do not agree with such behaviour. We know that last year's drought was estimated at 5.3 billion tolls in the adoption of the law and we want to know exactly what actually recognised compensation would be after the payments already made. We also do not agree that savings are sought by delaying the restoration and maintenance of social security institutions and by reducing social protection programmes. It should also be made clear that the reduction of spending at the Ministry of Health by 1.5 billion to finance the programmes of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute is nothing more than a transfer of the deficit to this state treasury. Other planned cuts in consumption in other ministries, such as the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, are nothing more than a transfer or withdrawal of payments in 2003. In the end, it is necessary to say that, according to the data shown in the budget rebalas, we will be tasked netly for more than we will jointly earmark for investment transfers and investments. The state budget will be remunerated for at least 139.7 billion tolars, and investments and investment transfers will be earmarked for 132.7 billion or 7 billion less after the rebalancing. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is already paying for the success story, which began with the disproportionate wage policy of the first Drnovška government in 1993. More than 70% of public financial crises have been known to have occurred around the world over the past 30 years due to disproportionate public sector salaries. This certainly applies to us, but we need to add to this the contribution of the transitional objectives of the ruling elite in Slovenia. New Slovenia will not vote in favour of the budget rebalancing, as we did not vote in favour of the draft budget, since the ruling coalition in the first, neither in the second, did it listen to either of the proposals, nor to one of the Members of the Coalition of Slovenia. We expected this proposal for a rebalancing to be a decisive step towards a long-term solution to the worrying problems of our public finances. I'm afraid that's not the case. The ruling great coalition has apparently re-decided and intends to push its head even deeper into the sand and continue to propose an inevitable face-to-face with these problems. Political responsibility is yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Now I'm going to give my word to my colleague Sponik. It is not for the first time that Article 216 provides for the participation of the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance to be involved in this point. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for the participation of the heads of two large cash registers and the Governor. Nevertheless, we discussed whether we would do it or not before the 2001 or 2002 budget was considered and decided then not to do so. If there had been a different will, it would have been quicker if it had not been so concluded in the new Rules of Procedure and Article 165 does not provide for this. If we make a different decision, we'll run things. I don't have any personal problems with that. This is how the Rules of Procedure set out. The following shall have the word of colleague Podobnik. Please. He's been followed by a colleague of Tanko's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Ministers, Secretary of State and Secretary, representatives of the government! I will present the Group's position on the 2002 budget balance. In my presentation, I will define up to three key contributions, which are set out in the Rapporteur, number 54, on the reasons for drawing up the balance, on the forecasts of economic developments for 2002 and on the measures proposed. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that economic development is the fundamental movement of all other systems in society and the country and that in particular each individual is primarily responsible for his or her position and quality of life. Nevertheless, we add, given all profits and economic performance, but also quality of life, which is not only measurable in terms of material goods. Human development indicators show that Slovenia is one of the developed countries and that we cannot complain so far about the poor services of public services intended to care for our human and material development. The latter, however, will be the fastest hit if we do not ensure that public finances provide material conditions for their development, even though many will need to be further adapted to market economy conditions. The economic theory already explained 45 years ago that long-term economic growth is the key to the so-called common factor productivity. This technical term means the efficiency of an economy based on an educated population, on the protection of intellectual property, on the effective functioning of the rule of law and on the openness of the economy. All of this is demonstrated by numerous empirical studies of economic growth. All countries in transition, including Slovenia, have faced an economic recession in the 1990s, which has also occurred several times. In the early 1990s, the rate of economic growth fell to minus 3.9% of the gross social product and later rose to a stable 4% of the gross social product. It is not difficult to understand that last year it was difficult to agree on the forecast of most domestic and foreign institutions that economic growth will fall only 2.9%. Some forecasts since the end of the 1990s have predicted Slovenia even close to 5% economic growth for 2002, and this would mean that Slovenia would become a medium-sized country of the European Union between 2010 and 2015. And last but not least, it is clear that the end of the 1990 ’ s when these predictions were written, of course no one predicted a global economic recession or the consequences of September 11. The fact is that last autumn, when the National Assembly adopted the 2002 and 2003 budget, it was clear at that time that it was impossible to count on the continuation of such favourable economic trends. At that time, the government did not accept the role of the bearer of bad news. Budget money is the most important money on the market, followed by everyone else. That's why it's important what his signals are. If the government is unduly pessimistic, such behaviour can also deter institutional investors from investing. The exact same effect may also result in completely unfounded optimism, which may also be a sign of concealing the real situation and could lead to the situation of Caesar's new clothes. Here it is necessary to say that the balance itself is nothing abnormal and unusual. And we are confident in the Group of Members that it is worth supporting. Some of the government's public financial solutions in the 1990s have fueled optimism. If I count them. The ability of the Slovenian budget to issue debt financial instruments in international capital markets, which represented a significantly cheaper budget indebtedness than borrowing credits. Last but not least, the adoption of a two-year budget has been quite a bold act, but it may have come a few years too late. The government also courageously sought solutions that enabled the use of public funds to end a rather severe economic recession in the first half of the 1990s and thus courageously stepped out of the framework of neoliberal orders shared with us by foreign financial experts and international financial institutions, although some have also ratified the State Assembly in the form of a loan contract. It is concerned, however, that the country is also increasing its deficit, both on a level playing field and along with the rebalancing to almost 3% of gross social product, and thus already endangering the fulfilment of one of the most important Maastricht criteria, similar to those of those countries in the European Union that have rotten and unhealthy public finances. The biggest problem is that budget deficits no longer provide exemplary economic growth. Already in the autumn, when our 2003 budget rebalancing is on the table, and perhaps already the 2004 draft budget, it will also be necessary to ensure a thorough reform of public finances. We are not advocating simple cuts in the state budget, but rather for its greater effectiveness. Just a few cases. According to economic theory, the State must ensure a more efficient allocation of budgetary resources and ensure that all conditions for long-term economic growth are met. Investments, whose resources are budgetary and public resources, provide only short-term growth, and we must recognise publicly, have sometimes been primarily intended to meet the pre-election promises of coalition partners in the government through the public finance system. The reform of public finances must ensure, on the expenditure side, the rationalisation of social transfers, which will mainly create new jobs. The pension growth mechanism needs to adapt to the growth of living costs. Public sector wages are still a source of negative staff selection. Therefore, one of the solutions to this problem is also in "autosoltsing", i.e. in the fact that most of the activities of public interest, which is now at least indirectly organised by the State, is left to the market. However, the social state is being implemented through direct subsidies to those who are needed to do so. Investments in the construction of transport and other infrastructure also need to be partially left to the market, but in particular investment in all types of infrastructure, including the railway and some others, and not just in the motorway programme. On the revenue side, in our opinion, it is necessary to ensure the taxation of the layer most acquired in the Slovenian transition. Tax legislation must be supplemented by a property tax, which must be designed to also allow for additional housing offers on the real estate market. In this way, the State can substantially strengthen its budgetary resources, ensure a fall in prices on the housing market, enable the creation of a labour market and develop a new segment of the capital market. The reform of the tax system should introduce a system of household savings accounts that will save up to a certain amount in various financial instruments, while other savings should be taxed, including interest, including bank interest. The reform of public finances must provide budgetary resources to the financial needs that will also arise from the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union and to NATO. We are missing comprehensive analyses and assessments that would significantly increase to answer the question of what would happen if the government continued to look for appropriate solutions to address the current issue of the excessive indebtedness of the state budget. As I have already mentioned, public finances need to ensure the development of all production factors and not just invest in those sectors that also ensure the political stability of the successive ruling coalitions. The reform of public finances must provide adequate funding for the development of education, which must reach the highest global level. We are concerned about the data from the World Bank survey published on its website, which shows the relatively poor functioning of market economy institutions in Slovenia. Additional financial resources will need to be allocated to this. It is similar with the functioning of justice, which solves major setbacks with difficulty. In our opinion, there is no solution to the additional increase in the salaries of judges and prosecutors, but to the provision of a sufficient level of their knowledge and competence. Above all, it is necessary for the State to ensure the development of the capital market and the protection of small shareholders. Sufficient economic openness can enable, through the capital market, the necessary development potential that banks cannot possibly provide to a sufficient extent. Unfortunately, there is also a lack of clear rules and institutions to implement in this area. To begin with, competent institutions should ensure adequate control over the trading of insiders and allow the creation of such a market of securities that will offer as much equal opportunities as possible, both for large and small, domestic and foreign investors. It is absolutely impossible to expect the development of a market economy without the creation of a primary economic market, which can be a strong source of funding for the Slovenian economy. The current securities market is almost exclusively based on secondary trade in privatisation shares and banking securities. Certainly does not stimulate the optimism of the decisions of one of the major banks in majority foreign ownership to withdraw from the market quotation. As I have already mentioned, it is difficult to expect a more thorough reform of public finances if such a reform does not involve a mandate in a strong government coalition. Slovenia is a legal and social state, which means that we have declared ourselves a social market economy. But we need a new social consensus to build it. The current partial negotiations of individual occupational groups or social strata with the government and employers are not developmental but are income-oriented. We create populist capitalism based on the logic of division and not on the logic of creating new values. Public finances mean only one of the sources of rent for individual professional or social groups who find or force their place in a, every time ruling coalition. A coalition capable of reforming public finances will need to take into account the examples of those countries which have succeeded in reaching a new development consensus through the Social Agreement. The so-called development lobby, if we can name it, will create an atmosphere for new investments and will create new jobs and a more competitive economy. The state of Slovenian finances has been deteriorating for several years in a row. However, we are faced with new challenges of integration into the European Union, the condition of which is sound public finances, the monetary union and thus a fixed rate. The problem of inflation, which we cannot and cannot get rid of, is also partly due to the situation in public finances. If we fail to reduce inflation below 5%, we will have serious employment and social policy problems with integration into the common European market The rebalancing of this year's budget can also be seen as a reminder to the government and the national assembly that it is necessary to start again and that the continuation of the public finances policy to date is the beginning of an economic, social and political crisis. Slovenia can quickly, instead of being a successful or even the most successful country in transition, become a sin goat and an example of missed opportunities and will find it difficult to get away from this. Finally, it is necessary for the government to recognise that it is not in an envious position.The economic situation is deteriorating, both for development and for the underdeveloped world. Countries are constantly emerging where the economic recession creates uncertain economic and political conditions. The case of Argentina is very eloquent, or perhaps the latest government crisis in Turkey, which is the result of a long-term economic recession. Under such conditions, any planning for the future is a rather ungrateful business. International financial institutions, such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, have not yet proved to be the best in this area. The Slovenian economy depends primarily on the stability of the situation in the European market. However, this situation may also be an opportunity to take a little look around here, at home, in Slovenia, and encourage domestic consumption, which will also help to solve at least some problems in the Slovenian economy and thus increase budgetary revenues. For the data shows that in the last year of Slovenia and Slovenia, our citizens are increasingly saving, which is entirely economically logical and justified by crisis situations. But this does not provide sufficient economic growth. Maybe today is the right time to tell people, buy Slovenian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, Mr Kebric, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Comrade Tank, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear ministers and representatives of the government! The Socialist Party's Group supported the government's approach to a two-year or even multi-annual budgeting, as it is clear to us what such a step means for public finances, for planning in companies or in other segments of the country. It is on this basis that it is possible to provide entities in the country with more realistic and transparent planning, and thus to direct or develop certain activities that we, as a community or a country, have assessed that they deserve special attention. On this basis, it is certainly possible to change trends and to create more equitable social and economic development. Of course, it is a prerequisite for such an approach that we have an orderly house, with documentation, and order in all rooms, from basement to attic. In short, if I apply this to finance, we must have a structured and realistic macroeconomic framework whereby we properly dimension current and future financial events, while at the same time ensuring a proper, functional and rational distribution of available revenues and their rational and controlled consumption Some media report to the opposition, but often it is also felt in the discussions of ruling coalition members in the working bodies of the National Assembly and in the National Assembly, that they do not have sufficiently qualified staff, namely economists and financiers, who could propose effective economic, financial and other measures to keep the success story alive. However, the well-intentioned and realistic proposals of the opposition often run into deaf ears, disapproval and even cynicism, even in things that, if I use a famous Slovenian term, are seen even from the plane, including from the Falcon. However, macroeconomic data and trends are not well-adapted to the objectives; the opposite must be done: the objectives must be adapted to as realistic macroeconomic forecasts as possible. It is clear that the government has adapted the macroeconomic picture for 2002 and for at least two years earlier to the wishes and needs of public consumption. In the debate on the consideration and adoption of the budget, in particular at the Committee on Finance and the plenary, our Group noted that the starting points used by the Government for the use of the budget were unrealistic and strained, that the starting points were a much more pious desire than a realistic goal. The government has taken the fullest possible estimates of macroeconomic indicators as a basis and has unfortunately failed to attach them to more moderate and, above all, more realistic assessments by some eminent experts, including the Bank of Slovenia, nor has it attracted the opposition's warnings. It is clear, however, that, on such unrealistic assumptions, the distortions and difficulties in the implementation of the budget are only increasing, and this is not linear, as we would expect, but very likely exponential, which means that corrections or rebalancies will be more frequent and, above all, significantly greater and each time more painful. It is therefore necessary to make it clear that this time's rebalancing is primarily a matter of correcting the value of macroeconomic indicators and harmonising with new ones, according to our Group of Members, still overestimated, and it is not a matter of saving and saving the budget as the government wishes to show. If it were true, then this country would not afford to purchase a car or an avioluxus that is not even afforded by a much more successful and richer country. We reiterate the need to change and abandon the practices that have been common in our former common country in similar situations if we are to avoid a public financial and general crisis. If there is indeed a desire for economic, balanced and transparent budgetary spending, the government should disclose in addition to 75 billion all other hidden matters or obligations, such as cash guarantees that it has issued to businesses in the economy over the past years, and should also properly demonstrate investments in state infrastructure, such as in the Slovenian Railways, or the acquisition of military equipment from the basic development programmes for the military. In short, we should make sure that taxpayers and Members know where we are. At the same time, we know that the government is unable to ensure compliance with a number of laws. An alibi for this is to be found each year in Zippur or in the law on the implementation of the budget. In this way, it is very difficult to talk about the real image of public finances, the actual state of obligations to beneficiaries, including those affected by the underlying accidents. In fact, the inconsistent country will achieve its greatest savings by failing to comply with the obligations laid down in the laws imposing and regulating payments for the affected population in natural disasters. The country will therefore save again in the case of the unfortunates. Nor is the actual state of public debt reliable. It is important to note, however, that it is still unclear or that there is no policy adopted on the sale of banks, nor is it known if this is really going to happen, nor is it known where the proceeds of these sales will be recorded, but above all what they will be spent on. The fate of the insurance property is also unclear and it seems that there will be more broadcasting than sales. We can also conclude that the government has legally waived not a small amount of revenue from casinos by amending the gambling law, which could contribute significantly to balancing budgetary imbalances. It has also made it possible for authorised services to make enormous profits. It's about 2 billion tolars a year that they only get by putting stickers on. Certainly, however, we are very concerned that neither the height nor the state of the tax debt nor its movement are shown anywhere. We are interested in the trend as to whether the tax debt is declining or staggering or growing, who are the debtors and what is happening to them, and in particular how the state will address this extremely large problem. This problem of the State is a special privilege for the non-payers, which they make effective use of, while at the same time, the State, on the basis of the assessment of the shift of burdens to conscientious citizens, small entrepreneurs and the rest of the economy. However, it is somehow illogical that, despite relatively high inflation and increased tax rates and the commendable increase in employment and real wage growth, there is no real response, neither on the part of consumption nor on the part of investment. Data on VAT and excise duties show significant negative deviations from government expectations, and it is even more obvious that an increasing proportion of the population is spending on food, which only reinforces the conclusion that reality is slightly different from statistical averages. It is clear from this that the number and proportion of those living on the border or below the poverty threshold is increasing and that the concentration of capital and goods in the relatively small proportion of extremely wealthy citizens, partly due to the successful adjustment to the new market situation, is being made, even more significantly due to the failure of institutions to control the capital market and the use of transitional effects and the acquisition of former common assets. However, it is quite clear that the country has about the same benefit from both categories of citizens. Both in the domestic market spend only on the essentials. Rich, large, or most of the superstandard, are used abroad, and the poor have nothing to spend. The special burden of the budget and the budgetary rebalancing represent salaries and a considerable amount of intensive employment in the state administration. Over the past ten years, the number of employees has increased by almost four times, partly justified, and this is most likely to be an integral part of the human resources policy of the ruling parties to whom taxpayers grant future staff, rather than the current real need of the country. Despite such a large increase in employment in the state administration, the costs of contract work and copyright contracts are also increasing. The budget and the balance of the budget note the absence of local and regional policies, which is reflected in the growing disparities between cities and rural areas. Therefore, we cannot talk about the equitable development of Slovenia. This imbalance triggers migration flows and pressure on cities and causes rural degradation. Inadequate budgetary policy also results in inadequate spatial policy and harmful spatial movements for Slovenia. The municipalities, but not the various para-national institutions, are the only guarantee for local and regional development, and the country, according to our assessment, provides them with little or no funds for their operation and for their obligations and mandated tasks, and in particular for investments and development tasks. In particular, the lack of funds in the congregations does not bring about the unification of the congregations, since if they do not have the emergency needs, there is no possibility of integration and even less so of unification. Social policy is also quite chaotic. Thus, those who have a lot of movable and immovable but "right" aid and transfers are entitled to various forms of aid and transfer in connotations, but very little or nothing are obtained by those who are at the border of censorship or who are only slightly above it. This crowd of beneficiaries is usually employed in companies with financial and developmental problems and the government should pay particular attention to the verification and presentation of family budgets, amend the criteria for division and ensure that the regular working relationship of penalties is not a good thing. However, we would like to draw attention to another problem, the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. In practice so far, everything has happened too often that the orders have been executed and passed through the prescribed procedures, directly broadcasting. The amounts of illegality found were not very small, but the method of distribution of orders allows for abuse; however, it is noted that the government is quite uneven in sanctioning irregularities in this area. In the Group of Members, we have drawn up some amendments that we would like to see some of the budget lines revised in the context of procedural options. I expect you to support them this time when the situation is quite clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u11	Thanks, buddy Tanko. The next one will have the word of his colleague, Kebrich, followed by his colleague Horvat. Comrade Kebrich, you have the floor behind him, Comrade Horvath. While you're coming for the speaker stage, let me announce to my colleague Horvato my colleague, Comrade Pečet, and colleague of the grandson. This will exhaust the presentations of the parliamentary groups. The first to have a word among the Members will be Comrade Kelemina. Now you have your word, mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! Dear Ministers, especially Minister of Finance, Mr Rop, to whom my implementation will be directed on behalf of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. There is a question of rebalancing ahead of us, and the answer is yes or no. However, in order to decide which of these two words is necessary, it is necessary that we receive from the Minister certain answers, which have already been presented by my predecessors, the speakers, and which I myself will put in place on behalf of our Group of Members. The fact is that there is a budget rebalance ahead of us with certain justifications and explanations. In doing so, we have our opinion, and we believe that the reasons for drawing up the balance of the State budget for 2002 are three main points. Firstly, the estimates of macroeconomic indicators for 2001 were quite different from those of the statistics on the achievement achieved, which were only available to us this year. The second reason was the major changes in the structure of the final consumption of the social gross product. And thirdly, the 2002 Spring Report, where economic trends estimates for this year are corrected by navdsol and down again. We believe that the budget revenues in 2002 will be around 40 billion below the forecast. A new situation will be addressed by the State by balancing the budget's expenditure with the expected revenue of three types of measures. More accurate assessment of possible non-taxable resources, reduction of budget users' spending rights and an increase in the projected budget deficit. The only increase in the truth to be kind, since I am always honest, and I also say that with regard to the expenditure side, the increase in the additional transfer to the pension register of 4.66 billion dollars, if we also take into account the increase under the applicable budget, then it is up to 9 billion additional funds for these purposes compared to the budget adopted. However, I think that the emphasis is on this and it is right that this is the case because I read in the newspaper days ago that poverty in Slovenia has risen by no less than 0.3 per cent, especially since the proportion of pension households in this poverty is very high and I therefore justify and respect that this item has risen on the expenditure side. The total revenue will thus reach around 1.194.5 billion tolls, 29 billion less than the projected budget revenue, which is affected by the lower implementation of budget revenues by the end of 2001 and the lower estimates of the growth of key macroeconomic aggregates. The overall estimated budget revenue outturn has been around 36 billion, partly offset by some non-tax revenue. The country's expenditure will be reduced by 14.4 billion tolars and the country's projected expenditure in the proposal for a rebalancing will be 1.334 billion. The difficulty of reducing spending rights lies in three sets of economic purposes, reserves, expenditure on goods and services and the purchase and construction of basic funds. Mr. Minister, we have the government's eyewitnesses and three or four. A rebalancing would not be necessary if the government drew up this year's budget on more realistic grounds. Secondly, wage growth in the public sector is now somewhat manageable or slightly lower, but this increase in public sector wages has one consequence, an increase in inflation and a deterioration in the situation of Slovenian exporters and a decrease in economic growth. In our opinion, inflation and its consequences are still quite high and, last but not least, it does not allow for the transparency of comprehensive data on the state of public finances. These are our eyewitnesses to the government that would not be needed if timely action were taken. As a child, I was taught at the time of the world’s greatest crisis, in 1933, with the password of the affiliates “stone to the stone palace, grain to the grain of cake”, but unfortunately in those days it was very rare on the table. So I'm going to turn to the spending side first, because the older people are more inclined, because life has taught us to save and turn money as much as we have and spend it as we can, and on the other hand, we're looking at what can be saved. So, it's a waste site. Public procurement. Public procurement is of great economic importance and is one of the key levers for faster economic development. There is a total of 300 billion budget money in our country each year, so it is very important that the rules of the game are clear and transparent for subscribers and tenderers, while rational spending of money must also be ensured. In practice, however, marital impossibility, inadequacy, and incomprehensibility often lead to abuse. It is true, however, that this legislation is being amended and we hope that in the future there will be a better, more transparent order in these public procurements, if I say simply, by people. There are also many procurement irregularities on the day, although at a time when we have to tighten the belt considerably to the state finances, we would expect the government or the ministries to ensure greater clarity in the use of public money and perhaps save more. The fact is, many times there are some controversial choice of bidders, but I will not repeat matters because there would be a lot of savings if they behave rationally like a government plane, 100 cars, but I will say the following. Construction of a central cleaning plant, project of regional design for spatial development of Zasavje, construction and more. I've taken this by means of public information. In particular, the following. Denationalization. Inadequate knowledge of officials - in many cases the rules have not been properly applied in denationalisations, and this is the fact that this official did not know and is not properly qualified. Or "might" even, perhaps, under quotations, sometimes deliberate miscalculation of compensation in denationalisation procedures leads to incorrect calculation of compensation often in favour of beneficiaries and, of course, to the detriment of the State. In addition to the compensation, it is often the case that the beneficiary receives all the original assets recovered. [[Summary by Work since 29.5. this year]] . The Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests loses not only a lot of land due to miscalculations but the compensation fund pays too much compensation and the country is unduly damaged. So let's go to the other side a little bit, to the income line. The revenues, as we gathered from your performance and also the documentation, were incorrectly planned. Tax revenues - and we feel slightly differently when we have obtained reliable data from the tax administration, I have them here, namely, the tax administration notes that in the financial year 2001, which was the basis for the draft budget revenue for this year, the following: it has collected 1,382,843 million SIT revenues, which is 2% more than planned and 12% more than in the previous financial year. Transfer revenue increased most than in the previous financial year [[index in 2001 compared to 2000 is 130]] and taxes on property [[the index is even 124]] . In this group, the most important VAT, where inter-month dynamics and spending patterns have changed significantly: domestic spending is lower than anticipated; consumption is the benefit of goods with a lower tax rate; VAT returns for exporters and others have increased. The amount of tax collected remains unchanged. Due to these changes, the net impact of VAT was only SIT 110.821 million, which is 12% less than planned and 6% less than in the previous year. This is because it is in direct relation to this balance, with the data that are the basis for this year's budget, to the extent that we accept this balance. Tax debt. The tax debt increased by about 10 % between January and December 2001. I ask the Ministry: "Did you take action in the government on this tax administration? How did this happen, and how did it happen?" Let me just give you a few details. For the accounting debt recorded, social security contributions, representing as much as 37.3 per cent or 34 thousand 602 million SITs, are paramount. Of which 71.2 per cent or 24 000 836 million SIT for the Retirement and Disability Insurance Office. In 2001, the most enforcement decisions were issued for unpaid social security contributions. Out of the 31 000 742 million SITs, as the monetary value of all issued decisions, only 11 000 633 million SIT have been settled, that is to say, by 20 000 109 million SIT less. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about that certain services are "unable to be sufficiently specific, too determined, and they just don't know how to handle these things properly." Durs, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, transmitted all this to the paying agency in 2001 with all the measures, the decisions on compulsory settlement. With reminders for payment of unpaid liabilities, it managed to recover only 39 000 282 SIT, which means that there remain as many as 108 000 853 million SITs outstanding. If we knew all this a little bit better, but I'm not a utopian to expect 100 percent realisation, then this rebalancing wouldn't be necessary at all this year. The tax office is not effective enough. The problem is also the inadequacy and inadequacy of tax legislation. As a result, it is often too late or too late to pay. There are also many tax evasions, as is the case in the recent case of the area of Maribor, as is the case with 83 million SIT tax evasions. Why am I saying this? If we settle all of this, not only will the charging of the state budget on the income side be more appropriate, but we will also prove that we are indeed a rule of law. I will not talk about certain institutions of civil society, such as the Red Cross, sports societies, where there is a lot of irregularity, where large debts are also at the expense of taxes and contributions.If we do this, citizens will have more confidence in our country of law. Irregularity of real estate records - due to unregulated property records, complicated procedures and long deadlines for entering the land register, creeps the state money out of hand. Only a third of the property is taxed, and the tax industry continues to crack down on a number of complaints - summed up by the newspaper Finance, May 29, 2002. Nor is non-recognition of black-grossing, non-legalisation of those where possible is not only concealment, but a real possible income in the state budget. Talk to your ministerial colleague, Mr Kopač, and you will see how much this is and how much of this title could flow into the state budget. Lawmaking, non-implementation and non-implementation of the rules are proof of non-conformity that the calculation of cadastral income does not always include income from leased surfaces in cases where the book is actually in the grassland book, which is processed and produced by other cultures, and you do not have that income that should be derived from a culture that is planted on a particular land. What about the damages? We hear and agree that in Prekmurje, which is very close to me, they have not yet received adequate payments or they do not agree with the amount of compensation that has been estimated. However, I stress this: "Is it fair that compensation will also be paid to those who have more than one hectare because it is a boundary that deals with a particular culture? If you were wicked, you might say it's a hobby, but in an open word, it's just that they don't survive it, but it's a side activity. Since real estate is claimed for all the high costs, we hope that the new Real Estate Act will regulate the situation and that the country will have more control over the land book, and thus on the potential revenues. A particular problem is working in black, without paying taxes and contributions. This harms not only the state, but also those workers. In doing so, it is necessary to distinguish those who have such and different social security insurance from those who earn certain incomes and thereby resolve their social security. Mr. Minister or your colleagues, take a look at the Maribor market once and send them there and you'll see a lot of things. Also, Darsa’s promise to improve the toll system by making daily road users equally burdened has not yet come true everywhere. Thus, for example, a toll station in the town of Vogrsko, on the Vipava-Vrtojba route, is not yet built today, which is just something - perhaps it was - but this record is prepared at this time. Let's just drop it. Well, Minister, what about the action of your services in the field of the grey economy? Not to mention the cases that have already been snorkeled not only by sparrows on the roof, but they are widely spoken of. I already told your predecessor in the previous term in this room that money is lying on the road. I've also listed cases. However, the Ministry of Finance must organise not only actions but also a system for the collection of this money. For this you also have appropriate services such as inspection and so on. I'm also reading you some shit-faced legislation. We read in the daily newspaper how they know how to play this. It is up to you to provide us with such legislation that they will not be able to fake it and to become rich at the expense of the state. What about the author's fees? Over the past two years, contributions to authors' fees and contract works in ministries have increased by as much as 30% about the government, despite the fact that employment has also increased. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence are the most prominent among the ministries. Together, in all ministries, the author's fees and employment contracts have increased by SIT 31 000 173 million and SIT 212 000,219 million in the last two years. These expenses are often questionable. That is, on the fact that the Ministry can still employ these people who have the right knowledge, for which you are now paying for authors' fees and contracts of work instead. I can tell you people, but not by names, because this is the confidentiality of personal data that already had a contract in their pocket for further work. I do not think that this is fair and moral to other citizens. Non-trading income. Like concessions. In the award of concessions without a tax tender, they sometimes exclude the best bidder, and the country which would receive higher concessions through public tenders is disadvantaged. Example of the award of a concession for the management of state forests, as summarized by Finance, 17 March 2002. However, public tenders are to ensure that the State provides as much income as possible or that it pays at least for a given public service. Social security contributions represent half of all tax revenues, which is 50.7%. According to a report by the tax administration, social security contributions for 2001 were paid at the same rate of contribution as the year before and amounted to 701 billion I will speak round or 1% more in the planned annual plan and 12% more than the contributions paid in the financial year 2000. Contributions for pension and disability insurance were thus realised at 452 billion last year, 12% more than a year earlier. Payments from health insurance contributions amounted to 242 billion, which is 13% more. I have the latest information, from the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, which is tanning the income side. On May 31, 2001, unearned contributions from natural persons amounted to SIT 579 thousand and 681 million. By comparison: this year these are already owed to 22,964,700 roundly, this is about a billion 986 or 9% more. Why do we not recover these contributions? Then a transfer such as the budget for this pension fund would not be necessary. This year is compared to last year's [[for the day, 31 May]] in legal persons, it is a matter of a slight improvement, since last year legal persons owed a billion 75 million per year and 778 per year. However, this amount is still far too high. What about the recovery of financial penalties and the costs of the procedure? According to credible concrete data from the Senate, the situation is also important and - I will say - inappropriate and could also be particularly helpful to the income side. Recovery of fines and procedural costs. In 2001, according to a Senate report on violations of the Republic of Slovenia, the enforceable cases of unpaid fines amounted to EUR 14 billion 581 thousand. The recovery was sent for 4 billion 508 million I'm going to shorten the numbers. Only 971 million were recovered. It's a very big difference. All cases sent, or 6% of all enforceable cases, unpaid fines. It was no better to pay for the costs of the procedure. The enforceable unpaid costs of the procedure amounted to a billion 569 million. However, only 130 million or percentages were recovered: 8.3%. You could still list it. However, I conclude with the following: first of all, make sure that what is paid by our laws to you, the executive authorities, is ordered to execute. Then we will have the right to control, as the legislative body that adopts these laws, how these laws and our decisions are being implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Comrade Kebrich! A colleague of Horvath, a colleague of Peca, has the floor. The presentation of the parliamentary groups will be concluded by my colleague Vnučec. Here you go, Comrade Horvath!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Mr President, distinguished ministers, secretary of state, representatives and representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will not have a report on economic policy and public finances. That there will be no misunderstanding, this is not an observation of colleagues who have spoken on behalf of the groups before me, and have said many very rich thoughts, which, in our next work, will certainly be of particular benefit in the consideration of economic policy and the budget for the coming and coming years. This only explains why when I present the position of the Group of Members of the United Nations, I will be relatively brief when I present it. I also personally believe that it is necessary to stick to the agenda, this is the balance of the budget for this year. This is the order of magnitude and is about 1% of budget expenditure. I think and allow myself to begin by saying that the inflation of words does not contribute to the higher revenue of the budget, to the greater added value and to greater rationality. Moreover, if we spend too much time, more than necessary, we can contribute to greater expenditure and this is often unproductive. Members and Members of our Group will support the proposed balance. We believe that, in view of the Law on Public Finances and in view of the changes in macroeconomic developments and in view of the lower revenues, it is therefore normal and correct for the Government to prepare and submit to the National Assembly on a timely basis the balance of the budget. In doing so, when I myself, on behalf of the Group of Members, presented my views on the adoption of the budget for this year and next year, I said at the end of my debate that it was very likely that it would be necessary to accept the balance of this budget. I must admit that the scale of the rebalancing is a reduction in expenditure by around 1%, that this is a relatively small intervention in the budget, which is satisfactory and good. This budget reduction intervention is both substantive and complex so that the important economic and social policy objectives adopted by the budget adopted will not be affected. It's really not nice to see a deficit increase. However, I do not think that this deficit is dramatic, especially if we take into account the reasons for it when it comes to settling accounts largely over the years. Of course, it would be worrying if we expected this trend to continue - which I believe will not happen. This, of course, depends on many of us, except the government. The rebalancing debate must take into account the very uncertain situation in the international economic environment. I have the impression that in the debates we have had so far on the balance, whether we want or not, they are underestimated. The balance sheet or budget was adopted and implemented at a time when the situation was actually uncertain, the forecasts were very different and varied from the institute to the institute, from an international organisation to an international organisation, from a central bank to a central bank. With a comment, of course, the forecasts of growth in central banks are generally a little more conservative, which is already in the nature of things. It is necessary to establish, in particular because of objectivity, that we cannot talk about any major error or some error in the forecasts that were the basis for the adoption of the budget. The correction down by 0.3% is relatively small. If we compare this - just yesterday, I was looking at the latest data for the European Union, where they are also correcting. The last correction is also correction of 0.2% for the European Union. Then I think that 0.3 correcting down here is actually not enough, and it shows that the forecasts were not so very wrong. The fact is that these corrections - I would not repeat what has already been mentioned in the debate, but, in particular, in the European Union or in - exactly those days when we were together with colleagues, Battelli and Puck, in Berlin and listened to a number of discussions on the forecasts for further economic developments this and next year. There, too, we see that the differences in forecasts are great and that changes in these forecasts are also constant. What is essential, and what is also being done with this balance, is that implementation of the budget is as much possible, despite the fact that it is a large part of a fixed adjustment to economic movements. That's what the government is doing with a proposal. I think it's right that we accept that. As we have referred to representatives of the International Monetary Fund several times today, I should quote them myself. In fact, when they were here at the time of the adoption of the budget and we asked them how they assessed the economic forecasts, they said that the only uncertainty was over and that it was essential for us to adopt the budget and our conduct that we were flexible to adapt to the actual movements that would arise. But no one could, and they confirmed themselves at that time, to predict very accurately what the movements would be like. As I explain our position, I would like to draw attention to the lack of consistency and objectivity that is readily or unwittingly present with some of my colleagues and colleagues. It's not an obvious conclusion, it's an easy conclusion. On the contrary, double conduct and debate. On the one hand, there is a criticism of excessive spending in public finances, particularly in the state budget. These same people, when we discuss individual laws or programmes, are generously proposing supplements to increase entitlements, which in fact mean more resources on the expenditure side of the budget, and they are making good proposals to facilitate various taxes, which, of course, means reducing the revenue of the budget. Let me conclude by waiting for us immediately after the holidays, I hope that the government will come in good time with an economic policy proposal and, with the draft budget for the future or for the next two years, a great opportunity to focus all our knowledge, all our energy and political will on preparing and adopting the best possible budget for the coming period. However, I would like to draw attention to something else. Indeed, the budget is not only determined when we discuss it and adopt it in the national assembly, but throughout the year when we adopt individual laws that normally set the size of the budget. We know that most of the budget is fixed. This is due to our conduct over the year when we adopt laws by assigning or determining rights and other obligations, which then burden the expenditure of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u15	Thank you, colleague of Feri Horvat, for the position of the Group of Members. The Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group is next. The position will be given by my colleague, Sasha Peca. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u16	Your Honors are here! I don't believe in the stability of public finances when Minister Tone Rop says that. I don't believe in the work of Minister Toneto Rope, because the results of his work are ahead of us today. Anyway, any one of us in this room wants to show that 40 billion Slovenian tolars is a negligible amount, I'll say he's bluffing. Anyway, anyone will say that the finance minister is a high-quality minister, a minister who improves the public finances in this country, I'll say he's bluffing. The results are here today. Claims on the quality of the Ministry of Finance's work could be made fairly at the moment when we adopted the 2002 budget and 2003 budget. We didn't know what would happen at the time. The majority of Members naively believed in the quality of the budget for 2002 and 2003. This naivety is manifested today when we face a rebalancing or a proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002. Even this year, we will face the same issue, only with the mark for 2003. At the same time, we forget what the purpose of the budget is. The purpose of the budget is the game of the state. The country, however, plays an active role in the economy. It comes to the economic field without being called and dictated at a pace. On the one hand, it promotes economic operators and, on the other hand, it blocks them. If the National Assembly adopts the financial guidelines of conduct, the budget should be even two years in advance and the finance minister has assured us six months ago how this is done, how this is done positively and how the economists will be happy. Four months from now, it comes with changes. We will not only feel these changes when we are here today in the context of the debate, but especially what is the worst that even lives on from this budget. It's an economy. We did not support the 2002 and 2003, budget of that singing budget by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Minister of Rope in the Slovenian National Party. We also did not support the new taxes. We do not want the people of Slovenian politics to be remembered in the 2000-2004 term merely and exclusively as tax collectors. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of the year, on the proposal of the Finance Minister, because he was unable to find new revenues or to limit expenditure, we increased taxes in this country. Today, however, the Minister of Finance and some Members ask themselves why there is no personal consumption. Doesn't that make sense? If the country increases taxes beyond the critical limit, what we did with value added tax with both rates, when we increased them on the other hand with some of the costs involved in health care or health taxes. The finance minister then claimed that this was the best financial achievement in the period of Slovenia alone - that we had adopted a budget for two years. So that we can all tie ourselves to him. Does it make sense to adopt a budget for more than a year if we know that we will change it in the course of the current year if we know that we will change or begin to dictate a different rate of behaviour for all those entities that depend on public finances? It doesn't make sense! Whose deceiving, or to whom, is this deceiving, of a financial minister? I do not believe that it is necessary for the Minister of Finance to deceive the National Assembly, because in fact you always do what he suggests. If he says, "Let's give new taxes," you'll support that. If he suggests this to you, you will support this without considering whether this makes sense for the Slovenian country. The results are here today. According to our belief, or our assessment, the Slovenian National Parties' assessment, the purpose of the budget for 2002 and 2003, solely in the confusion of public finances, in order to ensure that the political elites are all aware of what they have enriched, precisely at the expense of the lack of transparency of public finances, in order to sell the latest assets sold by Minister Rob through the budget, banks: Slovenian banks established by constitutional law and whose negative obligations from the past we have transferred citizens and citizens, Minister Rob, despite the 1994 decision of the National Assembly - and this decision has been announced that the privatisation of banks will require a special privatisation law that will take account of the participation of citizens - it has done so through the budget. So the budget isn't just what we're looking at, these numbers. The budget is new taxes and sales or sales of Slovenian property. Throughout the budget, it hides enormously, especially what it will bring to some political elites, not Slovenia, not Slovenia, not Slovenia and Slovenia. This is this sad story, according to our assessment of the inadequacy of Minister Tonet Rope. A minister who plays with public finances, a minister who plays with over 1,000 billion Slovenian tolars. Why? Because of the individual elites. So we can sell everything we have. As soon as we sell out or sell out or sell out the National Assembly, we sell out everything, it's not made transparent. A few years from now, that's what we're going to talk about. It will talk about all the nonsense that the Slovenian Parliament has done. Why? Because you do not find it worth listening to what decisions are made by the National Assembly. Because you are prepared to take over all the acts and all the proposals of the laws offered to us by the Finance Ministry. One of the representatives before me even said that this was not the moment to talk about the economic situation. Yeah, when is it? When is the time in the National Assembly to talk about the economic situation? He's gone because you don't want to have this moment. Because you want to lead the country by the same hoof as you have so far - so no one will know on what grounds you privatized, what you sold, and things like that. It's less transparent, it's easier to run your policy. The policy, which will take this country, the Republic of Slovenia, and citizens and citizens, Slovenia and Slovenia, to a place where we will no longer be able to get together, where we will no longer have anything to collect. We won't have our own resources to create anything else. Everyone will be dealing with mediations that will be established abroad. At the time of adoption of the budget for 2002 and 2003, the Minister of Finance gave a speech on the quality of the budget. Such a budget, which will positively and synergistically reflect in all areas affecting citizens and citizens. The quality of the budget is visible today through economic growth in our country. The budget for the intervention of many longer than we can imagine through budget lines and relative values. Once again, it is necessary to stress what the National Assembly has always deliberately forgotten that the State is the main actor and that what we decide, on a proposal from the Ministry, is rarely on our own, because we are putting few laws into the procedure because we are not the executive branch of the government to bring the country where it is. We're in a deep minus right now. We are currently in the process of selling everything in order to provide financial resources for the current existence. In his opening statement or when reading the explanation of the proposal for the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 he also stated in the Rapporteur that the reasons for the preparation of the national budget are three or three main points. Firstly, it is not possible to anticipate developments in the macroeconomic field. This is, in short, that in 2001, when the budget was being prepared, there was no distinction between the plan and the implementation. Let me quote the part of the Minister's debate, which was very similar today when the budget was even adopted: "The government has prepared the complementary proposals on the basis of an updated assessment of economic developments." Already there was an updated assessment of economic trends, and today again it says that there was no correct assessment. Next: "The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis has participated in the preparation of the budget, which estimates that 3.7% of economic growth will be achieved, which is significantly less than planned, 4.4 than in 2002, for which 4.2% of economic growth was planned. In a situation of declining economic activity, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to conduct anti-cyclical economic policy more actively, a policy that will promote both domestic, economic and investment activities and increase competitiveness in the economy." What's in it for us today? We have now heard what the 2002 budget was based on. Six months later, we see that none of this is true. Because today it tells us that it was impossible to assess or that the basis on which the budget was drawn was still impossible to calculate. So when is he bluffing? Was it then bluffing by Minister Robb or is he bluffing today? I'm guessing he was bluffing at the time, bluffing today, and bluffing in the future. Furthermore, Minister Rob must have pointed out to him in this finding who helped to reduce the share of the consumption of gross domestic product in the structure of the gross domestic product. At the beginning of the year, we taxed the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in a new way. This has reduced their purchasing power or the amount of money that was intended for consumption. The National Assembly had to be aware of this at the time of the decision of Minister Rob. If Minister Rob finds out and fears today that we have reduced personal consumption, the citizens have done so because of the coercion that Minister Rob has just pushed or forced them to vote by the National Assembly. At that time, when preparing the budget, the government decided to raise value added tax, which is probably why we all forget because it was naively expected, for the naive reason of Minister Rope, that if we raise taxes, we would get more government revenues. The basic economic theory, which is marked in macroeconomic theory by “La Ferje” theory, speaks of the need to be careful when raising taxes, because before they want to, higher taxes turn in a negative direction and lead to lower revenues, at a time when tax rates reach the limit when people are running out of consumption. We've gone way beyond that in Slovenia. But what does that mean for the future? What does this mean for the development of our country? Nothing good. It just means negative. This means that the country does not only have the wrong monetary policy led by Finance Minister Tone Rop, but also has the wrong fiscal policy, which is also governed by Finance Minister Tone Rop. What does that mean? That Finance Minister Tone Rop is running the wrong policy. You must find it very funny to raise taxes in our country. But I will leave this to the Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Minister Rop further notes that this year's price developments and estimates by the end of the year indicate that the inflation achieved will be higher than anticipated when the budget was adopted. Of course, inflation will be higher as the country does not have an anti-inflation programme. The country didn't want to say anything about inflation. These were Mr Drnovska's words when he answered one of the questions he asked when he said that when we talk about inflation, we only encourage inflation. Since Mr Drnovšek has “banned” the talk on inflation, we do not have an anti-inflation programme. Today, you say in the budget that inflation is responsible for everything. As the main culprit for the advent of inflation, the government modestly says that it is not her fault that inflation appears here, but it is only the situation in the global energy market and still the consequences of September 11. Gentlemen and ladies from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, from the Ministry of Finance, in the Slovenian National Party, we find more and more that if it did not happen on 11 September, in whom would we find the culprit? Nothing is easier than guilt to pass on because of your own incompetence to someone else. Minister Rop proposes the following measures [[are indicated on page 11 of the Rapporteur under number three of Rome]] . Starts: "In view of the new estimates of macroeconomic developments by the end of the year, the total budget revenue in 2002 will be around 40 billion below the forecast." He found out after the first four months of the year. This means that Finance Minister Tone Rop made a daily mistake for 250 million Slovenian tolars. No economic operator in that country shall make such a mistake, as the Minister of Finance does. The economic operator shall be sanctioned for the damage to the offence or loss it has committed to that country. The Minister of Finance, Tone Rop, was awarded 250 million Slovenian tolars a day for his calculations. Not once has any political party come forward with a desire or request for the discharge of this Minister and thus a solution to the area of public finances. Minister Rop further notes that the new situation can be resolved by the State in two ways: firstly, the loss of revenue is replaced by a new debt; secondly, the budget expenditure is balanced by the expected revenue. The Slovenian government has not even thought for a moment about choosing a third path, that is, reducing spending, spending the country. This is the same country that creates new fleets, new fleets and its new marble dwellings during the period of critical public finances, especially in Ljubljana. Ladies and gentlemen, with only a different fleet of 40 billion would there be a deficit. Don't talk about the global crisis that caused this deficit. When it is said that we have a choice or a rebalancing or a indebtedness of the country, let me say that during the period from January of this year and 15.1.2002, when the RS bond was issued 28 to 17.6., when the current RS year 41 was issued, this country committed to 230 billion Slovenian tolars through the bonds. For 230 billion Slovenian Tolars, this country has committed itself without at least the National Assembly knowing about it. Because the government's decision to issue the bonds is sufficient to hold citizens and citizens accountable. For 230 billion Slovenian Tolars, we were in charge anyway. Minister Rob says it's still an option of debt, but he won't choose this option because the debt is not right. Otherwise, Minister Rob will say that through these bonds are covered, debts arising from previous bonds. But, gentlemen and ladies! We are increasingly moving away from the fact that the state or government should follow legal principles and be at about the same level as the economy or entrepreneurship in our country. So, if it goes bad, something has to change, not on the neck, on the nose, to continue with some tactics. If an economic operator were to hire new and new loans to get out of the crisis, where would he get to? This would not be a successful economic operator. Therefore, Slovenia is not a successful country. We bluff and cast sand into the eyes of citizens and citizens, which I think is the worst. We are also throwing sand into the eyes of the European Union, which I assume you all think is the worst. The new bonds are marked RS 28, 29 until the continuation of the number 41, amounting to 230 billion Slovenian tolars. Now calculate yourself because I believe that everyone knows the final amount of rebalancing how much this year alone this country has re-indebted, how much interest will be paid, how long will these interest be burdened by future Slovenian tribes and for what purpose. I'm sure only Minister Rop knows. It is said that there is some concern among the proposed measures about the Maastricht criteria or, according to the words at home, the convergence criteria, from which Minister Rob cites only two, because only two are concerned in his opinion. The convergence criteria are five and are the conditions for accession to the monetary union. Slovenia does not meet any of them, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says it fulfils them. That's what the National Assembly is going to see. These criteria take place in two areas, as mentioned, and in the field of inflation, interest and public debt. The last measure referred to by the Finance Minister through which we will increase stability in public finances or put public finances on the green branch is for the first time an accurate assessment of possible additional non-taxable resources. It follows that the Minister of Finance has finally come to his senses and has seen that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia should no longer be subject to additional tax burdens on the structure of revenue under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. No one around us has such a relationship, no local community in the Republic of Slovenia. No one, except the perfect dictator, would dare to appear before the people with a program to cover all his ideas with taxes and with nothing else, not with the property that this country has, not with the sale of this property. As you know, we donated some banks for a while. How will the Minister of Finance assess the possibility of additional non-taxable resources if this country has never worked in this area before? The relationship between tax and tax revenues should - for the size of Slovenia with gross social product and the number of inhabitants, be 7 to 3 and not 9 to 1, such as the proposal of Minister Ropa. Also a speech on the perspective of the Republic of Slovenia. I personally assess that the Republic of Slovenia does not have a perspective. Unfortunately, as long as there are such important chairs in the government as the Finance Ministry, there are people who are prepared to do nothing to push this country and public finances into the flood. Back in '93, we were only in this country through three categories. [[Interest, wages and social transfers]] Loaded at 32%. We had these three categories last year. [[interest, wages and social transfers,]] budget charged by 68%. Ladies and gentlemen! This is information that shows that the budget and public finances in this country are not set in a development direction. This country has gone completely wrong in the area of public finances. Mr. Chairman! Since I have a few more things and it's one o'clock, I suggest I continue after [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u17	I would also suggest and ask if you could shorten and close your part of the debate just before the break. Please, if you'll continue!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u18	One of the wealth of our country is property, which has been much more in the past than it is today. For the loss of this wealth, which people have created over the decades, it is again and solely the fault of Finance Minister Tone Rop. Let me draw attention here to the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank and the procedures before the sale of the New Maribor Credit Bank. The Nova Slovenija Group has already talked about this and that we have nowhere to be expected to spend these funds. On the other hand, there is no indication of what we have accomplished. How much will be the sale of Slovenian banking, which has a synergistic impact on development and economic movements, on the domestic clientele and those whose area is covered by the said bank! We also have nothing calculated. Public finances in their narrow and broader form are acting as a negative element in our country. They're acting like what we're supposed to be doing as a primary task. In the Slovenian National Party, it is estimated that the actions of Finance Minister Toneto Ropa this time are clearly visible for the first time, 40 billion deficits, secondly, in the sale of Slovenian assets strong enough for the Minister of Finance to decide on his own and to give up such a difficult task as managing the Ministry of Finance if it is not a match. The fact that she's not a part of it is evident today. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the draft budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u19	Thank you. I hereby end the 17th item of the agenda and the general debate. We'll continue at 2.30 p.m. Thank you so much for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u20	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives and representatives of the Government! We continue with the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 21st extraordinary meeting of 11.7.2002 France Tsukati from 3 p.m. onwards, Janez Podobnik from 17:00 p.m., Janko Weber and Ivan Kebrič for the afternoon part of the session. Since we're going to be present, I'd like to ask your attention. We're picking up the presence! There are 51 of us present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia will be presented by Mr Bogomir Vnučec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u21	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister Tone Rop, distinguished other members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Before I speak on the proposal for a budget rebalancing, I must go back and point out that we have legitimate concerns in the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party in the past year when the budget for 2002 and 2003 is adopted. A two-year budget has been adopted. The main reason for its adoption was transparency and the provision of financial flows for investments, and now after a good half year, the budget balance for 2002 and 2003 was at the table of the 2002 and 2003 Budgets in a joint text we then objected to, since we have already warned that it is too ambitious and unrealistic. We have also proposed a number of additions to the budget, which unfortunately were not taken into account, nor have we warned about excessive expectations mainly on the revenue side. It was only this year that the government "swerved" by trying to come out of the loop with a proposal for a rebalancing, by reducing certain budget lines and by additional indebtedness, which is unacceptable at the time of irrational budgetary spending, such as the purchase of a government aircraft. The government stated in its explanation of the law that during the first six months of this year there were major changes in global economic movements and this would also have an impact on the economy in Slovenia. None of the economic indicators: economic growth, inflation, exports, the level of investment envisaged at the time of adoption of the budget will be achieved, which is now clear. The proposed rebalancing states that revenues will be lower than projected for about 29 billion dollars, and almost 15 billion will be saved by the government by reducing budget spending and almost equal amounts will increase the debt, which will increase the debt to almost 140 billion. This is already a poor 3% of gross domestic product, which is also the upper limit on debt under the Maastricht criteria, and if the government fails to reduce debt and inflation below 4%, Slovenia's inclusion in the European Union will certainly not be easy in 2004. That austerity measures should be cut down and that the budget is too optimistic, we have warned before adoption. Although the government had slightly reduced its economic growth forecasts last October, despite an increase in value added tax and excise duty on petrol, alcohol and tobacco, it was unable to provide planned revenues. Moreover, by increasing tax rates, it has also triggered inflationary pressures. The proposal for a balance sheet will reduce resources for all budgetary users, except for rare exceptions. The only increase in budget revenues is an increase of 4.6 billion tolar's pension allowance. This raised the share of pension funding to 212 billion tolars. The fact that the pension reform and its implementation are a serious problem already states that as early as 1995, only 3% of the budget was allocated to the pension fund, and this year this share is already 17%. In the fact that at least 11 billion more debt is still in the health insurance office, it is clear that the increasing burden of pension financing threatens the state’s public financial system. According to some data, 88% of budget expenditure is legally predetermined. These include mainly salaries, then pension transfers and social transfers. Therefore, the government can only save on projects that are not legally defined. These are the most frequent investments and subsidies, but they represent a development part of the budget and bring long-term progress, development and economic growth. How important it is for Slovenia to invest in knowledge, the government has finally found out and has not reduced the projected expenditure in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in the proposal for a rebalancing. However, it is more worrying to see a reduction in investment funds in hospitals. This raises the question whether it is really impossible to carry out construction works at the ORL clinic or whether it is only a matter of transferring liabilities to the following financial year. It is also incomprehensible to reduce resources for the employment of trainees and other professions in health care if we know what a lack of doctors and other staff is affecting our health care. It is also worrying to reduce the projected expenditure at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, where the government is reducing budgetary resources for the implementation of social protection programmes for the disabled, the unemployed and the elderly. That the balance is needed is a fact. It is also true that the rebalancing is the result of poor planning and the domination of the pursuit of narrow political objectives and the creation of false optimism when the budget is adopted. In the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenian Party, we will not support the rebalance, as this would mean that we support additional borrowing and voicing to a wider problem in the world and those who are even worse off. This is not the right way and is a bad way for future budgets, but especially for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. Before I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament, I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Mag. Anton Rope. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I think that many of the statements that have been made, however, require some additional clarifications which were not specifically highlighted in the introductions, so that I propose that, in the following terms, some clarifications on the general comments of the proposed budget should be made, that, of course, the Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis, who prepared all the macroeconomic projections, should indicate on what basis these projections have been made and make another comparison, that, however, we should all conclude that these assessments, which were made, were among the better ones that were made, and that they were nothing special and that the Government's thinking was when the budget was being prepared and when it was possible to change the budget without, for example, going into temporary funding, this was in October, September, exactly as were the international forecasts and there are no changes in this regard. More important changes and I have already said this in the beginning and evaluations in December also by Banka Slovenije - then we should practically stop the adoption of the budget at the last stage of the budget adoption and then prepare for a new part of the budget. Of course, this would mean temporary funding and, of course, a significantly more difficult situation. Otherwise, we have predicted that we will adjust the budget properly if necessary. My assessment is that this correction, which is now prepared, is relatively small and does not interfere substantially with the content. I also stressed this and will explain later. Otherwise, I estimate that, with the exception of one performance, more or less all have been relatively correct and have pointed out some of the real problems of Slovenian public finances. It is my opinion that there are not exactly any public finances that are always balanced and should not be carried out. What it means not to manage public finances we know, in 2000, when this did not happen in the second half, when we did not have a balance at the time and, of course, we had problems throughout 2001 and back in 2002. I think it's a continuous process that can't and can't be avoided. We will further explain the issue of tax recovery and tax debt, which is in fact quite different from what has been presented here, and this is what the tax administration report is talking about, and we will therefore serve with concrete data. As far as the statement on transparency of public finances is concerned, I welcome, in fact, some of the statements that have been made and, of course, the need to keep reminding us that this has always been the case, and that we are also gradually removing those neurological points that remain in the public finances. Of course, they're basic development programs. One of those programmes, which was proposed at the beginning of the 1990s, as we recall, during the time of Minister Janša, is one of those that has specifics and that would be worth considering how to lead it in the future and how to record it and how to then carry out funding. It should be noted that such a way of financing has existed for many years, exists and would, of course, lead to some very real problems. But I think this is a point that we can discuss. As for the privatisation of banks, some of you have pointed to this and to the B balance sheet where this purchase is displayed and you have asked about the purpose. The purpose is perfectly clear and can't be anything but repayment and reduction of public debt and absolutely nothing else and so on. Of course, the purchase will be made when the account is in progress and we will gradually repay this debt and at the same time start restructuring part of the Slovenian public debt, which is relatively poor. Mr Pece mentioned the scope of the debt this year and mentioned the amount of 230 billion. An important part of this debt comes from the efforts of the government, the finance ministry, to reduce the burdens of old debts and old bonds. We have bail bonds that have relatively high interest rates. We are gradually replacing these, and with this transaction we have eliminated part of the recovery bonds or replaced them for others, better. We had rescue bonds that had an interest rate of TOM+6.5. TOM+6.5 is, of course, an extremely high interest rate. Those who get to know know that at this year's planned growth of 3.7% and, of course, at this rate, this de facto means 6% inflation, which goes up to 10%, which is unacceptable and, of course, public debt restructuring is necessary. Therefore, even in the coming years, the scope of the debt will have to be increased according to the new debt, in order to reduce the old, less efficient, less debt, the debt burden of Slovenian taxpayers, and to have a better debt in our portfolio. I must say that this statement concerning Spiza and the pension register is not entirely correct. In fact, operating with data that the transfer has increased from 3% to 6% from the budget is virtually correct, but not really. As you know, in 1997, the government adopted specific measures to reduce the burden of the economy and reduce the contribution rate, and precisely these 3 percentage points come from the burden of the economy. This title, of course, burdened an additional state budget, including other expenditure, and, of course, burdened the economy and left it in the economy for the investment cycle of 150 billion each year from this title. And in this context, of course, today we are talking about a major economic crisis and I don't know what the situation is - of course it can come from a lack of data, but we all know that economic growth at this point is 3% compared to the economic growth of the European Union around 1.5% is once more economic growth. In fact, the rule in Slovenia has been out there since 1993 that we have always had a 100% higher economic growth than the European Union. Of course, in this context it is also appropriate to be aware of what investment is like when we talk about it. In Slovenia we have a share of investments in gross domestic product 25%. This is, of course, more than in the European Union, the European Union - 20%. This also results in a higher rate of economic growth. Of course, I do not understand these statements, in particular Mr Pečet, who spoke about how an incredibly unquality budget we had and how we had a seemingly high-quality budget at the time. I guess the gentleman didn't look at the numbers, he didn't look at what's in those materials, so let me say something about the budget that's on the table. Something about what you accept, something about what predestinates Slovenian public finances as well as Slovenian government programmes in 2002. After the rebalancing, if adopted today, there will be growth, real investment growth from the state budget 10.4% - 10.4%. It is very difficult to say that the budget, which has a real investment growth of 10.4%, is not countercyclical, is not developmental, on the contrary. In addition, investment expenditure is, of course, growing particularly in investment transfers, in two parts: in the part which is intended to finance projects in municipalities, and in the part which is intended for the Slovenian road cross. In this work, we have not intervened in the field of investment, and the fact is that real growth in this area is 16%. Yes, but the fact is that we have made significant savings in terms of real growth in the field of material costs. We are reducing the material costs of the current proposal by 2.5% real, 2.3% national authorities, and this, of course, seems important to me. There are some other specifics that should, however, shed light on what is at the heart of this budget so that there is no catastrophic situation in the air. It may be worth highlighting the structure of the revenue and expenditure of the state budget this year compared to those of previous years. This rebalancing has not substantially changed this structure. And if we look at the investment expenditure in the budget that we have after the rebalancing, 10% of all investment expenditure. In recent years, there have been about 9.4 of them. So we are undoubtedly increasing our share significantly. Of course, it has to be said that there are still some items that are important, and these are also, of course, social transfers, whose share does not change and remains at about the same level. In short, if we go through these tables and structure, we see that even in the field of health, which was mentioned earlier, there is still a large or exceptional effort by this country and this government, and in the field of health care, expenditure from the planned real growth of 31%, as we had in the preparation of the budget, is reduced to 28.7. So we still have one of the highest priorities right now in the field of health. The analysis of the structure of the budget and of all indicators, by all criteria, clearly and clearly shows that this budget, despite the rebalancing, is still a good budget, that it is a good budget. We are, of course, firmly convinced of this. However, the fact that we are changing it by 1%, that we have reacted immediately, and of course this will enable us - I am sure and I think that in the end the practice and reality will confirm that we will be able to close this year's budget without any major problems; that this budget is the right and real basis for preparing the 2003 supplementary draft budget - at this moment very intensive preparations are being made for the 2003 budget - the level of expenditure is, of course, lower and the corresponding level of expenditure will also be lower in the 2003 budget. But the essence, the essential part of this structure, the major part of the development funds and more of those that act countercyclically, will continue to be present in the 2003 budget. And perhaps the lesson of this story, which has taken place here today, is that we have too little detail on what are the actual components of the new budget, the revised budget; what is the real content and what is the meaning. In short, my assessment is that if you support this balance today, of course you will support a quality budget. If I may, I would now suggest that Mr Šuštaršič explain how and how macroeconomic projects were carried out. What are the foundations? And maybe there's something else about international comparisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dr. Shustrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u25	Dear Members and Members. I would like to comment briefly on what has been said about macroeconomic forecasts that are the basis for the preparation of the budget, of course three types of opinions have been expressed, three types, three groups of comments, including critics. The first part on the process itself and how to prepare methodologies, the second part on the accuracy of the forecast, the third part on the reality of the forecast for this year, which is now based on the proposal for a budget rebalancing. I mean, each of these points would make it clear that I am sure that criticism is not justified. Firstly, as regards the process itself and the methodology for the preparation of the forecast. The opinion was expressed that preparation was not transparent. That the methodology could not be verified. That methodologies are not checked with other experts and that the forecasts that we are actually preparing at the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis are not in the function of any other objectives than forecasting. None of this holds. Firstly, our forecasts are in fact the most transparent of all the forecasts that exist for Slovenia. Our forecasts are documented in the spring report or in the autumn report. These reports have some 40 pages of tables at the end, where all assumptions are detailed by comparison: Banka Slovenije’s forecast, justified in one table on one side of their publication. Second thing. The text of these analyses gives a very detailed explanation of the assumptions on which the forecast is based. Allegations, including partial methodology. In short, whoever takes the time to read this carefully, I'm sure he can be familiar with the methodology that we use. And the third time. This methodology has always been or has been explained to all interested parties. It is true, however, that this is usually of interest mainly to the International Monetary Fund, which is interested in foreign 'rating agencies', the European Commission. Several times, I think, in fact, there has never been a wish on the part of Members or Members' groups to have this methodology explained in more detail, or models, assumptions, the way we use it. I don't want to talk about it right now. I think this is an expert debate for which we are always ready and, of course, always open. Transparency in this forecast is also due to the fact that we are monitoring, not only their realization, but also to the fact that we are monitoring what is actually happening in the economy. In contrast, these findings are available in our publications monthly, half a year and so on. We always try to ensure that this information is objective, without embellishment, but certainly in the context of some real comparisons. And, of course, in these publications we also comment on the deviations of actual trends from predictions. Of course, we never tried to hide if the actual movements went differently from the predictions. The other thing is, it's not true that predictions aren't checked in professional circles. In fact, we are the only three institutions that have these true forecasts at home, which before we publish the forecasts, we invite forecasters from all the other institutions that do this, some other experts, and we present a forecast, even though it is incomplete, we listen to their comment and we try to take it into account. However, the first rounds of verification are, of course, already within the office, where we also have quite a few experts on our own. And then comes this third round of external monitoring, which is sometimes before the announcement, sometimes after it, is said with international institutions, in the end with the local public. The objective of the forecast has always been to be as realistic as possible. Simply because only real forecasts can be the basis for decision-making and if, of course, the forecast deviates from reality or fails to reality, this is due to errors or imperfections in the forecasting methodology and not to any other wishes or motives when the forecasts are being prepared. At the end of the day, they are also provided formally by the decision establishing the Office, in fact, ensuring its independence in the selection of both the methodology and the method of interpretation of data and forecasts. It is true, however, that this is essentially based on this belief that, above all, real forecasts can be the basis for planning. Perhaps once or twice, someone can come up with the idea that with a slightly adjusted forecast, he will achieve certain goals, but it will be very soon in the debate that this is actually impossible or very short-term. As far as the accuracy of the predictions of international comparisons are concerned, I will not repeat these numbers for a while. I would just say that the revisions made last year to the local forecasters were no different from those made in the global order of magnitude, between half and one percentage point in economic growth. It was just an extraordinary year when no one really knew exactly enough to continue to predict the dimensions and effects of, above all, international economic movements or recession. As far as accuracy is concerned, let me first say something about the autumn forecast, which was the basis for the preparation of the budget, which you are considering today's rebalancing. If you look, if you look at the nominal aggregates of course, you'd find that we actually missed very little. For the gross domestic product itself, by 0.5%, for private consumption, for example, for a tenth of the percentage, for investments in fixed assets also for two tenths of the percentage or for two mills. It is also interesting that we announced inflation last year among all those who predict it at home, especially in the spring. We did not predict inflation at all in the fall that 8.5% would be on an annual average. We've been changing, in the end it was 8.4%, which you'll agree that it probably doesn't indicate any attempt at a misleading forecast or, say, an incorrect forecast. Similarly, what is interesting to mention, the most realistic forecast of last year's growth in personal consumption is that we have only overestimated it by 0.2 percentage points. It is simply not true that we expected personal consumption to return to 1999, which was extraordinary, we have never written that. And, for example, Banka Slovenije predicted a higher growth in personal consumption than we predicted last year; we both overestimated it. Thus, the overall difference in the forecast of economic growth in last year between the forecast of 3.7% and, in fact, 3% of real growth is due in one part to methodological causes, in particular to the calculation of deflators, we have written about and explained this, and again, I repeat, this is probably not a room for methodological debates. The second, which may be more substantive or analytical error or derogation, is the underestimation of the impact of recession or poor economic expectations mainly on domestic investment and, in part, the overestimation of the impact that State policy may have on investment growth; in particular, this is the case with the first forecast last year. But all the time, as soon as there were data, let's say about economic growth, we were the first to say that, let's say, investment growth is not what we expected, and so on. We didn't have to find that in the papers or anything. If we look at - because of these criticisms and, of course, because of our own control, self-control, we have looked at the accuracy of our forecasts in the last five years; it is said, from 1996 to 2001. As for the forecast, the spring forecast for economic growth is on average 0.15 percentage points. So if growth is 4, our forecast is 4,15 or 3,85, which is less than 5% error. Last year's exception, due to the reasons I mentioned and 1999, when we overestimated it last year, was underestimated because we did not expect so much growth in domestic consumption as it was in that year. The same applies to inflation. There is also accuracy in this period of an average of 0.35 percentage points, which according to the inflation rates at that time was also less than 5% error. The exception is 2000 when it came to the extremely high effects of rising oil prices, which I think no one in the world has actually predicted exactly. What is even more important may be to say here is that the forecasts are by no means biased. We have overestimated economic growth four times, underestimated inflation four times during this period, and underestimated inflation, which is roughly what one would say, a balanced error to the left and to the right, which you will probably understand. As regards current economic developments this year, why we believe that the forecast of 3.3% of economic growth is still a realistic forecast. Mainly due to movements occurring in the first quarter of this year. These have been mentioned many times today, if I may comment briefly. As far as our predictions are concerned. We expected economic growth in the first quarter to be extremely low, 2.2% real. We also said that before this information was published. If we could find a statement of mine, we could see that we actually estimated it to be between 1.5 and 2%. Export growth was - due to export growth, also expected to be low - 2%, which is already higher than in the last quarter of last year when it was 1.2%. What it now shows is that the data confirms what virtually all forecasters agree this year to gradually demonstrate in the external environment the strengthening of economic activity that affects our exports, of course. As far as domestic consumption is concerned, growth rates were achieved in the first quarter, in fact, relatively high, 2.6 personal consumption, 2.9 investment increases, which is approximately at the level we announced for the whole year. It is said that it is not possible to talk about the fact that the first - quarter data showed that growth was cheap or overestimated. Similarly, the construction movement, which is slowly showing the strengthening of low buildings, confirms what we expected, is said to be the strengthening of investments, particularly in the work related to the highway programme. And as far as inflation is concerned, we have already said, of course, that our data forecast this year is about real with a possible deviation of about 0.3 percentage points or something like that - up, of course. I think that these basic issues, which I said, show a relatively low increase in value added in processing activities and industry, which is linked to low export growth, and here all other domestic forecasters, are said to be the Bank of Slovenia and the Chamber of Economics and, for example, the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law, which - for example - develops a model whose results are then used by us or the Faculty of Economics in Maribor, we similarly agree that in the second half of the year there will be an increase in this industrial activity, including exports. I would conclude by saying what are the differences in this year's evaluations; I might also take advantage of the opportunity to quote the International Monetary Fund once. When we asked them how they viewed the differences between, say, our forecasts and forecasts of the Bank of Slovenia, their comment was that there were actually differences within the boundaries of what justifies actual uncertainty in actual economic movements. This is said to be the difference in this range of sizes, as they exist, but normal. In general, Banka Slovenije is more optimistic in its forecast this year with private consumers and with investments from us, less optimistic about exports. The same applies to the European Commission. The International Monetary Fund was the only one that is even more cautious than us in predicting domestic consumption, especially private spending. If you want to compare the optimism of these predictions, let's say, for this year. Our forecast is actually a little more optimistic than the Bank of Slovenia. In economic growth 3.3 compared to 3.1%, for the following year this difference is still slightly higher, 4.3 compared to 3.9, but our forecast is more conservative in those components that are key to forecasting government revenue, which we are not doing, but whatever. So, say, private spending for this year is forecasting significantly lower growth than Banka Slovenije, say 2.3% instead of 3.3%. Just for illustration. This is said to be some general assessment that our forecasts are too optimistic or that they are not justified by some real movements, I think they simply do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. In the end, of course, I ask the representatives of the government, yes - Dr. Bayuk, in fact, you're all embarrassing me together. The custom is to present, of course, their opinions to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. A number of fellow Members and Members are in writing for the debate. And if we now open the controversy with the representative of the office and with the representatives of the government, I think it is correct to give the floor to all those who have applied in writing, including others, and finally begin this conversation, as is the custom in our general debates. Dr. Bayuk, if you'll allow us to give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament who have been notified in writing. And then, of course, you have the right to replica, and I'm giving it to you, but I think it's right for government representatives to finally answer all the dilemmas that I have to give Jim to ask questions. [[...]] [[...]] The procedural proposal takes precedence over the replica, then has a replica of Mr Bayuk. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u27	Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Well, apparently you're already working on the new rules of procedure. For, after the standing rules of procedure, we should give the floor after the parliamentary groups to the Members who have been notified. And only at the end of the proposal. In the new Rules of Procedure, however, the matter is as resolved as you have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, that's not right. The custom is this: the Rules of Procedure say that they have the opportunity to speak in the context of the general debate by a representative of the Government, the leaders of the groups of Members, Members and Members, and so on. Mr. Bajuk, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to use this option because much of what Dr. Šuštaršič just said today concerns also the presentation I made this morning. In particular, I would like to say that I have been happy to hear that some of the things we have warned about are actually happening. But this was not a criticism of how the UMAR works, but how it reports on its work. And that's still an open question. Because at last I completely believe that Shušteršič is also talking to other experts. But the question is, don't report it. Another time. Differences between assessments of such different institutions are common. You don't have to be surprised because that's true. There are different people who look at certain data in a different way; the point is to get this explanation. Not when we talk for an hour and a half or even ask questions in the morning, but then it comes down to just causing us to explain what was meant to be. Of course, I will examine very well the differences between the Bank of Slovenia's assessments and the assessments of this government office as regards growth by the end of the year. Above all, I am concerned that if this is also the case that the Bank of Slovenia predicted even greater growth in private spending than it was then, then it is necessary to look for where the other reasons are that it still insists on 2.9, not on 3.3 as the government insists on. These aren't cat tears. Finally, it is imperative that the National Assembly understands - and not only that it understands - that it gets the appropriate explanations first. We have the right to this explanation, and the government has the duty to explain it. So any answer about accuracy or inaccuracy, the essence or point of what I said this morning is a very different systemic approach; that there must also be some mechanism that will ensure credibility and verification with others. If this is checked, please, let's get used to reporting it, because we have the right to know, and you have the duty to say it. Because this is in line with the standards of fiscal transparency that the world knows and that we also swear to, our country. Then it's too bad Mr. Minister isn't here, but I'll be waiting with a replica of his presentation. But that's all I want to say. The new Ljubljana Bank. Yes, of course! The key question was that the government does not tell us what it intends to do. Now he's telling us we're gonna cut the debt. Nice. But the question I raised was part of the expectation that this national assembly must also decide on this, so that we will know in time what the country's plans are and how and where we will reduce debt. It's not that simple. I would expect us to at least consider what principle this will take, where, by what key we will decide on, what debt we will pay, which we will not pay, whether domestic or foreign, because it finally matters what will be the result of our public finances. The whole point is this. According to the old Slovenian proverb, we know that the opportunity is missed, no one returns. And unfortunately for all of this, we have again lost the opportunity to take this decisive step, so that once and for all we will decide to pour pure wine to the Slovenians, where we are and where we are going. But we find that out gradually. Last year, you admitted that there were really hours of deficits, and all of a sudden we admitted 76 or 75 billion, as much as it is. It was not just that it was a random attack of honesty or transparency on our government, but because we had to report it to the European Union. And that's why it happened. So we know that there are other things, at least two of which I have pointed out today, but one-third I have pointed out in the question to the Prime Minister at the previous meeting, regarding the debt we have to the craft fund. But of course there is no answer. The Minister's answers are very similar to the responses of his President, our Prime Minister Drnovska, who agrees to the question and then there are never any definitive answers. In this sense, he will certainly have a very brilliant career, for he is already preaching that he will make progress because he is obviously responding as Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, explain again. It is not a question of order, as we normally have it, that the proposalr has the floor first, then the representative of the committee, the secretariat, representatives of the parliamentary groups, Members and Members, and so on. However, there is no way that the chairman can limit the applicant if he makes a statement after the presentation of the representatives of the parliamentary groups and wishes to provide an explanation. This does not in any way violate the rules of procedure in the work where Members and Members have the opportunity to present their opinions in the framework of an unlimited debate. Replica Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I object to Mr Bayuk's distinguished colleague, in the part where you spoke about the credibility of the announcement of individual institutions. I appreciate you as an expert, so I'm surprised you're trying to put us, the National Assembly, in the role of an arbitrator on which prediction is more real. In fact, you also indirectly state that you are for the dependence of institutions that are preparing forecasts of economic indicators or economic growth and others. That is why I do not think that the National Assembly should stand up or stand up for this role as an arbitrator at all, because this would lead to exactly what you have always been opposed to since you have been in Slovenian politics; it is said that the politicisation of independent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the Members of Parliament and Members to an unlimited debate. The four are in the following order: first Mr Kelemina, then Mr Drobnic, Mr Sok and Mr Bernik. Mr. Kelemina has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that. Sir, if I am not mistaken, I have therefore said in adopting the budget for 2000 that the budget for 2000 is, of course, also a special fraud for 2003 and also a lie by the proposer, the authorities, the governments. And apparently, given the represented balance we have today in the National Assembly, I was not wrong. In all of this, in all of this folklore, which is happening here with this rebalance and budgets and so on, it is purely a folklore, enough to wake you up a little - it is mainly a tactic and strategy. It is necessary to determine why in the first phase the budget is exaggerated, false, so to speak, set with great hopes both before the authorities, before the Members and even before the Slovenian public and before anyone else you want; the great hopes that it will be possible to expel from this budget, who knows what projects all and what services to deliver to everyone. However, once such a draft budget is adopted with these great hopes, it is necessary to make a new strategy, a new strategy, something new, because all those great hopes have been forgotten and something new needs to be put on the agenda, a rebalance that is once again a new manoeuvre and a new fraud by taxpayers and all supporters of this authority. Because the elections are approaching and it is necessary to show Slovenian citizens that this country can also save, not only spend excessively. So, I firmly believe that it is folklore, and this is also said by a number of experts, although I do not object, formally that the balance as such is possible and, on the one hand, can also be justified. Of course, now that this rebalancing has come, and when many of the projects from this exaggerated budget have fallen out, somehow those who have also fallen out of this work, including certain Members from specific areas that have been bought in this way or sold or whatever you want, their projects have failed, but with comfort: if, for the second time, you will make up for these programmes in the next 2003 budget and this story will, of course, continue all the years ahead. In his presentation, the Minister said many times in some other statements on this budget rebalancing that savings were also involved in some parts. My assessment is that this government and this government never knew and will never be able to save because, in my opinion, it does not know how money is made. They don't know how much money is made, they think that money is earned in this way, that it's collected by taxpayers, that it's their money, and that they can do what they want with it. They do not know how difficult it is to earn tolar with hands, with head, what efforts are needed to enable Slovenian workers to pay on average, if you calculate about 2 million 300, or something like that, taxes per year, all taxes per year - average employees in the economy who are just as productive, must pay more than 2 million 300 taxes for the state budget and for all other contributions and so on. From where? And a lot of net workers can pay 500,000 a year, a lot of them. And of course it doesn't mean anything to you because you're looking at billions and it doesn't matter now where they're going and how they're going; it's important that you pick them up and think they're yours. And that's not going to change, I'm sure, for a long, long time. Of course, when you talk about this savings, I would tell you that - and I have already told you this, but I can only mention now - that individual ministries, in planning their spending, are often present or always, are planning their spending quite improperly. This has also come to light now, you have already admitted this at the committee's own presentation, where, for example, one billion-dollar portfolio minister has planned too much and it has been found that, on the basis of the programmes that exist, it is not possible for him to spend this money at all. At that time, I said that such an unrealistically planned minister should be suspended immediately, but you will not do so because this is not a European practice in our country and this cannot happen in our country. In short, we know how the expenditure is planned, and no one, not a single minister, is firmly convinced that in this government is capable and does not know and can not exactly control all expenditure - already in the planning of the budget for a period of time, cannot. Certain bureaucrats or whatever you call them, heads of departments or whatever they are, we know that because they have said it to me personally more than once, at all levels, from municipal levels to state levels, they plan some means and they have to plan them at some level, so that they can sometimes exist. And they have to plan these funds as high as possible so that they can spend them needlessly. And it often happens that, at the end of the year, when they no longer have programmes, when they have not exhausted the programme and so on, these funds are being used headlong enough to avoid being deprived of new funds for the second year. This is present and how many more times. However, I say that no minister and no authority that has ever been here has been able to actually plan and actually tell and assess what is the cost that should really be covered in a budget for a year and which must not be in it. Because, you know, you have to save. But you don't know that. You don't know that, and you never know that, and you never will, because you don't know how much money is made. You have also done nothing or very little - this has been said, Mr Pece explained to you nicely, I will not repeat it again - so that the revenue will increase somehow, otherwise you have increased the VAT tax to 20 per cent and excise duties have increased. But obviously there are no effects. In short, not just that, but other things have increased, contributions and so on. The burdens of working people, of those who create, are increasing, but they cannot bear it. They can't handle that kind of pressure. I told you how much pressure it is for one resident or one worker to pay taxes per year. I can't imagine that in this poor economy that we have -- it's impossible to satisfy. As far as your actions are concerned - as Mr Pece has told you nicely and rightly - the promotion of the economy, higher economic growth and so on. The area has often, rather than actually contributing to the creation of new cycles to promote investment in new products or new technologies and so on, in fact with its political impact, it is hampering the development of the economy. There's too little to do on export. We have talked many times about our diplomacy being unable to do anything and not helping to open the doors and markets in the world and thus justify its existence. However, expenditure is also, of course, uncontrollable, as we have noted, for example - a brief side of money thrown away, as we have seen in the hardware store, interest on bonds and so on, where dozens of billions of high interest go to zero. And there are countless projects like this. There are countless projects like this. And nothing, you probably haven't done a grey today to cut those interest rates. And that's where some banks get rich, and so on. Some individuals who have bought up certain claims in time and so on. In short, anarchy in the whole area. On the one hand, a whole range of people who live below the existential minimum, and on the other hand, rare voters, of course you support, who are incredibly rich and who are not properly taxed. Their wealth is not properly taxed at this stage. Not in a lot of areas. When are you going to do that? Some changes have been announced. I wonder when that's gonna be. By the time it's too late, when they're so rich, they can't actually get high taxes anymore. It is not the purpose of this, but; in short, they will be richer, but the poor will be even more poor. Now, in any way, to save, say, in the state administration. I have already said this many times - but this too is not capable of the National Assembly, but the government does not, and so on, is, in fact, unable to do so - because we have a whole range of different services so that I will not quote, and thousands of employees in individual sectors in the State Administration, on the government that have the minimum resources that they then share with the municipalities as some kind of investment transfer or whatever. I have already said a hundred times: it is necessary to make such a law on the financing of municipalities, where municipalities will be provided with such funds for their smooth operation, so that the mayors, secretaries, I don't know who else, go daily - thousands of people to state institutions and ask for certain investments in projects and so on. The municipalities need to give enough money, as normal as it is for their development, and say, these are the resources you have at your disposal, and you no longer have anything to knock on the state door. Other instruments with which the authority should, if possible and should operate, be others. And I firmly believe that I do not know if we are - in the previous term I have called on Members to sit down for ourselves, perhaps 46 Members, and to give these directives to the authorities to start doing so. However, obviously we are not able to do this, especially the great weight of the coalition members, especially the LDS Members, who are likely to be satisfied with those tiny bits that they collect from the tables or from the floor, because what is on the table is probably not possible for them. Once again, I strongly condemn the huge costs being incurred both at the state level due to the employment of unnecessary people with very small sums of budget resources for local needs and the costs incurred by local communities for their arrival in Ljubljana. So, I strongly condemn this and I would just like it to go away, even though it's a big question, when and how. And in fact, we Members are doing a lot of work here in the National Assembly - today, let's say, well, with the budget rebalancing, which is something that is a post-festum all together. Then we deal, for example, with the adoption of the law by making commas and dots, with certain laws, with those that the authorities are poorly shaping, rather than dealing with policy-making in particular areas, and with control by the National Assembly against the government and all other institutions, or with those policies and implementing those laws that the National Assembly has adopted. We have already said a hundred times that we have accepted a whole series of commitments, perhaps even an uncontrolled or excessive obligation is in the National Assembly against the State budget and projects that simply cannot be implemented. It's a fact, it's true. However, the government should define and report on the implementation of such laws in any adoption of the law. However, it does not do so because it wants to be liked by individual Members or, above all, by certain voters, wants to be liked, allows such laws to be adopted, and then the easiest measure is to exclude from the law on the implementation of the budget all that does not simply correspond to it and all the laws and other obligations adopted, which are in some way constitutionally confirmed, are necessary to do, even often exclude and simply do so for periods of "return". Mr Minister here, as has already been said, also called on consumption to fall in Slovenia, to make a number of, or to not achieve, those revenues that were thought to be from this title. That's completely understandable. In fact, a large part of the population is directing their income towards those goods that are essential for them to survive at all. It's bread, milk, food. In some respects, I have observed that Slovenians are in charge of 24% per capita, which is extremely high. Many times, you won't believe it, I have this experience, people hire loans also to survive, to meet basic needs of life. Especially in my congregation, in Sevnica, it is present where there is a huge textile industry where people get 40,000, 50,000, 60,000 wages and cannot live on it. And they live in blocks, two-, three-member families. They can't. And then they take the loan, then they pay off the loan 20,000, and then they end up getting a payoff of 20,000, 25,000 dollars. How can he survive for this money? And then he comes into my office and they cry there to help them. How? How can I help them? How? Tell me that. That's impossible. And you exhaust yourself in this way, or then you wonder how these people should spend it. They can't spend because they don't have where. Such municipalities, undeveloped municipalities, with a low potential for the population, financial municipalities, should be significantly more assisted. However, we have seen in the regional development reports that nothing is actually happening and that there is no funding on these programmes at all. In short, the money that was provided through the demographically threatened area is not available this year. That's where you took about 20, 30 million from individual municipalities for individual projects. There's not even that money. On the other hand, someone who, in a municipality like us, opened one company in 1992 with 200 employees and therefore "cassified" 500 million at the time, in 1992, 500 million and two years had that company open, the private sector from Ljubljana, and Mr Kučan was also at the opening of such a project, to provide new jobs, are 500 million to be cashed, and today the municipality has to pay 74 million late interest due to its involvement in this business, almost unknown. And for that, you will rob this poor congregation for 74 million dollars. No one in this country has been able to commit to paying such a poor congregation 36 million principals and 170 million interest accrued to this day. In other words, it is said that they have negotiated 74 million now that such a poor congregation has to pay, where people in so many cases cannot survive. And then people come to me and say they have no choice but to commit suicide. Really, I'm telling you. And suicides have already been committed in our congregation. They actually were. Because now they're threatening to lose their jobs. 20,000 a month and they'll lose their jobs. This is the story of the success that this authority promotes. What Mr Minister also says is that there is no saving on investment projects and so on. This is again the same deception as we used to. He is probably not himself, although it is obvious to Mr Pečet that he probably did not read the budget lines, he may not have read all the items himself and did not see them. I don't blame him. That's the only thing he's got other people for. But it is not appropriate for such things to be obvious to someone else, and he is talking about the fact that they are not distorted investment programs. How the investment programmes were not distorted, but when you took them from certain projects that were negotiated as necessary and were defined as a priority in some minimum amount and then reduced them even by half. And not only that, you've set new priorities. And here I very much resent Mr President for allowing new priorities to be made in these few months in 2002, but those priorities that were necessary to be implemented and set out in the budget in 2002 have been deleted by half. If you want, I'll show you here, because I showed you last time. Don't tell me I'm talking to you. And you've reduced investments, say, just on the roads for more than 2 billion investment transfers in individual areas. Above all, on a local level. And you're also talking about some high expansion in construction and so on. Are you even aware that all these successes that we are actually reaping and the good life that Slovenia has on average has on account of debt? We have, I think, some 1,800 billion external debts. Something like that. That's absurd! Who's gonna pay for this? I warn you this all the time - who's going to pay for it? And always new loans are being leased, always new foreign liabilities - who's going to pay for it? To what generation are we basically transferring this? We cannot afford it, at least my assessment is 60% of the deficit or debt of gross domestic product, as some foreigners advise us. That's too much. In our economy, the bad economy, it can't happen, my dear, it can't be like any possibility that we'll continue, maybe two more, three more, four or five years, living more luxuriously than we can live. However, some important projects, which would be necessary to finance them, stand. For example, if I mention only one thing - on railway infrastructure and on railway reorganisation, almost nothing or extremely little is done. And for you, of course, the LDS coalition, the United List, also the People's Party, unfortunately, I have to mention sometimes, is your first priority, who will be the director of the Slovenian Railways, not how the National Council would adopt the national programme or the balance of the national railway infrastructure programme and all other strategic projects on which they would know how to rehabilitate the Slovenian Railways as soon as possible. Now it is your priority, of course, to set the director and priority to break the railways and sell the railways to get some change. Look at the examples in England and other countries where they tried to break the railroads. And what did they accomplish? Today they find that's not going to work. It is necessary to invest in railways that the railway is of the national interest so to speak and that it cannot be allowed to break down railways. That's a fact. You'll be coming to the National Assembly with these projects soon, and then we'll talk about it. The fact is that this state budget, this one and the previous one, and also with a balance or a rebalancing is certainly in great trouble. I am aware that even municipalities of financial settlement do not get liquid, that this financial settlement is late, and that this makes them extremely liquidity problems in the municipalities, and, of course, no one is concerned. No one: not the government, not the coalition, and so on. Nobody! You should be. I'm pretty sure. I must also draw attention to what Mr Kebrič said when he speaks critically about certain matters relating to the budgetary balance and in general to the fiscal policy of Slovenia. I'm very surprised that he has such comments, I don't know what he's doing in the government, what their client in the government is doing. Which says, "Make sure" that this is arranged and so on. I don't know. I think they're very responsible, but they don't. But look, not now that I'm going to talk again about pensions, that they're not justified and so on, even though we've already said that certain irregularities have been committed there. However, in the last 6.7 years from the state budget, there were 0, but now - say - the state budget in the pension fund gives a huge billion money. I think it's about 170 plus now another 9 billion. Another 9 billion! I'm not saying that pensioners have too high a pension. No, let's make it even higher. Whether they have a minimum pension, I bet 500 euros or a new 500 euros. Make it a minimum pension. I'm up for this because with this money it's barely possible to survive normally or to survive modestly. But that's the way it's supposed to be. People come to me, pensioners, only have 120,000 pensions and it's hard to live. Yeah, well, what can I tell them right now is how to live the people I talked about before, who, because of the loans they've hired to survive, have 20,000 payouts. And they have to go to work. I am not opposed to high pensions, although it is also a great privilege for large outflows that are unjustifiable. However, I do not think that the pension reform that you have advocated and this authority has adopted this legislation has been effective. She wasn't. And it won't be in the future. How are you going to justify these things in front of Slovenian taxpayers? I don't know. Also, Mr Ferri, when you spoke of double morals and referred to the fact that Members of Parliament generously, we have widely proposed amendments for individual projects somewhere, and on the other hand - let's say - we are calling for savings and so on, on the one hand, it is very unfair. In fact, I will not say that this has not happened, perhaps at a time like this, but I firmly believe that most of us have only proposed those things that we think are of priority in Slovenia and where it is of national interest. If it is not a national interest in this country to allow families to actually contribute to increasing the number of births in Slovenia due to some tax reliefs as well as better family contributions or better supplements for larger families. If this is not the national interest of Category I, then I do not know what the interest is in Category I. And here we should certainly be broad-minded. But there's a whole series of projects that I've talked about before where it's necessary to call for savings. It's urgent. And these projects were presented today. Not so many times. Otherwise, I do not agree with most of what Mr Pece has said. Maybe not that all of this will lead us to ruin. I say no, because I firmly believe that Slovenian workers, the Slovenian people, are something special in this world. In fact, the Slovenians are an extremely hardworking nation, a good nation, an extremely greedy nation, and also extremely stupid to support all of this. It should have been a long time ago. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u34	Mr. Kelemina, I'm sorry, but I'm asking you to keep an eye on your language and focus on the proposal for a rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u35	Thanks for the heads-up, but I don't think I've ever said anything like that that could hurt anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u36	"The Slovenian nation is stupid," I apologize, Mr Kelemina. Watch your language.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u37	I didn't say anything that wasn't real. Was I lying? I just said that the Slovenian people can't actually go to waste. He can't and he won't fail. They were always working and working to the extreme, and they put up with him more, and he worked harder. And that's right. May it continue to take place in such a way that our rulers will be able to rule joyfully. In short, just like the 2002 and 2003 budgets, as well as the 2002 budget rebalancing, because of all these anomalies and mistakes that this authority is making, and for which the LDS Members, the United List, the DeSUS and also the People's Party are guilty, I will not vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Drobnič has been reported as second to an unlimited debate. It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Mr. Kelemina! In your implementation, we agree in a good way. And I continue to say that the current authorities will bring this country, citizens and citizens, into a much worse situation than it is today. And that the condition for such a negative path, which it leads to in the case of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia through its Members in this National Assembly, is reflected primarily through the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and through the relationship of the Minister of Finance, Mr Tonet Rope, who is unable to apologize on the one hand or at least to recognise a mistake from six months ago. At the final stage, we must be aware that Mr Rop is the one who claimed that budgetary revenue and expenditure were actually set up at the time of the draft budget for 2002 and that today he recognises or acknowledges that the country has less than 40 billion revenues than is shown. And here is the significance of the problem: in the unselfishness of Minister Rob, who will fall, not only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not only the National Assembly, but unfortunately all of this country, into the abyss where we will be very difficult to get together. I said earlier that this country, this finance minister, Tone Rop, only issued bonds this year, I think from RS-24 to RS-41, amounting to 230 billion Slovenian tolars. Can you imagine what an assignment that is? However, it will be through the title used by Minister Rop to justify covering past obligations, whether it will be from that title of inability to obtain funds. And I think that's a big enough argument to listen to this option, maybe blindness to who it is that these things are going to throw away our citizens, of course, when we're looking at what's still going on. And in my implementation or in the implementation of the Slovenian National Party, I have told you what just happened this year, since the sale of the main economic players, if we define them as banks, we all know that the country has sold quite a few things over the past period, and all with a positive note from Minister Rob. This is the fear that this country must fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I would like to repeat to Mr Saš Pečet in this part that I agree, however, that Mr Rop is very responsible for these things, but he is not the only one responsible. We must be strongly aware that the power we have has been set up by this national assembly, and by the members of the coalition of fellows who are responsible for whether a government will function properly or not. They are responsible and they should, if this authority does not act as it should have done, as agreed and as ordered by the National Assembly on the basis of the legislation and guidelines adopted, the policies formulated by this National Assembly and so on, then this authority to the National Assembly, the Coalition, is obliged to remove such a government and create a new one. And if that's not a good one, put in a new one. But that's not possible with us. One minister cannot be suspended with us, the opposition cannot suspend him, but they do not want to suspend him. This is the difference, and this is the problem of this country, because this virtual democracy that rules in this country is absurd to absurdity. This is neither a democratic state nor a rule of law, and it will not be for long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, I would like to invite you back to the debate. He's not here. He won't. Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u43	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members and Members! Despite the fact that somehow Mr Ferri Horvat has called us to anti-inflationary action, concerning the number of words, because they will not help anything, so I understood him, I have nevertheless discussed some of the facts in this budget rebalancing that do not match what Mr Drnovšek and Mr Rop talked about when they presented the budget last November. I would also like to say that, in fact, it does not matter what the opposition in this national assembly says, because it does not listen to us, both the Members and the Government responsible for this situation. However, if he is listening, and the media are also putting the label in public, I do not know, as I could read in the Saturday Annex to work on July 6th, where the journalist says the opposition is poorly subdued in economic terms. I don't think that the more accurate analysis of the situation that Dr. Bayuk gave us today is possible. If you've listened to him, he's downplayed all the problems and he's told you where the solutions are. But if, of course, this is not enough, it is necessary to say - I will repeat what he also said - that the opposition does not have an economic institute, nor does it have an office for macroeconomic analysis, nor does it have money to pay for any economic experts. It can only use what is in public, what the media have announced, and we have warned in adopting the budget that economic growth will not be what the government has foreseen. And this, of course, quickly also proved that the opposition was right with these predictions. It would be very good and easy to correct the budget rebalancing up. In this case, many amendments to this budget balance would probably be tabled in New Slovenia as well. However, since it is a downward correction, of course this shows one, birekel, poor situation in Slovenian finances. And if the future rebalans, which have been announced in this debate today, will also take place in the same scenario and the state debt will increase as well as the budgetary deficit, then, of course, the country is writing a very black scenario. And that's why I don't even have to be a big economic expert. This, after all, can be understood by someone who is a veterinarian by profession, just as I am. Well, that's quite clear. In this debate, I would like to draw attention to two facts that do not correspond to what I have already said by Minister Rob and by the Prime Minister last year when the budget is adopted. Firstly, last year, when the budget was adopted, there was a great deal of talk on regional development and insufficient funding for more coherent regional development. At that time, the Minister said that the competitiveness of the economy will also be encouraged by the government's investment in road infrastructure, in particular in the construction of motorways, which should be accelerated in the coming years and should also go from the budget more for this purpose. At that time, he admitted that in the complementary part of the draft budget, the government also listened to the opposition and increased the funding for the Slovenian road programme by 2.2 billion. But if you are looking at this budget rebalancing today, you can find that for about as much as the billan is increased on the opposition's proposal, this year the government is shrinking with a balance. It therefore decreases with regard to road infrastructure, in the case of maintenance and investment in road construction for ca. 1.3 billion, I am even more surprised to learn that the government is also reducing funds for the ongoing maintenance of public rail infrastructure with a balance sheet. This means that this rebalancing is totally contrary to what Dr. Drnovšek spoke about as a priority in this National Assembly. It is clear that if road infrastructure funds are reduced, this will slow down the construction of the Slovenian motorway cross, in order to slow down the construction of Slovenian roads, so that the deadlines will be extended and, of course, investments will move to a distant future. In short, it is not enough to wait in Slovenia and open about 16 km of motorways annually. Drnovšek said, at the time of the presentation, that the state and government would engage and provide a different and additional source of funding to engage private funds in order to complete these projects more quickly, he said, "either through concessions or in any other way". Today, seven, eight months after his convincing Members here in Parliament, virtually none of this has occurred. We still do not have the balance of the Slovenian national road programme, we still do not have a law to enable concession building. So the government is promising us something, but nothing in this area is moving. And we, as far as this is concerned, are extremely lagging behind a developed Europe. And the fact that I don't have the power that I should have - of course, the Slovenian country is causing enormous economic damage and I could say, even victims in the human potential, because this is a daily occurrence of many accidents, many people are dying, many people are unhappy and so on. Even worse, of course, is the image and situation of local road infrastructure. I wonder, then, when will the government fulfill what it has signed with the European Community since 1993 and built, say, a section from Slovenia Bistrica to Ormož. When will we get a solution in Prague, when will we get a solution on Ptuj and so on? So these are the questions that this government apparently puts into some distant future. The next thing I want to draw attention to is agriculture. Dr Drnovšek said after the presentation of the budget that the government is making a lot of investments and is very committed to agricultural reforms. Let us see what the results of these agricultural reforms are. The results are mainly such that agricultural production is falling sharply, that the gross added value of agriculture in the total gross social product is reduced by more than 10% annually, that the country of Slovenia is increasing food imports. In 2000 alone, it was 50 million more than in 1999 and amounted to 700 million German brands; fewer and fewer people are deciding on farming and that our surfaces are growing. So this is also the European Commission's conclusion and is recorded in the European Commission's 2001 report. There are no data on the status of agriculture for 2001, but according to some information that has leaked to the public, they are even worse than in 2000, as they state that the only positive growth in the pig sector is in the pig sector, and everything else is actually happening in even worse terms than it was in the year before. In the public there is some basic dilemma and some dispute about whether the price of wheat should be 28.5 or 2 tolars more, but no one is discussing that for a kilo of bread a farmer must sell 10 kilograms of wheat, then make it into an industrial bakery kilogram of bread or that it is necessary - I don't know - 3 kilograms of wheat for ice cream. I ask you, government representatives, who with this topic are somehow blurring the real situation, what it would mean for us to have prices so high, if the bread were 20 tolars more expensive. So nothing much, but it is, of course, a topic that is very attractive and ready for both the Ministry of Agriculture and the trade union, as the agricultural-land chamber, to argue and convince each other who is more right; and the eyes of the Slovenian public are more opposed to this than to the failure to implement those structural changes in the agricultural field that we have decided on. I'm saying this because 2004 is ahead of us. And of course it is clear that we cannot go to some industrial agricultural production in Slovenia because Slovenian agricultural structure for such farming is simply unprepared and it is not possible to grow on these small farms in this way. It has already been mentioned here that, in fact, budget reserves are shrinking most in this balance sheet. This means, of course, that the funds to be paid by the State under the law on compensation for damage caused by drought, cold and storms in 2001 will also be reduced. The law of that time stipulated against the will of the opposition that these funds were to be paid out of the budget reserve. Well, now we're on it. This is the way the budget reserve is shrinking, and on the other hand, 4 billion and a half, or a little more, transfers to the pension fund. But this is the case, and I will read one paragraph from the Pomurska Vesnik, which was published on 16.5.2002. The disastrous image of our agriculture also shows data on the payment of contributions to compulsory health insurance. Farmers paid only 7.5 million dollars of contributions by the end of March this year, and their debt remains seven times higher. At the same time, the end of last year fell from 115 million to 49, partly into the account of the admission of a mortgage on property in the land book." What does that mean? What fellow Member Kelemin used to say before me is that people live and live from what they created in the past. Look, with the admissions to a mortgage in the land book, the suburban farmers save the situation and pay off the debts. I'm asking representatives of the government what do you think of this. Is such a situation a suitable basis for joining the European Union in 2004? It is said that on the one hand income does not flow into the pension register because simple farmers do not have the money for it. On the other hand, as the youth representative has said, the country is increasingly investing in the pension fund from the budget. This is, of course, some round cycle, some circle from which, as this government proposes, it is impossible to get out. Let me get this straight. In the past, Minister Rop explained in broad terms how the government settles and repays certain old obligations with all these changes. But if he said that, then, of course, he indirectly admitted that this political option has in the past made many mistakes, which now cost us to pay these liabilities back at the expense of a new debt. As long as the state of Slovenia has enough state property to sell it, now to some other foreigners, this time will be possible. When the property is gone, then help us, I don't know who. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Ministers, Madam Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today a lot has been said about finance and everything, and that is why I will not somehow descend into numbers because we have heard enough of them, some of them very sad, but some of them have already been forgotten. I would like to take in the defence of the Minister for Finance, Mr Rob from this point of view. I like that he's always so optimistic. There's always a better future than the present. She's sunny and happy. Of course, our duty, as I have said many times before, is that we are skeptical of his predictions, and I can also say that unfortunately this scepticism has still won. I don't know how long this is gonna take. Even when I looked at this Slovenian economic mirror from last June, showing for this year, I will make an exception, the number mentioned that it is for this year and for the next two years, says 2003 and 2004, all the more important indicators appear to be very optimistic. Everyone's better than last year, 2001. These data are from the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and I imagine that the government is also using these forecasts. But when one looks at, examines the budget and the balance, it comes to the conclusion that neither one is balanced. But here I don't mean in a financial sense, but in another sense. Before I go to this point, let me mention that years ago I read a book entitled How to Cheat or Lie to Statistics. It may also be good to buy this book for Members of Parliament, us Members, so that we can get through some of the forecasts offered by the rebalancing and budget. However, I would like to go to an analysis or a brief analysis of the principles on which the budget lines are based. Both the budget and the balance are not built on the constitutional equality of Slovenian citizens. Why? The financial needs are based on the premise of the country's ideological orientation. This, of course, is totally contrary to the democratic regulation of our country, violates the human rights of Slovenian citizens and, of course, the rest. The only ideology that the country should have in democracy is the constitution and the resulting equality of citizens. I'm sure you know what I'm talking about. Our authorities from the top down hold one truth, which is obligatory for all citizens, for all the employees of the country, and of course there is a crowd, and so the present budget also reveals this truth. A few specific things. The government is proposing a so-called five-year burial of people who were killed after the war, buried for 50 years, but the balance does not propose any additional financial means to do so. Secondly, through the government's declaration last year, it proposes a whole range of responsibilities; it places the whole type of responsibility of this project on the Commission for Hidden Cemeteries. However, this Commission does not receive any additional resources in the budget or in the balance sheet. Thirdly - the government is completely ignoring all those victims and also living opponents in the revolution and the anti-revolution. Of course, who will object to the fact that the past is well researched and established. Every citizen in democracy has the right to think that way or to think the opposite. Each of us should fight to have those on the other shores, that we have all those on the other shores, the opportunity to express our views clearly and loudly. I would say that after half a century of ideological coercion, it is time for the budget to take care of all citizens in the same way and not only of its own. When the National Assembly last year, the so-called President of the National Assembly, the Attorney General and the Director of Police, after the discovery of the cemetery in Slovenia Bistrica from the Information Television Conference, made a media event, with the announcement of a whole series of fiscal measures, almost nothing has happened since then. As we must understand, it is a fact that no one is investigating the criminal history of these events. Unfortunately, the budget also does not include any additional money for this project. I could continue to list things that belong to that category, but I won't, because you've heard enough. You'll say, at least some where the country should take the funds for the needs I'm talking about. Some speakers before me pointed to some options and sources of income that the government has ignored or even bypassed. I could say that there are still a lot of fat cows in our government that are visible, but, apparently, the financial authorities are invisible. The government would have for all, both for citizens living in poverty and for those who have been killed, if it had their priorities properly built and stopped funding certain things that are already across the borders of culture, taste, statehood and even anti-Slovenian. Let me say this in the end. It is not possible to collect honours, piettes and equality of citizens with money. They support themselves, not only with the money of the state, but also with civil society, upright citizens. There is a possible partnership here that does not appear in the budget or elsewhere. Let me do it again. Ideological terrorism must finally stop and give all citizens the opportunity to share their views and demands. I hope that one day we will come to this, because this is the only way we will be able to talk about reconciliation and all other things and about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The discussions below are limited to 5 minutes by Members and Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I therefore conclude the general debate. As with the draft budget, we are also moving on to the debate on individual parts of the national budget's balance sheet. As an individual part, it is considered to be a general part, a specific part and a development programme plan. We are moving on to the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Anybody want a word? I don't have any written reports. Thank you very much. So I can conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. I invite fellow Members and Members of Parliament to the Chamber because we will decide on the general work of the proposal for a rebalancing. Your Honor! Once again, I ask you to join us in the Chamber because we are in the decision-making phase and will vote on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. We therefore decide on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. 37 votes against 5. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendments to the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing. The amendments are recorded in the review of the amendments of 10.7.2002. Another explanation: in accordance with Rule 225 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will lead the debate through individual sub-programmes within the framework of the individual budgetary user to which the amendments are tabled. I place in the debate with the user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia to the sub-programme "support to Slovenians in exchange and abroad". Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 11 votes against 36. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, an amendment to the sub-programme "Operation of Services and Public Institutions" has been tabled by the same parliamentary group, which amends with the date of 9.7.2002. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 13 votes to 40. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. For the same user, a SDS amendment was submitted to the sub-programme for the restructuring of agriculture and food. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 12 votes against 42. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, where two amendments to the sub-programme "investment maintenance and construction of state roads" are tabled; the proposer of both amendments is the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that. I would ask, respectfully, the esteemed and lofty government, on the basis of what arguments, under point 2 of this amendment, which I have proposed, to take on one small item on page 26 million and then to give them for new priorities. Why did you do that? Do you know what part this is about, what this is about, or what you've done in your mind, "which half of us are going to take away." 60 poor millions have been earmarked for one urgent project, which will all collapse now. Now it doesn't matter to a lot of people because they don't need it, but there's a lot of economic damage. I told you last time, even crime, because they don't fix certain things in time, and every year it's just more damage. With some minimal resources, something else could be resolved in the first phase, and then no more can be done. Then there are substantially higher costs. Now I would ask why this item had to be reduced by half and why new priorities should be opened. And is it not because something new happens at the time after the adoption of the budget? I admit that there are new priorities. But these priorities can be possible for 500 million possible for a billion. And I ask you, Mr Minister, whether you could not demand that 500 million or billions of dollars for some extraordinary, urgent, new projects or new priorities be provided from other resources, or whether we do not have such funds in the state budget. I think we have them. Why not from those resources? Why it is necessary to delete the urgent priorities that we have barely worked out and the actual delineation of these programmes would cause additional economic damage to Slovenia. Why are you doing this? That's what I'm interested in. And tell me, for the first time, why you've cut by half and why you're not looking for resources from other budget sources that are designed to do so. If there are emergencies, there are emergencies, there are new priorities that I understand can happen within three, four months. I don't know. It seems to me that we have some kind of reserve fund or whatever we already have in this country. I don't know why not from this fund when it comes to emergencies. I would ask you to explain this to me, if possible, if it is possible that I will be able to give this same opinion and your highly esteemed explanation to the citizens who live in this area and who have already been beaten a hundred times already and will still be. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Minister of Transport, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for asking, too. Of course, all sections that are in the 2002 budget and for the remaining years are also in some way a priority. All these sections and many others are top priority. However, when we need to reduce the budget for this year, we have seen mainly from this point of view that the start of reconstruction of some sections is delayed, some reconstructions are also delayed for a longer period, especially those that are not prepared, where documentation or other, or the purchase of land and so on is not prepared enough. In any case, however, it is not in any way a deletion of individual sections from the budget. It's just a little bit of a delay. Of course, and this will be the biggest problem to resolve in the projected budget cuts for 2003. This is where they'll be able to get in trouble.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much. You want to replicate, Mr. Kelemina? Mr. Kelemina, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your answer, Your Honor. Well, it is true, if there is a balance, it is necessary to reduce certain items in some way. But, see, Minister Rob talked about that some investment transfers and so on did not essentially decrease and that everything else was the same or even increased. It's purely misleading, because that's not true. I will now prove to you on a specific case, and this is not the only one, it is huge, that this is not true, that certain investment transfers have also been reduced by half or completely discontinued, so to speak. In addition, new priorities have opened up, and, in general, Mr Presečnik, your share of the budget has been reduced by 2 billion tolars or more by 2 billion tolars. As we may have allowed, I do not imagine, once we have determined, that the entire national assembly has found this, when adopting the budget 2000 and all the years before and back, that certain projects are necessary because there is, I think, then some economic damage is going on. But, look, I've told you a hundred times, if we do some kind of program, let's say it's a road program, a national programme of this, the one, the other area to do then, to adopt other laws, to make dynamics, and so on, these things shouldn't change anymore. We shouldn't change, and that's not what I'm for. And I've never been to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, like some people do with bags around there or walk around a lot, and they change priorities from day to day. I won't do it because I'm ashamed. A lot of MPs, a lot of mayors, and they go around the ministry with bags and they always set new priorities. That's absurd, and I'm not gonna let that happen, and I'm not gonna dare go in there alone and beg for some road. We need to have a program and we need to know according to the program how certain things are being done, and then we're all quiet and we're waiting for this to happen. But in the meantime, we have other things to worry about, how we will provide the means, how we will allow a lot of other things to be done in this country, how other policies will be formed, and how we will then go to the Ministry, to individual ministries, to influence the individual departments, with our authority, and, I don't know, threats or anything else to achieve our interests. It's a wrong policy, a wrong way to work. I would not let any MP come to the Ministry if I were to decide on these matters, and no mayor and no one. The program, the project approved in the National Assembly, and just implement, absolutely nothing else. But these are speculations, absolutely nothing else is done in this country than speculation itself. And that's a great deal of rudeness and audacity that this authority allows itself. I disagree, and I will never agree, and I will say much more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Forgive my intervention, which is actually procedural. I would like to propose what has just been done so that, in each amendment, the Ministry responsible for this does not support the amendment to tell us why it does not oppose it. Because otherwise we are witnessing a ridiculous situation in which the amendment is explained here, and we never get a look at the government. But it's not enough for the government to tell us "I can't do this" or anything we've heard in the past. I'd really like to get a qualitative answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. First, on the amendment to the sub-programme for investment maintenance and construction of state motorways, under order number 1. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 9 to 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the amendment under 1 to the sub-programme has not been adopted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 11 votes against 41. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. I have to apologize. On page 3, I forgot to put to the vote an amendment to the sub-programme "rural development". On page 3 of the review before this amendment, which we have now decided on. We have concluded the debate and we have not carried out the vote. That is why I am putting to the vote an amendment to the sub-programme "rural development" of the same parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 6 votes against 38. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Mr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask what happened to my simple proposal. Will we hear any explanation from the government? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u56	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u57	Will we hear an explanation of why the government does not support such a proposal? But ladies and gentlemen are here to explain why not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u58	Dr. Bernick, I give my word to anyone who takes the floor. We do not have a definition in the review that the government does not support the amendments, and it is correct that your question to the ministers to give you an answer here, but I did not get any sign, so I concluded the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u59	If you allow, let's save time and money so that ladies and gentlemen don't sit here without a hook; we'd probably rather be in the official and working room instead of explaining it to us. But here we are developing some kind of dialogue, and this seems completely democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much. We are with the user Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. An amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia has been submitted to the sub-programme "planning, water protection and water management". I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 10 votes to 40. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. An amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia has been submitted to the sub-programme "social protection of persons with disabilities". Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 9 votes against 39. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The last amendment, which was tabled with the user of the Slovenian Cultural Heritage Administration, to the sub-programme "the immovable cultural heritage", is the proposed parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm concluding the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 11 votes against 41. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have concluded the debate and the decision on the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the specific work as a whole. We're voting. We vote on the specific work as a whole. There are 56 of us present, 40 votes against 15. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that a specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Anybody want a word? Because no, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There were 55 votes in favour, 45 against 9. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have therefore concluded the decision on individual parts of the proposal for a rebalancing. Despite the fact that we have not accepted any of the amendments, I ask whether the remuneration and expenditure balance is harmonised. [[Yes, it ……]] Thank you very much. Therefore, since the budget is harmonised, we are moving on to a decision on the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 of us present. 43 votes against 13. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the government very much. And we're moving on to 18. At the end of the day, that is to say the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2002 and 2003, the swift procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does a representative or a representative of the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered that proposal and adopted the following conclusions after discussion. In order to propose to the national assembly that that proposal should be considered and adopted by means of a rapid procedure together with the amendment drawn up by the Committee. The law is needed for the realisation of the balance sheet itself, which has just been adopted. That is why I do not see any major reasons for the broader debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I did not receive written applications for the debate. Therefore, the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I therefore conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. There is no review of the amendments, the basic law has three articles. That is why we will hold a debate and a decision under the articles separately. An amendment to Article 2 shall be submitted to the Committee. To Article 3, the amendment of the Group of Members for a new Article 3 with the first-signed Mr Sam Bevk. I am putting to the debate Article 1 of which there is no amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to decision on Article 1. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 43 votes against 5. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting Article 2 and the amendment of the Committee to this article, which is editorial in nature. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 42 votes against 6. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 2 as a whole. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. The amendment by the first-signed Mr Bevk to the Group of Members should not be an amendment to the new Article 3, since Article 3 states that this law shall enter into force the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, but a new Article 2nd in order to be properly tabled. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I ask or suggest that we hear the government's opinion on this amendment, because I personally believe that, given that the second half of the year has been pointless and that it is not serious to change the rules of conduct during the year. That's why I'm asking for the government's opinion. Before that, I don't think it would make sense to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, first I'll technically clear up the motions. This is an amendment to a new Article 2a, not an amendment to Article 3, but a new Article 2a, that we know what we are deciding. I am now opening the debate on the amendment proposal for a new Article 2. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much, I thank you for your warning and I propose that the National Assembly, despite the concerns of Comrade Puck, Chairman of the Finance Committee, support this amendment. As far as I know, neither the Committee on Finance nor the Government have yet defined themselves before this amendment, and we cannot know either the position of the Committee or the opinion of the Government, but we can learn of the opinion of the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Culture. This solution, proposed by a group of 11 Members, has already been proposed in 2001 for the same law, is said to be the law on the implementation of the budget, and then the National Assembly has adopted this solution. This is because monuments owned by the local community are financed by the state and the local community equally, 50% by the municipality and 50% by the state. However, if these solutions were not adopted for the years 2002 and 2003, then Article 26 of the Law on Community Financing would enter into force, which would then mean that some monuments, depending on the municipality in which they are located - some monuments would have this happiness to be located in municipalities where the state could co-operate up to 70% of the funds and some monuments would have this disaster so that the state could, in that local community, fund them for only 10%. As cultural heritage is a matter of historical, cultural and civil interest in the public interest, we believe that such equal and equal treatment of cultural heritage throughout the country would be the right solution. Let me also say that last December's resolution was supported by the Finance Committee of this National Assembly, but unfortunately that was not supported in the plenary session at the time, I don't know why, even though I read that Magnography, but the opponents did not have very convincing arguments. Let me add this, in the interest of this amendment, that this same solution is practically implemented by the proposal for a law on the so-called cultural tolar, which was tabled by the Group of Members of the government's parties in the parliamentary procedure in April. It's called LDS, the United List, SLS and DesUS. Members of these four parties then introduced this law, and we wrote exactly this solution in this law. And if Mr Pucko says that he would like to hear the government's opinion, the government is this law, the real law on cultural tolar has been supported and this solution has also been supported, which would have entered into force with 1.1.2004. It is therefore the opinion of the 11 Members that this solution should also apply for the years 2002 and 2003, because they would have an exception. Until 2001 it has gone according to the principle that we propose. Then two years would have some strange solution, some uneven solution to the monuments and since 2004 again as we propose for 2002 and 2003. For these reasons, I propose that you support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The Government of this amendment does not support it for two reasons. The first reason is that the Law on the financing of municipalities provides for a system of financing or co-financing of investments at municipal level. If and when the law on the financing of cultural programmes is adopted and a different funding regime for such programmes is laid down, then those arrangements will apply. However, I believe that the law on the implementation of the budget does not systematically interfere with the law on the financing of municipalities. Another reason why the government does not support this amendment is that we are changing the system of financing investments in the middle of the year when the budget is already being implemented. Public calls for co-financing of investments at municipal level for 2002 have been made. I think the contracts are in the process of signing. A change in the system would result in the cancellation of the public tenders already made, the conclusion of contracts that have already been signed and the reopening of the procedure. To the extent that we wish to establish such a system for 2003, this is, of course, subject to the reservation referred to in point 1, possible at the time of amending the budget for 2003, which we will bring into the Assembly of States in the autumn, and will, of course, be necessary, as this time, to open the law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. In order to avoid two levels of misunderstandings in the implementation of Mr Bevek, this is only possible. Firstly, the law on the so-called cultural tolar has not been adopted and does not have only literally such solutions as you have said, Mr Bevk, because variations in the percentage funding of municipalities - a country very differently defined, ownership-related, agreements and only exceptionally as an option can also allow such solutions. But, as has already been pointed out by the government, we have not yet considered this solution. At the same time, there is another deception that financial, or the consequences of reallocation should certainly be, but we are talking about accepted and certainly already under way funding, because such dictions could create new imbalances, which would mean not only interference with the plans that they are, or in the works that are taking place, but also to prevent them, because a literal understanding of 50/50 could mean the destruction of all those solutions where 30, 70 are in favour of the community or the state, 20, 80, etc. etc. I think it would be to face an unsystemic solution and to destroy not only 2002 but 2003 as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Amendment for new Article 2. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 11 votes against 37. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 3 which is not an amendment. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on Article 3. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall. I'm asking for your attention. We are moving on to a decision on Article 3. We'll vote next time. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. I'm moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 44 votes against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that a second reading amendment was adopted to the proposal for a law, namely Article 2. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this Article, please do so, and before asking whether anyone might want to discuss the proposal in full. [[No, no, ……]] I ask the representative of the secretariat whether he is coordinated. Thank you very much, yes. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 43 votes against 8. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Compensation of Victims of War and Post-war Violence. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, representatives and representatives of the government! That draft law, which was submitted in a rapid procedure procedure, was considered by the Committee at the first meeting of the 26th meeting and in a rather interesting debate, and after consultation with the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, it was concluded that a certain amendment to Article 1 should be drafted, in particular because of this, I think the objective of this amendment would be to provide the State with a subsidiary guarantee in the event of the insolvency of the Slovenian Indemnity Society. I propose to the National Assembly that the Act, together with the amendment of the Committee, be considered and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give my word to Members and Members; I have not received written applications for the debate and therefore the debate is limited to five minutes. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. The bill before us on amendments and additions to the law on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence is, in my opinion, again one of these classical, traditional manoeuvres that this government has been implementing to somehow try to fill some of the voids of some of the promises it has already made to Slovenian citizens, beneficiaries. I hope that this amendment of this law will not make it even harder for beneficiaries to come to their rights. In fact, we know that it is happening that precisely because of the extremely severe financial crisis that has reigned in this country for some time now, of course, extremely disguised, skillfully and so forth, now things have somehow begun to unfold and show up in their reality and problems. So I expect that this change and this manipulation, which has been re-entitled by the authorities, will not help to make it even harder for the injured to get to their rights. From this point of view, however, I will support this proposal, even though I do not believe this authority at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I am concluding the general debate and moving on to a second reading, this is for discussion and decision-making on individual articles and amendments tabled. The basic text of the amendment of the law is Article 2. An amendment to Article 1 shall be tabled, of which the committee is the proposer. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on an amendment that changes the article. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. Could I have your attention, please? There's enough of us in the hall. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 1. The proposer shall be the committee. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 1 has been amended accordingly. In order to discuss and decide, I shall give Article 2 which governs the date of validity of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, in favour of 42 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendment to Article 1 was adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If one of the qualified candidates wants to table an amendment, please do so, and before that, I ask if anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. [[No, no, ……]] There is mutual compliance with the provisions of the law. Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government and our secretariat very much for their cooperation. And we are going through or we are going back to the 10th item of the agenda. We finish the work, as shown in the purified agenda, at 19:00 or until the end of the consideration of points 17, 18, 19, if this takes place after 19:00. But we're working normally until 7:00, and we're going to continue to deal with the points that are ahead of us. So we're going to point 10. I think the Members are still looking at me a little bit. The agreement was that if the points relating to the proposal for a rebalancing were not completed by 19:00, the work would continue until these three points were completed. In any case, we work until 7 p.m. on Wednesday, Thursday or tomorrow, until 2 p.m. as usual. So we're going to move on to 10. Agenda item — Defence of the Safety Act before IONIZING SEVANCE AND NUCLEAR SECURITY, rapid procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Minister for Environment and Space, mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Just two items. I think it is a valuable time before the end of this session, so I propose that because a very intensive debate has been held at several meetings of the Infrastructure Committee, we have come to a consensus everywhere on all the amendments, I propose that we move on to the consideration of individual articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Branko Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. At its 29th meeting, on 6.6., 13.6. and 4.7., the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment considered a proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, which was forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a rapid procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government replaced the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation, nuclear safety of 9.4.2002 by a new text of the bill, which it had tabled in the light of a rapid procedure on 27.5.2002. The drafter of the law justified the rapid procedure by stating that the draft law was part of the European Union's legal order and that the Republic of Slovenia had committed itself to adopting it at negotiating points, including the necessary sub-legislative rules by the end of 2002 at the latest. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Council for Law and Legal Affairs, which, in relation to the proposed procedure for the adoption of the law, found that the Government had taken into account in the text of the bill most of the comments that had been made on the consideration of the original text of the bill. The secretariat reiterated that this is a system law which regulates in an integrated manner a very difficult and professionally difficult area of environmental protection, and therefore drew attention to some of the inconsistencies in the law itself which the Committee has taken into account in the preparation of its amendments. In the context of the general debate, in which representatives of the Slovenian Ecological Movement, the Nuclear Power Plant and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety also participated, some of the inconsistencies in the law which the Committee has taken into account in the preparation of its amendments, as well as the government in its amendments, were highlighted. The Committee supported the rapid adoption of this law and proposes to the National Assembly to support the amendments to Articles 3, 15, 46, 50, 133, 139 and 141 of the Act. At the end of the discussion, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly the adoption of legislation against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, together with the amendments of the Committee and the amendments of the Government supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Kelemina will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Just for a short while. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u80	Can you come to the payphone?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u81	I'm gonna go straight ahead for a while, because I can see that everyone's in a hurry to take a vacation. Look, it's an important marriage. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we are assessing that this is an important law, and we will certainly support it in its majority work, although perhaps not all solutions are best, and we hope that the law will be adequate enough to be implemented. So let us not hold back to the Government that this bill has submitted to us for consideration, more indignantly that we have not had this law before, and we do not really know where the reasons were that this law has not been submitted before and that it has not already been adopted. In short, it is an important document, not only for Slovenia, but also to bring these requirements into line with the European Community. And we expect, of course, that this law will contribute to nuclear safety in Slovenia and in general in the European space. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u82	Thank you, colleague Kelemina. Anyone else? May I conclude that other parliamentary groups do not wish to present their views? The MPs and the MPs? [[They don't want to.]] Then I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a law on radiation protection and nuclear safety. I invite colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall because we will decide; now we are not enough to decide. We have many amendments, gathered on 26 pages. Please, if you get this overview of the amendments that have been tabled. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to join us in the hall. There's not enough of us right now. By 19:00 we have the opportunity to bring this law under the roof, and then tomorrow we do not really have many difficult drafts. That would be great. Please! Can the secretaries of the parliamentary groups and leaders call their colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber? Otherwise, I'm gonna find out that we're gonna have a 10-minute break if it doesn't work out differently. As I say, I'll wait a minute or two, then I'll order a break. For the first time, I will point out our presence by putting to the vote the proposal that, in accordance with the second indent of Article 189, after the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles to which they have been tabled, we decide together on those articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. This proposal will not be adopted if one third of those present oppose it. I am putting this proposal to the vote and, at the same time, I recognize the presence in the Chamber. I'll just wait a minute, then I'll order a 10-minute break, because next time we'll be inconclusive. I suggest we take a second time to determine whether we are present or voting on the decision and then set aside 10 minutes of rest, take a few moments off and then make the necessary decisions in the majority. Let's vote again so we can set a break. I'm guessing we're not in the middle of anything else. It's 5:25. I'm taking ten minutes off. 17.35 will be decided in the third. At that time, I would ask everyone if you could alert your colleagues and colleagues to continue working until 7 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u83	I very much ask that you come to the Chamber, because we will vote on the procedural proposal for the third time, on the proposal to decide, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles, that we will discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. I very much ask that he come to the hall, because at the third vote, we will also determine the presence in the Chamber. This is the third time we have voted and decided on the proposal for a decision as presented. I ask your attention very nicely, because this is the third time we've voted, and I'd like to ask you to take your seats. Thank you very much. So this is the third time we've voted. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.( Against none.)]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the amendment review of 4.7.2002. Once again, I would like to ask for the necessary attention, which is a few votes ahead of us. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of Mr Kelemina to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. The vote was 7 to 37. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. There's 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at Article 3 and two amendments. Under 1 is an amendment to the government, under 2 amendments to the board. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There's 49 present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 4 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. It's all about the article. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 44 votes against none. The vote was 44.) [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at Article 5 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 6 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 9 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The first vote on the amendment was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall. I'd like some more attention, please. Second of all, I'd like to ask your attention. Second of all, we're voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. It's all about the article. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the 10th Article and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the proposal of the amendment of the government on page 4 of the review. I don't want to read because he's in a different article. In the review on page 4. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the government's amendment to the articles listed on page 4 of the review. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are under Article 12 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. Once again, I ask for a little attention, because we will be voting on the full article for the second time. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are with Article 13 and the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 14 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at Article 15 and two amendments. Under number one is the government's amendment, under two boards. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all, the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are with Article 17 and the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're with Article 18 and the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. I'm asking for your attention again. We'll vote on the amendment next time. We're voting. We'll vote next time. There are 49 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the 23rd and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The first vote on the amendment was not successful. Could I have your attention, please? Second time we vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. It's all about the article. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article has been adopted We're with Article 28 and the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? No, that's why we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. I'm asking for your attention again. Second time we vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 46 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. It's all about the article. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at the 31st and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're with Article 32 and the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. Second time we vote on the amendment. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're with Article 35 and the government's amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the 37th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the 38th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 44 votes against none. The vote was 44.) [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the 40th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. I'd like some more attention, please. This is the second time we've voted on the article. We're voting. This is the second time we've voted on the article. There are 47 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're in the 46th and 3rd Amendments. Under 1st Amendment to Mr Kelemina, for which withdrawal is announced, is under the 2nd Amendment of the Committee, under the 3rd Amendment of the Government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 11 votes against 33. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And then there's the amendment under 3. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are in the 50th and 3rd amendments of the committee and the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! The first vote on the amendment was not successful. May I have your attention, please? Let's vote on the amendment next time. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And then there's the amendment under 3. Let's vote! Let's vote! The first vote on the amendment was not successful. I would really like to ask for some more attention, because any re-voting takes some time. Let's vote on the amendment next time. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the 53rd and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're with Article 55 and the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. Secondly, we vote on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 59 and the amendment of Mr Kelemina and the Government to this article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The first vote was not successful again. I'm really asking for some more attention. Some of the pages of the amendments are still ahead of us. This work will no longer have to be carried out at the plenary session in the autumn. Second time we vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at the 60th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the 68th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. Let's vote next time! Second, let's vote on the whole article! Wishing the second vote had not been successful. At 1818 the third time, we are voting on the article as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u84	Please take your seats! We're voting. Article 68 is voted on in full for the third time. There are 52 present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at the 70th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 76 and the amendment of Mr Kelemina to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 5 votes against 36. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And the whole article. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 79 and the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at the 83rd and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There's 48 of us. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at the 85th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're with the 93rd and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're making a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're with Article 94 and the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at the 95th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are with Article 97 and the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That's why we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 99 and the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We're at the 101st and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. There's plenty of us in the hall, so I'd like some attention. We'll vote next time. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at the 102nd and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're making a decision. We're voting. There's 49 of us in attendance for 43, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. Fifty present, 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the 103rd and amendment of the government. A debate? [[No, no, ……]] Decision-making. We're voting. Attending 49, 43, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. May I have your attention, please? Second, we decide on the whole article. We're voting. We'll vote next time. 52 present, for 45, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at Article 108 and the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Forty-eight present, 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There's 51 of us in attendance for 45, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at the 110th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Attending 49, 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. 52 present, for 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're with article 111 and the government's amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That's why we decide. We're voting. There's 51, 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. The first vote was not successful, despite the fact that we have strengthened participation. This is the second time we've voted on the article. We're voting. 52 present, for 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at the 112th and amendment of the government. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There's 51, 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. Attending 49, 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at 114th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That's why we decide. We're voting. Fifty present, 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. And the article. We're voting. Fifty present, 43, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article has been adopted We're at 115th and the government's amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That's why we decide. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. For 43, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! 51 present. It's 44 against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at 117th and the government's amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That's why we decide. Let's vote! 53 present. For 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! Fifty present. For 45, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're at the 120th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? No, that's why we decide. Let's vote! I'm at 55. For 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! I'm at 55. For 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 123 and the amendment of Mr Kelemina to this article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u85	To this end, Article 125 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u86	123.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u87	I'm sorry. I was planning on 125th. I heard wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u88	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 123. Let's vote! 56 present. 17 to 34. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. And the whole article. Let's vote! 52 present. 43 to 6. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 125 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u89	That is all I wanted to say is that this law is in one piece a lost opportunity to deal with some of the problems related to radiation control issues and nuclear and nuclear matters - nuclear security in an efficient way. Here's an amendment and an article that says we have two ministries and two authorities to oversee it. The trend of all that we listened to a few months ago in the National Assembly was to bring together as much as possible. And I certainly expect that control of this would be significantly more effective if the responsibilities of these authorities which supervise from the ministries were in one part, which is not the problem, exactly this article and if it were not, in fact, those who supervise it, at the same time, those who cause potential problems. Thus, the Ministry of Health will monitor the X-rays and the Ministry of Energy and the nuclear facilities. I have come to so much that I simply say that the rapid adoption of laws is so far from this sensitivity, which was 20 years ago, when discussions were opened about the need to organise effective control of these technology-intensive devices.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Even in our parliamentary group, I think that we have repeatedly pointed out these things in the law-making process itself, so that these things need to be defined more clearly and that these powers should also be demarcated. However, the Ministry does not agree to these proposals and insists on its solutions. I also agree that he is really in a hurry now to adopt this legislation and so on, particularly because of these, I think, too many planned vacations and so on. I think it will be necessary if we want to ensure greater distinctions between these certain institutions and also to ensure greater security in general and to give these powers to those who can exercise control and nuclear safety independently; perhaps in the future, when more time is needed, a change will take place. It is also possible to ask or ask questions and also in our sector how this is regulated in other countries. Although the Minister has repeatedly, and even if I am not mistaken, government representatives have warned that these things can be roughly as regulated in other countries as we have now proposed. But still, I'm just joining in with what Mr. Skolcz said that - and some others probably - that some things should be demarcated. Unfortunately, there was no government hearing. In short, I will not support this amendment either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. 41 to 7. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. It's all about the article. We're voting. 51 present, for 40, for 3. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the 129th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're moving on to amendment. We're voting. 52 present, for 46, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. It's all about the article. We're voting. Fifty present, 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are in Article 133 and the two amendments, under 1 is the amendment of the Committee, which is linked to the amendment already adopted to Article 46 and under the two amendments of the Government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. I'm sorry, Mr. Skull, I didn't see you in time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. This is, of course, the point where I think it needs a national assembly which is vehement in this matter, and I think it is right that it is vehement, an explanation. Will the authorities thus put in place be sufficient to ensure that this resolution is effective? It is true that there are different solutions around the world related to nuclear and other radiation control. It is true, however, that nuclear-developed countries have completely independent controls and are united. I ask the Ministry whether there is any state in the world where, I will say, within the same manner, energy and nuclear security are said to be in the same sector, without this complete autonomy and without the decision being submitted to the Minister at a second stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u95	Mr Školč probably wanted to discuss some other article, which had nothing to do with this 133rd. But if I already answer this question, which is not related to Article 133, which is currently being voted on, it is necessary to say that the European requirement is that the Authority is independent of the decision-making method for technical requirements. And this is the first time we have brought this into this law; now in existing legislation, which is from the early 1980s, of course, this is not regulated. In other words, I believe that - in short, but above all, environmental competences. As far as health is concerned, but as previously said, in the original discussion, the one that I did not respond to, it is necessary to say that, although in Europe, such bodies have one such body, i.e., in France and Finland, so both for radiation and for nuclear safety together. Everywhere else, in other countries they have two, and in the UK they have four. The approaches to organising this are different. We've discussed these things a lot. I can tell you that we've been talking about this in the professional public for a year and we've chosen this concept that's ahead of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please. However, the debate is back to the first reading, where we are talking about general interests and we are in second reading. Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u97	Here are the amendments that talk about it. I'm sorry it's going so fast and so on. As it is written, it is, of course, a misleading vis-a-vis to the foreign public, because this is a matter of the Ministry of the Environment, and of course I agree with that. At this point, however, the government organisation is set up in such a way that this Ministry of Environment and Space is also responsible for energy. So, in this case, if we simplify it, for a nuclear power plant in Krske. To put it another way, if the organization hadn't been put like this, then I wouldn't have asked that question. There was no answer to that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First of all, the amendment under 1 which is linked to the already adopted amendment of the committee. Let's vote! 51 present. For 40, versus 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There's 46 present. For 38, against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! 52 present. For 45, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at the 134th and amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? No, that's why we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against no one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting! There are 52 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at the government's amendment to Chapter 14. Anybody want to talk? No, that's why we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and the address has been changed. We are at Article 138 and the amendment of the Government, which is linked to the amendment already adopted to Article 125. Anybody want to talk? No, that's why we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 51 present. 41 to 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. 52 present. For 44, against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at Article 139 and 2 of the amendment. Under 1 is the amendment of the committee to the amendment of the government, which is located under order number 2. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. For 43, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. And the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Two amendments have been tabled under Article 141. One is in the review, the proposaler is the committee and we will vote on it first. There is also an amendment on the table, which is proposed by Ambassador Jože Ašič. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing it. We're moving on to a decision. First of all, the amendment under review, of which the committee is the proposer. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. It was 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] We got the wrong vote. First of all, we must vote on the amendment of Ambassador Ašić, who is as an amendment to the Committee's amendment. I therefore declare the first vote invalid. We are voting on the amendment of Ambassador Auschwitz. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 36 votes against 3. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment of the board. We're voting. 51 present, 44, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 51 present, 43 to 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We also held a debate on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. There's 50 of us in attendance for 44 against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We're moving on to the title debate. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. Forty-seven present, 43, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, amendments were adopted to a large number of articles. If qualified candidates want to table an amendment, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask the representative of the secretariat, is the law harmonised? [[Yes, it ……]] Thank you very much. This way we can move on to a decision on the proposal of the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u99	Thank you. Procedural proposal, Madam Vice-President. We are assessing in the Slovenian National Party, and I think that one of our colleagues may also agree that, given that we have already been prepared, we would continue our work with at least 11 and 12 points. That's my procedural proposal. Then we only have five points left. That would give us a bigger maneuver tomorrow, and maybe Saturday, I don't know that. I think we've been confident about this, and that's why I'm suggesting it. However, it seems to me that it is very important that some of these remaining laws go through consideration and that they are adopted as properly as possible and as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I think that the procedural proposal, at least as far as my assessments are concerned, is true. I will, of course, put it to the vote of Members and Members. The 11th point is very unrequited, and also 12. I think we can finish very quickly, and this will really allow us to finish the work tomorrow and have an extraordinary session. I am putting Mr Barovic's procedural proposal to the vote to work and conclude the 11th and 12th points of the extraordinary meeting. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 30 votes to 14. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. So we're moving on to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION LAW ON EQUIVATION WITH GENESIS CHANGED ORGANISM. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The draft law was considered by the Infrastructure Committee as the parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss, we are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. Only five amendments have been tabled in the third reading, so respectable colleagues and colleagues in the vicinity are really asking to follow the wishes of the majority in this House and we are trying to make this quick decision. We are therefore moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 9.7.2002. I am putting forward an amendment to Article 18 to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! Let's vote! The first vote on the amendment was not successful. I think there's enough of us in the hall. There's enough of us in the hall. If everyone tried and pressed any of the keys, the vote would be valid. Next time we decide on the amendment. Let's vote! Let's vote! Unfortunately, the second vote was not successful either. The National Assembly has decided to hold these two hearings. Members and Members are on their way. I think we're joining us. In 10 minutes, we'll vote on the amendment for the third time, and then I think we could finish the job.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u101	I hope that by the third vote, we will be able to decide on the amendment to Article 18 and if we succeed, we would really try to end the 11th point and proceed with point 12 tomorrow. If you prepare for the vote, for the third time we will decide on the amendment of the government to Article 18. There are 47 of us in the hall. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment to Article 18. We're voting. There are enough of us in the Chamber, so I ask that we can still be so serious and vote on the five amendments in the context of the third reading and then finish for the 11th point and, of course, continue tomorrow with the 12th point. So we are trying to re-vote the amendment to Article 18. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There are 48 of us here. For 42, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are under Article 30 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, that's why we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 46 of us present. For 41, against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are under Article 40 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, that's why we decide. We're voting. There's 46 of us. For 41, against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are with Article 44 and the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? No, that's why we decide. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are under Article 56 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the secretariat whether the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to a full vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 47 of us in attendance for 42, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. An additional decision is still on the proposal for a law, proposed by the Infrastructure Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on an additional decision. We're voting. There are 47 of us in attendance for 40, against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u102	I would like to make a procedural suggestion, given that, I'll say, the power, perhaps even the mind, is a little bit hung up on us to decide together that these points, so that you don't decide for yourself to do this next point tomorrow. To conclude, I would also suggest that we take group pictures and thus help those who are here who work, so that we are not rated as those who do not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-11-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Since we have taken a decision by the National Assembly to make also the 12th point, I am making a procedural proposal to carry it out tomorrow, for a vote and for a decision by the National Assembly. So, a procedural proposal to end work and point 12 will be discussed and completed tomorrow. We're voting. Please, however, let us make a valid decision. The decision of the National Assembly was to carry out the 12th point. I ask that we vote on this the second time, so that we do the 12th point tomorrow. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 37 votes against 9. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. Allow me to make another announcement. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we begin our consideration of the 20th item of the agenda, these are elections and appointments, and then we continue our consideration of the 12th item of the agenda up to and including 16. Thank you so much and good night!
