ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u1	I invite everyone to come to the grand debate hall of the National Assembly. We will continue our 13th session of the National Assembly. We will move on to item 1a of the agenda - the continuation of the procedure under Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and the establishment of their areas. I'm asking you to come to the hall, because I'm about to find out where you are. I ask colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members to come to the large debate room. As we say, we will continue the suspension of the 13th session. Please, if you'll come and stick to this good tradition, we'll start the sessions right away. Please, if you can put the cards in the voting devices, so we will have an approximate review of the presence in the hall. Messengers and Members, a good and pleasant and successful day I wish to all! We will continue the 13th meeting of the National Assembly, which was suspended last night following the consideration of the questions and initiatives put forward. We move on to the 1st A-point of the agenda - REVENUE OF PROCESSING 13. AND 14. Article of the Act on the procedure for the establishment of municipalities and the determination of their areas. First, we will determine the presence in the hall. Please report your presence in the hall by pressing the "quorum" button. There are 46 present; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. Several colleagues and colleagues apologized. Let me read them: for the morning part of the meeting of colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič, as well as colleague Jelko Kacin, for the whole day of work colleagues Weber, Delak, Jakič, Lavrinc, Merlo, Školč, Terčon, colleague of Orazmova, colleague of Peterle, Jerovšek, Kontič, Beuermann, Kramberger and colleague mag. It's a trifle. As it is said, the continuation of the 13th session will begin with the consideration of item 1a of the agenda, that is, the continuation of the procedure under Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Communities and the establishment of their Areas, and in order of order. Before we begin this item, I will request the attention of the National Assembly. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The opinion and the proposal regarding the continuation of the procedure were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I'm asking the government representative if she wants a word. [[He does.]] Madam Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u2	The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, in accordance with the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and the Designation of Their Areas, drawn up an opinion on the proposed proposals for the establishment of municipalities and the identification of their areas, the modification of the areas of municipalities and the change of names and seats. Accordingly, the Government has drawn up the following proposals. In particular, she proposed to the National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u3	Allow me to interrupt, Madam Secretary of State. Please don't make everybody knock in the hall. Please, if you'll just wait a little longer. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you. Accordingly, the Government has drawn up proposals accordingly to establish that none of the proposals submitted for the establishment of a new municipality fulfils the conditions laid down by law and that the procedure for the modification of areas in the three proposals for the establishment of areas or the establishment of settlements, as proposed in our opinion, continues. And the government is also proposing to the National Assembly to find that none of the proposals tabled to change the status of the municipality and to establish a municipal municipality does not meet the conditions laid down by law, nor does it take initiatives to change names, except for the case of Šentjur at Celje, where we have accepted the warning and propose alignment with the name in force. It is worth noting that the government has considered the criteria set out in the law, in particular Articles 13 and 13a, which lay down the criteria for the establishment of municipalities as a whole and has also taken into account the position of the Constitutional Court in the preparation of its opinion, in particular the position concerning the number of inhabitants, where the Constitutional Court also stated that the number of inhabitants is an important element of the local community - which should allow local self-government to be exercised - and that a municipality with a low number of inhabitants cannot ensure the effective performance of public tasks of local importance. We reiterate that the criteria in question have been considered as a whole in order to ensure that the decision on the establishment of municipalities is as arbitrary as possible and thus prevents the emergence of functionally inappropriate municipalities. The provisions of Articles 13 and 13a, which have also been dealt with several times before the Constitutional Court, are based on the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which states that local self-government denotes the right and ability of local authorities to regulate and carry out a substantial part of public affairs within their respective tasks and for the benefit of their population. In drawing up the opinion, the Government also identified which criteria could be taken into account relatively, particularly those relating to the provision of public services, while, of course, other criteria, especially with regard to municipal equipment, where there is no such level, the government did not consider these conditions absolutely. On the basis of this, the Government has drawn up an opinion as submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. This was therefore the position of the government. In the National Assembly, the Committee on Internal Policy considered the material. I'm asking the representative of the competent body if he wants a word. [[He does.]] Please, you have the floor, Comrade Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. In accordance with the second point of the decision on the continuation of the procedure adopted by the National Assembly, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, as the parent labour force, followed the procedure laid down in Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and the establishment of their areas at its 19th extraordinary meeting, on 14 February. You have received an opinion in writing, so I will not verbally repeat it. The Internal Policy Committee also considered the opinion and the Government's proposal drawn up by the Government on the basis of Articles 10 and 12 of the Law on Procedures and Conditions for the Establishment of Communities and Their Areas and in accordance with the second point of the decision of the National Assembly. Members of the home working body also received a proposal for a decision drawn up on the basis of a proposal for an opinion and a government proposal under Article 13 of the Act and a motion for a referendum drawn up on the basis of the opinion and proposal of the Government in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on the Conditions and Procedures for the Establishment of Communities and Their Areas. On the basis of the debate, the Internal Policy Committee further defined the following conclusions to the opinion and the Government's proposal and, on the basis of the debate, adopted the following conclusions - for the first time: "The Committee proposes to the National Assembly to find that none of the proposals tabled for the establishment of a new municipality fulfils the conditions laid down by law." Second: "The Committee proposes to the National Assembly to continue the procedure for the change of areas following the proposal to designate the areas of the village of Hrastje and the municipality of Shenčur and its accession to the municipality of Kranj; the proposals for the establishment of the village of Lancova in the municipality of Ptuj, its accession to the municipality of Hajdin; the proposal for the establishment of the settlement of Sveti Lenart in the municipality of Železniki and its accession to the municipality of Škofja Loka." Thirdly: "The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it find that no proposals put forward to change the status of the municipality and to establish a city municipality meet the conditions laid down by law." Fourthly: "The Committee proposes to the National Assembly not to take initiatives to change the names of municipalities. He shall take the initiative to change the name of the municipality of Šentjur pri Celje as a warning for the harmonisation of the law with the municipal law." Petič: "The committee proposes to the National Assembly that due to the withdrawal of the proposal to establish a new Idrija municipality by the proponents, the Council of the Local Community of the Army and the Council of the Local Community, the city of Idrija finish the procedure." With regard to those decisions, the Committee adopted the following two other decisions. Firstly: "In order to adopt the proposal for decisions under points 1, 3, 4 and 5, a finding shall be drawn up on the basis of Article 13 of the Law on the Conditions and Procedures for the Establishment of Communities and the establishment of their Areas." Secondly: "A proposal for a decree shall be drawn up on the basis of Article 14 of the Law on the Conditions and Procedures for the Establishment of Municipalities and the Designation of Their Areas." In addition to that, the Internal Policy Committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee, on the basis of Articles 172 and 173 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, shall propose to the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and to adopt, for the purpose of determining their areas, a proposal for a decision under Article 13 of the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities, a decision under Article 13 of the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities, a decision in accordance with Article 13 of the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and a change in the status of Municipalities and a decision establishing a referendum and establishing a referendum area for the establishment or modification of areas under Article 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and for the establishment of their areas by which a referendum is carried out to determine the will of the inhabitants." Furthermore, the Internal Policy Committee adopted the following decision and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in preparing a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas, to take into account the initiative to change the name of the Municipality of Šentjur to the Municipality of Šentjur as a warning for the harmonisation of the law with the municipal law."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Trophynik. You presented the views of the Internal Policy Committee. I'm asking, does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] This will now give representatives of the groups an opportunity to present their views. I have before me the application of my colleague Barovic, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. I'm inviting him to the speaker room. And I ask if any of the other members of the Group wish to present their views. Collegiate Zupanova on behalf of New Slovenia. Anyone else then? That's it. There's gonna be a few more shows. First, my friend Barovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the executive branch, colleagues and colleagues! Package business in the economy or anywhere is not good. And to speak, to consider the development of a country in a package system, regardless of all the conditions that I will talk about later, is not good either. The criticism of the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group goes clearly and openly to the government, argued. Why? The conditions for establishing new congregations have been the same for many years. They missed out four, eight, six years ago, because anyway, they're very important today. Another time. As far as I was able to review all the materials available on the requirements of the local communities for the new municipalities, unfortunately I did not find that there was an expert analysis of the situation of the existing Slovenian municipalities and an expert analysis of what could or could not be done from so many and so many proposals for new municipalities. I am sure that among many suggestions there is one that is worthy of the establishment of a new congregation, but of course there are many others that we can rightly say, but according to the information we have that we cannot set up a new congregation. Slovenia - I am sure you all share my opinion - is too small to count 250, 300 or 400 municipalities. But it is strange that we have come to this knowledge after ten years of our country's independence. First year, we overlook the criteria, we establish new congregations, we miss the second term, we miss the criteria, we set up new congregations. Suddenly we came to the state that - and I'm happy, I also welcome representatives, probably local communities [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u9	I have to warn you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u10	That the upper part is full, not because of it, I'll say the bottom line. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u11	I just need to warn you for a second! [[...]] I'm obliged to do this, colleague Barovic, because of the precedent. I must always, like any president, ask that - of course, we welcome all those who are at the gallery and monitor our work - that they do not respond to Parliament's work in any way. But of course you're very welcome. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The next question is the issue that is being criticised or critical of the European Union - the issue of regionalisation, which is still unresolved in us, is also related to the establishment or reduction of the number of municipalities. Is the State, the Republic of Slovenia, now waiting for what instructions from Brussels, what regionalisation should be made to form new municipalities on the basis of regionalisation? Even more embarrassing is what we heard yesterday that local communities are voicing that they cannot develop infrastructure, that they cannot develop everything they need just because they are not congregations. Such a reason, according to the Slovenian National Party, is a disgrace. I spoke to one of my colleagues earlier, I will not say her name, a respectable colleague is from this House, and she said, "We, Members, have become a cleaning cordon in this National Assembly," which means that we are cleaning and regulating everything that has not been regulated in the past one, two or three mandates. While we agree with this opinion in the Slovenian National Party, we are protesting today that we are arguing today whether there are 48 new municipalities eligible or not when we did not respect the conditions required, two mandates back and today we are demanding that these conditions be respected. We understand and know that there is a large budget gap in our budget, that huge funds are needed if new municipalities are to be established. We also understand the needs and desires of developing infrastructure, that some local community, which is far enough or too far away, gets a new healthcare home. But these things, respected colleagues and colleagues, could be handled differently by the government and the government, despite the need to establish new congregations. In the meantime! Our position is clear. Firstly, it is not right to act in a way that we respect one time of the rules and the other time we do not respect the rules; secondly, we require professional analysis and adaptation, and harmonisation if we are already going to join the European Union, if this last year, if we do not know what our regionalisation will be like if we want to harmonise the municipalities with regionalisation and not vice versa, regionalisation based on existing municipalities should be regulated once and for all. This is the responsibility of the government, according to the Slovenian National Party. As the government says, "in the package no" to the new municipalities. We can't say "no" to the new municipalities in the package. However, the Slovenian National Party has the following position. As long as the government does not regulate the analytical image of this Slovenia, how many municipalities this Slovenia can have, logically connected, even in the regional system, the Slovenian National Party will not support any new municipalities or the abolition of the old. However, we demand that the government do an expert analysis for each congregation, for every local community that wants to become a new congregation. Not only do they have 4,897 inhabitants and that doesn't fit the conditions because they don't have 5,000 -- that's bullshit. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say again, we will object to any package operation in this National Assembly, so we will also oppose the package reception of new municipalities, as well as the package rejection of new municipalities. However, I call on the government and you, colleagues and colleagues, to call on the government in your implementation and to agree once in the area of regions, in the field of municipalities and on some analytical and professional foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. I give my word to my colleague Zupanov. It will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Once again, that there will be no misunderstandings, for ever, whoever comes to the National Assembly is welcome at the gallery, but must not, with signs or praises for the words spoken, advertise during the debate. Please, colleague Zupanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! Every four years, but one year before the local elections in accordance with the law and on the basis of the decision of the National Assembly, a procedure for the establishment of municipalities shall be initiated. That's how it's still going. Also last April, we adopted a decision in the National Assembly to initiate a procedure for the establishment of new municipalities and the establishment of their areas. In due time and in accordance with the law, 50 prospective stakeholders, future congregations, submitted their proposals. In November, the National Assembly adopted a decision on the continuation of the procedure, and all proposals went to the parent congregations where they were discussed at the general assemblies and were also given opinions by the municipal councils. All the material then went to the government and the government delivered an opinion and a proposal we have before us in mid-February. At the end of the 1950s, it is said in leaded times, that many congregations were abolished from 70 or more years of tradition. There were 62 socialist congregations, where individuals controlled the whole area. And a number of congregations were abolished among the suggestions we have today on the table. People were forced to do what they had been building for decades. With a new political regime in the 1990s, local self-government gained meaning. In 1994, 147 municipalities were established, and in 1998 45 more, so we now have 192, of which 95 are less than 5,000. I am also wondering whether, as legislators, we will prevent the further development of local self-government, which is one of the fundamental principles in the Member States of the Council of Europe, which means that citizens in local communities have the right to decide on the essential part of local public affairs. The co-decision of citizens and citizens on public matters comes directly from the constitutional right of citizens and citizens. If direct democracy is extremely important for national decision-making, it is even more important for decision-making within the local community. The ability of citizens and citizens to make direct decisions increases their interest in participating in local self-government matters and thus strengthens their effectiveness. We want to establish local self-government as an essential element of parliamentary democracy based on the principles of democracy and decentralisation of power. We want to make it possible to compare with our neighbours and Europe. We are aware, however, that these objectives need to be upgraded with new Council of Europe emphasis, in particular by efforts to strengthen the direct participation of citizens and citizens in local public life, by demarcating powers between the state and local communities, by reorganising public services in favour of the modern needs of local people, by building the legal basis of local self-government and by strengthening cross-border cooperation between local communities. Our customer, Nova Slovenija, supports the establishment of new municipalities, because we want as many people to participate in the management of public affairs as possible. We want the area to get closer to the people. We support the organization of people in their environment as they want, as they know it is best for them, or according to the Constitution and laws and not to the detriment of others. Our Group does not support the Government's conclusion that none of the 50 proposals fulfils certain conditions by law for the establishment of municipalities or for the modification of their areas. The government cites the number of inhabitants as the main argument. However, we know that in comparable countries, there are a higher number of municipalities with a population of up to 5,000. In Austria, for example, 91 percent of municipalities have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. In the Czech Republic 95 per cent, in Croatia 81, in France 95, in Germany 84 and in Slovenia only good 49. We do not agree with the decision taken in the package, but we want each municipality to be dealt with separately. Each proposal is followed by people and I think they deserve to be dealt with separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Zupanov. Mr Sušnik will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, after which he will be given the floor of his colleague Vnučec on behalf of the Youth Party's Group of Members. Comrade Sušnik, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear guests! On behalf of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, I inform this National Assembly and the Slovenian public that, irrespective of the Government's opinion, we will support all proposals for the establishment of municipalities, all proposals for the identification of their areas and all proposals for the modification of the areas of municipalities on which the procedure was launched last spring. I think that this makes it clear to the Slovenian public and also to this national assembly that we want to ensure, in particular, the equality of the initiators and the proposers who have given initiatives and proposals in the process initiated by the National Assembly in accordance with the law, as I have already said in the past year, in spring. We stress that the equality of all proponents and proponents is guaranteed by the Constitution and must be guaranteed by the Constitution. In our opinion, it is totally unacceptable that, during this term of office, the National Assembly, beyond the established practice of non-compliance with the legal criteria in terms of decision-making in the past mandate periods or in past procedures for the establishment of municipalities in this case, would completely change the practice and tighten the criteria and conditions for the establishment of new municipalities and thus the proposed changes. We are confident and support the efforts that are going in this direction, that neither the government nor the State Assembly with administrative intervention or otherwise cannot stop the process and trend of establishing new municipalities. It is our belief that the injustices that, as a result, have left an indelible impact on rural development. It is a solution to the consequences left in this space by the municipal system, which for many decades replaced the congregations in the right sense of the word. Therefore, we support in a single word all procedures in order to enable people to decide at the referendum on the future fate of the procedure. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group on this site, we also express disagreement with the procedures of the National Assembly, which are linked to the field of local self-government. Here again, we would like to make our disagreement clear that this National Assembly has abolished the Commission for Local Self-Government. We have already warned by our incontinence that problems will arise, and the problems are here, they are evident, are clearly expressed in the decision of the government, which has completely blocked the procedure, started in this National Assembly. We are also convinced that the municipality, as the main local community, is essential for the equitable development of rural areas, but that these municipalities must meet certain basic conditions, such as eight-year education, primary treatment, life support and all that is enshrined in Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government. At the same time, we refer to Article 13a of the Law establishing the municipalities and defining their areas, which provides that the municipality has at least 5000 inhabitants, but exceptions are allowed when the municipality may also count as fewer inhabitants at the time of its establishment, and then these exceptions are listed: for geographical, border, national, historical or economic reasons. I am convinced that the National Assembly, when deciding in 1994 and 1997 on the establishment of new congregations, has given some weight to these exceptions that it has allowed for the establishment and establishment of 95 municipalities, which have been established in the light of this Article 13.a. For this reason, and for this reason, we particularly oppose the fact that we would suddenly cease this practice. I will tell you about individual proposals later in the debate. Once again, in the Group of the Social Democratic Party, we advocate that the procedure continue to come in all the areas proposed for all 50 areas of the referendum, and we will take into account the referendum's expressed will when further decisions are taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Comrade Sušnik. Mr Vnučec will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia and will be followed by Mr Podobnik on behalf of the SLS Group of Members and Mr Kebrič on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please, colleague Grandchild, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, respectable National Assembly! In the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we support the development and creation of local self-government because it opens up the expansion of democracy and enables the direct participation of citizens in the local community. However, the whole system of local self-government was quickly put in place and left much misplaced and reforms were not fully implemented. Some congregations that were established in 1994 and 1998 did not fully meet the legal requirements for the establishment of new congregations. No wonder there are so many demands for new congregations. For the unfortunate decisions taken up to this time, of course, we cannot be held accountable in the Party of Young Slovenia, but we want to be responsible in advance. It is also important to know that in many decisions the Constitutional Court has found that the implementation of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia is a long-term process and has also set longer deadlines for the revision of the territorial formation of new municipalities and for the amendment of legislation on local self-government. We believe that package decision-making is inappropriate and irresponsible and that a separate decision is needed on each proposal for new municipalities in particular, given its cultural, geographical and historical characteristics, if not due to the other, and due to respect for the applicants who have taken a great deal of their free time, some have prepared complete collections, assemblies, analyses, and I think that as Members we must take at least that much time and consider each proposal separately, because the package can be decided on or against and then the decision is always criminal, in any direction. We therefore propose that the Committee re-examine and draw up a position on each new municipality individually, and, of course, the Committee's proposals, where they have decided packaged against, will not be supported. The same applies to proposals for new municipalities, since we believe that three proposals from Gorenjska, that the municipalities of Radovljica, Jesenice and Škofja Loka meet more conditions for city municipalities than some of the now established municipalities, would not list them. It is therefore imperative to undertake reforms in local self-government legislation and to devote more time to establishing a different level of local self-government to the provinces, because there is a provision for depriving municipalities of certain powers, because on the one hand we have a concept of establishment - when the law on local self-government was being done, we copied some European models, but we forgot that the municipalities have certain national powers there and that the small congregation is something else, such as a small municipality in our country. We believe that further legal proposals need to eliminate these irregularities and the unfortunate decision that we do not have such confusion, and it is indeed necessary to determine how many municipalities are needed or can be transferred for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you too, colleague Grandchild. Mr Podobnik will present the views of the SLS Group, followed by his colleague, Mr Kebric. Does any of the other members of the group then wish to present their views? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will turn to debates between Members and Members. First of all, Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u20	Dear President, the distinguished Secretary of State, who has now occupied herself - on such an important subject, it would be good to have at least a few more ministers accompanying her, because today there will be a number of questions - respected colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware that the National Assembly is ahead of a very responsible and difficult decision. If anyone thought that by delaying that debate until the last few hours, he had saved anything, he had made a grave mistake. We have to decide on these things. The book already shows that we've already gone over some of the deadlines. Sometimes it feels like there's not gonna be a referendum area in the first place. If the sky does, there will be no referendum, if there is no referendum, then we are still in the hands. So, all those who run the National Assembly and you just put this item on the agenda today, you haven't acted quite right, because we've already exceeded the basic legal framework that talks about deadlines. I'll be formal first. We have laws, we have constitutional court decisions. Before that, as the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also have a coalition treaty. The coalition agreement on these issues does not speak and it is right not to speak. The establishment of municipalities is not a matter of coalition, the establishment of municipalities is a matter for all Members and Members of the National Assembly. The key question that comes before us Members of the Slovenian People's Party, perhaps even before me, which I am already the third time deciding on these matters, is - give me one reason which is of a formal nature that today the National Assembly would not allow people to take part in the referendum - today we are not establishing municipalities so that there is no misunderstanding. Today we are not establishing municipalities, today only in the context of the procedure we are allowing this is a preliminary procedure with a referendum - simply in those areas, as it is proposed that voters and voters tell us whether they are for the congregation. The National Assembly is not fully bound by this decision, it is of a consultative nature. The question is, please give me one reason, which is of a formal nature, that today the National Assembly would not allow people to go to the referendum. Give me one reason. The reference to the Constitutional Court decision is as follows. Just a minute, 'cause there's a lot of paperwork. This is about the credibility of the National Assembly. See what the Constitutional Court said four years ago when, instead of the National Assembly, it allowed people to go to the referendums: "The National Assembly in this procedure for the establishment of municipalities and the modification of their areas did not have the right to use other criteria for granting exemptions under Article 13a as applied in 1994, unless it decided to apply stricter criteria also for existing municipalities." We didn't do it. We didn't do it. People in the field don't care what we do in the National Assembly, whether we've changed the law or not. They went into procedures in accordance with the legislation in force. This is a question that the government has also faced. I am sure that the government and the Secretary of State, Mrs Astrid Prašnikar, have been in a very unpleasant situation. She also tried to interpret the Constitutional Court's decision in such a way as to propose to the national assembly that, together with it, none of the proposals for the establishment of municipalities met the conditions laid down by the law. And then the government says, both articles have been treated as a whole, given the guidelines arising from the decisions of the Constitutional Court and their explanations. Well, now we're there. I have studied the decisions and all their explanations very carefully. But my conclusion is diametrically different. The decisions of the Constitutional Court and their explanations do not give the Government any argument that it has decided to adopt the so-called package approach. This will probably also be a professional question. If we follow fully the decisions of the Constitutional Court, then the government, which I am also a member of, had no professional terms other than the political conditions for proposing the decision as proposed. So let us packagely reject all proposals for referendum zones and also for other amendments. There's a lot of material on this subject, and then I signed myself up to perform if I have to. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have sincerely believed from the beginning in the concept of local self-government, which is a European model of local democracy and is also close to the consciousness of Slovenian people. The Slovenian municipalities have greatly enriched political life in Slovenia. If we have some accidents, don't let it bother us. If there are a few mayors who sometimes act 'courage, that's me', don't let it bother us. The vast majority of mayors are good, democratic, capable and new municipalities have been lit up where they operate. This is also a political issue on the left-hand side of Slovenian politics. The National Assembly, however, must cross the question on the left-hand side. The National Assembly must be particularly sensitive when it comes to the referendum. When he's talking about the consultative referendum. I hear we're all excited to go to some consultative referendum on NATO. I hear it. All of a sudden. Okay. Why are we now afraid to ask people, in this case consultation referendums? There is also a type where he could be critical of the government's position, but as a correctionary government Member, I will not do so, because I am aware that the government has been in a difficult situation. You'd only have one solution. In order to pay extreme attention from case to case and deal with each case on a case-by-case basis. Each referendum area is an example for itself. People live there in a special way, there are relationships between them one way or another. However, then we should find out, if any referendum area has 4,906, if I am not mistaken, the inhabitants and if it has all the other conditions - I will not mention it - and I hear that it does not have a healthcare home, of course the government should know exactly that the Constitutional Court has written in its opinion, "the existence of an institution, such as a healthcare institution, should be considered a relative situation, not an absolute condition". I look forward to, and this will be the case with our Group of Members, that each case will be dealt with with with with the full extent of responsibility and then decided whether or not we will allow the referendum area to be held accountable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. Mr Kebrich will present the views of the DeSUS Group, which is the last on my list of sent groups, and will then be given the floor by colleagues and colleagues, first of all colleague Franci Rokavec. Comrade Kebrich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and others! Before or before the decision of the new congregation, yes or no. We received recommendations from various sources to the parliamentary group, as well as from Members, on the other hand that we should not vote in favour of this or that new congregation. The question in our parliamentary group is this: Will we repeat the error that occurred years ago when new congregations were established, regardless of whether they met not only all the basic conditions for the establishment of the congregation, but not just, rather, superficially, the number of inhabitants where tolerance might be such or different if the other conditions are met? On the other hand, we now have a government opinion that "a priori" rejects or says that it does not agree with the establishment of any new congregation. There is another problem, the problem, that a congregation wants to name itself as a city congregation, which is also a matter of local self - government. We believe that it is important that we study the content, not just those formal reasons, because if we look only bureaucraticly, formally, who has the conditions, who has no conditions, our decision would be very easy and simple. Personally, since I was already in my previous term, I have a clear conscience that I have taken into account the formal and substantive reasons at the time, and I have voted in my conscience, which I will also do this time. However, we believe that in the case of local self-government we need to look a little wider. If a municipality that has split up can't even agree on a balance sheet where it leads, we wonder whether these people who have set up a new municipality on the other hand can't agree on how they will agree on the balance sheet and damage, under terms please, all of Slovenia, so that we don't get such or other money available from the European Community, their local self-government fund. On the other hand, we are asked whether a congregation is to be divided, and this is true of the previous division that I was talking about, what it will cost the state budget, how much this country will cost. We're taxpayers. For the country does not receive money from heaven or from any good uncle, but it is derived primarily from the source of taxpayers, and on the other hand, it is a small fraction from good management of its assets. If we stayed at the basic tendency that the state would not give more money than it is available to the present congregation, and if certain ones were eliminated because no one has the right to object, on the other hand, if this money were to be distributed, it would still be fine, but that is not right. In fact, each new municipality will cost a little more money from the state budget. We confirm, however, that many congregations are, because we are going to certain areas where we are invited and presented with their problems, showing us their achievements and not neglecting them, since in many new congregations they have acquired many things at the expense of their new congregation, while previously they were a local community, perhaps more or even less neglected from the central congregation at that time. Citizens have won, and this is the basic purpose of local self-government to have the right to decide on their destiny, what priority order they will give to their needs within their capabilities. We made mistakes then, maybe we'll do it again, maybe not some. We believe, however, that it is essential that we once have to move into what is in Europe, and that we will also, in due course, be able to finance the municipalities primarily from their own resources, and that it will be demonstrated who is capable of living on their own behalf, not at the expense of others, especially at the expense of the State, that is to say all Slovenian or Slovenian citizens by paying their taxes. The Constitutional Court, which examined the decision, also refers to the possibility of uniting individual municipalities if it is seen that this would be a better interest to better fulfil in the new merger those obligations or rights of these citizens that would thus be merged. I'm afraid I don't know any such tendency to merge. On the other hand, we think that this would be very important, because if we really do come to the expense of funding ourselves in the municipalities, as it is called, we are not just waiting for the head office and so on from the state budget to give something to someone. Unfortunately, small municipalities, to a large extent or in particular individual cases, do not have the opportunity to compete on certain calls because they do not have the appropriate staff to prepare the documentation to obtain the money that either the State or the European Union has received when it comes to the specific example of the Phare programmes, nor are they able to draw up such a programme to obtain the money that is so-called grants at their disposal. That is why we will vote in our parliamentary group on our own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Kebric's performance has exhausted the presence of representatives of the parliamentary groups. I have 8 reported debaters who will have the right to a timeless performance. Let me put them in order so that they will know about their performance: a colleague of Rokavec, a colleague of Sok, a colleague of Diaci, a colleague of Podobnik, a colleague of Kelemin, a colleague of Rupar, a colleague of Pohorec and a colleague of Juri. All those who follow them will have the right to perform in a limited time, i.e. up to five minutes. First of all, my friend Rokavec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representative of the Government! In the introduction, let me first express my express disappointment at the product before us, especially the product prepared by the government. In fact, I am convinced that the proposal, as it is before us, does not reflect at all the results of the in-depth reflection on individual proposals for the establishment of municipalities or their areas, but rather, in my opinion, reflects a more political decision, the political decision of the competent authority or government, in which case, in the middle of the process, to change the rules of the game. I am convinced that this is absolutely unacceptable and that we are playing again with the rule of law and that we are playing again with citizens and citizens. I ask who in this country has the right to deny citizens and citizens the possibility of deciding which congregation and what congregation they will live in. The referendum as a consultative mechanism should be made possible whenever there is a clear interest in this, and this is also clearly stated in Article 139 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. But when setting up municipalities and referendum areas, of course, it is necessary to take due account of the interrelationship and roundness of a particular area. In this case, the proposal, which came from the government, covered this fundamental constitutional right of citizens and citizens. The right to express their views. In the final stages, the National Assembly may decide otherwise when making a decision. But I would like to point out that the basic right of citizens and citizens is basically a fundamental one. And I think that this approach has been unacceptable by the drafter of this proposal. I am also disappointed at the very indivisible and formal relationship of the parent’s working body. I am convinced that each proposal needs to be processed individually. And if I look at the government's responses to individual proposals, and if I focus on just one of the proposals that I have also tabled the amendment, the proposal to set up the congregation of Šmartno in Lithuania, I can see that the government has not fully integrated into individual proposals for the establishment of municipalities. First. The Government notes that a referendum was already held in that referendum area for the establishment of the municipality of Šmartno in 1998. He was executed, but not in the same referendum area to take over the same settlements. Not in 1998 and not in 1994. And the current proposal is actually a reflection of people's desires who want to create a different way of life in this area. I'll do it my way. And second. At that time, I did not track any individual interviews with the representatives of the government or the competent ministry with the candidates or with the representatives of the congregation. Here are the proposals of all the councils of local communities in this area, an identical proposal from the municipal council. And now the government proposal ignores this procedure. And I wonder why, then, the government and the National Assembly are calling on both the holy local communities and the municipal councils to give their opinions and suggestions in the process so far. Why did we even go to this game if it was basically the idea of not supporting any proposal at this stage? And the next. In a specific case, the government says that the specific area does not contain one of the conditions of the healthcare home. Which is not true. Or a health station. Madam Secretary, there is a health station in Šmartne near Lithuania. 300 metres from the possible future municipal border is a suitable health home, as you wrote down, for 20,000 people. But I'm warning you, you've gone to a different extreme. In this you have already tried to redefine a new boundary for the organisation and size of the individual congregation. It is said that the size of 20 thousand people does not even meet the parent municipality of Litija, the present municipality of Litija. And I think it's absolutely out of logic. Article 13 speaks only in brackets to a health care center or health station. And here we need to look for a logical solution in a particular area. And in this case, it's a perfectly logical solution. We know that public institutions must operate in a rounded system, and also in an appropriate area, for an appropriate number of people. And here I see no logical position on the part of the government, for such an opinion. And next, the number of inhabitants. The population of 5,000 is not an exclusive argument, in the Local Self-Government Act. 13.a Article clearly states that, for reasons of geographical, border, ethnic, historical, economic reasons, the municipality may have exceptionally fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. And in Slovenia, there are 95 municipalities, which have less than 5,000 inhabitants. I seriously wonder what the government will do with the 95 congregations that the National Assembly has established. Does he even intend to go to a scenario where these 95 congregations are shut down? If not, why does he change the rules of the game for the content of marriage in this attempt? And this is the rules of the game, not when setting up a municipality, but when it is possible for citizens and citizens in a particular area at all, the possibility of being heard in an individual proposal. And I am sure that the National Assembly will go around these arguments, that this will certainly be one of the key reasons why these areas and the proposers will rightly claim their right in the Constitutional Court. And I think it's probably wider. I am sure that it will probably not be in the reputation, not in our country's pride, if this problem is to be internationalised. According to all the information I have been able to obtain so far, in no case does Europe respect the absolute category of 5,000 inhabitants as one of the basic requirements for the size of the municipality. For example, when the parliamentary delegation for Slovenians worldwide visited Switzerland in December, last year, we were clearly explained that in Switzerland the smallest municipality [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] up to 12 inhabitants. [[...]] The municipality of Gorska is 12 people. And also according to comparable data, according to the number of municipalities per population, Slovenia is by no means giving up, but on the table below is the comparability of the average number of municipalities per population, including within the European Union. And there's something else I'm actually very interested in. When the government has not deepened into individual proposals; in those proposals in which no reform of local self-government has been carried out so far. This is quite a few municipalities in Slovenia. We know that in the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget last year for 2002 and 2003, there was a very sharp and varied controversy in this National Assembly on the abolition of the giro of the accounts of local communities. And I wonder how, in fact, the comparability of the implementation of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia can be ensured in order to be comprehensive when we have such a different size of municipalities and, on the other hand, an undeveloped strategy on how citizens and citizens can carry out their basic tasks at a lower level. Finally, I call once again on the representatives of the government and I propose that after this debate, the National Assembly should propose to the home working body to renegotiate on the proposed proposals and on each proposal individually, and that it should come back to this in-depth debate with a new proposal which will in fact reflect a thorough debate and reflection on the individual referendum proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Sok, and he will be followed by his colleague Diaca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of Parliament, distinguished colleagues and distinguished guests here on the balcony respected representative of the government. So that the attitude of this government to this issue is negligent and flat-rate, that is a fact. Like the government, I would say, some other projects in this country are not sufficiently taken, as I would say with my left hand, trying to abolish at this moment an important act such as the establishment of new municipalities. Realizing, of course, that there are sufficient executives in this House to confirm this decision. I resent you, Mr President of Parliament, and of course also the Members of the ruling coalition, as you actually put this point on the agenda. What you remembered was that it would be good to discuss this yesterday, and we voted about it before the Members had any material on the tables. This is not the case, Mr Podobnik, but I would not like to argue with you that we are late. At this late hour, a day or two, I find that you've gone about this with cunning and insidiousness. Somehow during summer vacations, when it is actually abnormal for Parliament to work like this. I don't know if it really matters to you as a politician, because I believe that you're not enough with your children, to give you at least a couple of hours so that the billiards can have a time when the children of the Maribor region and the Ljubljana holiday to be with them for a moment. If you don't allow this to Members of Parliament, at least those Members of Parliament who are probably mothers and now have children at home waiting for them. So this one week at a time, I'd say, schools. So much for how you've dealt with it and how you've classified it, I'll say again, with the trick on the agenda. And I'm not surprised that the Committee's position in this House was presented by Willi Trophynik, who is not normally in Parliament as is now, of course, performing three functions: a Member, Vice-President of the Finance Committee, and a Mayor, somehow for eight hundredths of a month's net salary performs all three functions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u27	I ask for peace in the hall and the speaker to stick to the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u28	I'm sticking to the darkness. So Mr Trofenik is one of the most opposed to small congregations, and I would like to explain why. I am not discussing it on behalf of the Group of Members, but I am discussing it on my behalf. He came here, he said, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u29	colleague Trofenik is not the topic of the agenda [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u30	the board and then left as usual. [[...]] And it would be interesting to tell the public how much our fellow Member is here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u31	That's not the theme of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u32	When it comes to such important matters, of course not when it comes to others. [[...]] Yesterday was also interesting the opinion of Prime Minister Drnovšek when our colleague asked him what he thought of the government doing in one way, 98 in the same way, and now 4 years later in another way. His response was something like this: "This is our opinion, and the responsibility is taken by Parliament." Isn't that what he said? That's exactly what he said. So the government is not responsible - we have given an opinion and you decide. And what are the views of the government in this opinion? See, the government notes, as well as the combined list, that small municipalities in Slovenia are the reason why centralisation is taking place in Slovenia. Yes, please! Please! Small municipalities are the reason for centralisation. If there is a centralisation, however, it is the government's fault. It's the same as if, I don't know, the kleptoman said that a bunch of stores in his place were to blame for him getting out of there. Or that the people will suddenly be guilty of any opportunity to use, increase excise duties, once on alcohol, cigarettes, once on gasoline - yes, it makes you uncomfortable to listen to this, I know, but let me say this - to raise taxes on added value, that people are living increasingly, that social differences in this country are increasing, that people are becoming less and more deserving of poverty, so, at the same time, Dr. Drnovska's government will probably remember that the people in this country are guilty that the government is weak. [[...]] Maybe it's because it chose her. The media, of course, covers this to some extent, there is almost no daily newspaper to not report on the LDS Congress and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u33	Please, let's stick to the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u34	Please, Mr. President, don't interrupt me. I think as a Member I have the right to say what I think about these government proposals, which in fact, I think are violence against democracy in this country and, of course, I do not approve of such a way, and therefore I have the right to say in this House. But if I don't have the right to speak in Parliament, then say I can't, and I'll finish. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u35	You have, Comrade Sok, the right, no one must shorten it for you, nor do I, but I have a duty to warn you, like all others, that you must stick to the subject of the agenda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u36	The government further notes that the costs of public services, public institutions, are increasing, kindergartens, schools, libraries. So I ask the government, how is this possible, why are these costs increasing if we have a child less and less? Simply because this government is making up new and new regulations, because it builds a lot and has no strategy, it has no plan, so these costs are increasing. The government further notes that the costs of small administrations in municipalities are higher than in large administrations, and says that sometimes up to 40%. Yes, tell me one congregation where the cost of administration is 40%, in a small congregation; I believe it is in one of the great. And here I am responsibly saying, those small congregations that I myself know have a smaller administration than the congregation of Ormož. The municipality of Gorišnica has a small administration, i do not know, the municipality of Juršinci or, if you like, the municipality of Gorišnica can also list you, Mrs State Secretary, and you can convince me with the others. The government is talking about costs, but at the same time it's forceful, and it's trying to establish the provinces. So this isn't going to cost the country? To give some authority to the congregations and so on - this will not be a cost; it is a cost to establish new congregations. And today, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are not discussing whether we are going to set up or not. Today we are discussing whether we will allow this Parliament to apply the principle of direct democracy in this country. We are discussing whether we will allow these citizens - whose representatives are sitting here and watching us and also see what our interest in this debate is, when most Members are missing, of course our citizens are paying them to miss them - decide for themselves. We decide whether to give people a chance to tell them what they want at the referendum. And you want, of course, the majority, in the package, to remove this option with your left hand like this and not give people the opportunity. But be aware that the Slovenian state was founded on the principle of direct democracy. The Slovenian state was founded on plebiscite and this should be the highest shrine for this Parliament and all citizens in this country. Unfortunately, therefore, the principle of constitutionality is the tenth concern and that is how we treat the decisions of the Constitutional Court, so we treat the Constitution and thus try to legitimize the duality of Slovenian citizens here today. So those who were born four years ago had the right to establish something, and those who were born four years later no longer have that right. That small congregations are not unsuccessful, he has already spoken to his fellow Member, Rokavec, that I will not repeat it because he has honestly said what it is like to do with this matter in the European Union. My colleague, Mrs Zupanova, also told us what congregations are like in comparability in the European Union. And what you're writing, what you're saying, what's said is that Slovenian congregations are too big to the congregations in our immediate neighborhood, is an absolute and big lie. So that's it, no. The research sector of the National Assembly has prepared a study that serves us for this talk. We didn't prepare it ourselves. In the research sector of the National Assembly, a map was made of the comparability of the size of the municipalities. And there they wrote how large the congregations are in Austria, Germany, the Czech Republic, France, and so on. We didn't do it. And if you do not believe and continue to speak to your office in Parliament, it also seems that the coalition treaty is much more than the constitution. Thank God this isn't written down, as I could understand it, in the coalition contract, because of course you're sticking to the coalition contract like a drunkard fence. It doesn't matter what's in the constitution, it's what's in the coalition contract. In particular, I would like to respond to some of the things in this proposal of the government that have been written down. That is why there is a need to establish new congregations in the congregation of Ormož. For preventive reasons, I also made two proposals myself, although all procedures were led by local councils, namely in the local community of the Centre near Drava and in the local community of St. Tomaž. These two local communities also sent a minutes of the Joint Meeting of 28 November 2001 to the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee and also to the President of Parliament, as far as I know, but as I have checked, neither the members of the Internal Policy Committee nor the Parliament have received this material. So allow me to read what the representatives of the eight local communities have concluded, as far as they exist in the present congregation of Ormož. They say: "The following common findings shall be identified on the basis of the consideration of this issue: Members of the worlds of all the KS are very disappointed and bitter over the manner and powers of the local communities. Another time. The councils of the local communities have become only raisers of deadlines for formal confirmation of predetermined programmes of the congregation, where they have no opportunity after amendments and additions. Third time. If the financial plan is not confirmed, nothing happens, nor does it have any consequences, which confirms and proves the role of the saints of the local communities of Ormož in practice. The saints of the local communities have lost their full status and importance. Local communities deal only with the dead and the holes on public roads. The road standard is worrying and, given the intensity of current and expected investments, it will be more than alarming. The funds intended to maintain public roads, both macadamian and asphaltic, are lower from below any criticism and from year to year." On this basis, they also identify the following: "All members of all local communities of Ormož, as officials, feel the political and moral responsibility of our countrymen to respond to the situation and to warn the mayor that such functioning, operation and existence of local communities is unnecessary, uneconomic and pointless. Because of the lack of understanding of the municipality for small things in local communities, which are vital for the development of a particular place, the village, at the expense of large, also necessary municipal projects, has started the process and procedure of individual local communities to exclude from the municipality of Ormož. The draft budget for 2002 is not acceptable mainly in terms of available resources, both for regular maintenance and investment maintenance of public roads, local roads and so on." Therefore, the last decision or proposal adopted by the local councils: and forwarded to the mayor's office or the municipal administration, there is almost never any written reply or explanation on these proposals," and so on. So these are some of the reasons that I wanted to mention specifically why, in certain areas, individual environments decide to want some of their communities, local communities, local governments. The government's opinion on page 26 is, of course, something completely different. I simply do not know why public services in the field of Ormož should break down if two local communities are to be expelled to their congregation. I also do not understand how it can be written that both local communities are a net recipient of funds from the municipal budget, but that is not true, of course. That's not true. And what the government has written, although the government has said that it has summed up the position of the municipal world, for which, if I were to tell you how it is composed, it is clear that such matters are confirmed and accepted, because in fact in the municipal world there are some people who serve the Ormož congregation. Some sell grammes, some measure land, some repair urban lighting, two hundred directors, and so on. And such a congregation council cannot accept any other position than, of course, it can. [[...]] [[Comments from the bench.]] Well, at least the municipal committees are run by the Slovenian People's Party, including the Supervisory Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u37	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u38	No, because there's something going on here, and I have to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u39	My friend Sok [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u40	So, I would like to say that the situation in northeastern Slovenia is extremely critical and I do not understand the position of some Members of the parliamentary groups who say that municipalities should be financed alone. Yes, how can the congregation be financed by us if most people do not earn more than 60,000 a month. But if they go after the Macedonians in the morning and wear spare shoes to get dressed when they get on the bus and drive to work and then at the end of the month they get 60,000. How should congregations finance themselves? With everything you do centralising and directing all financial flows to Ljubljana, where, of course, the matter is significantly different. So, let me finish. I am very disappointed with the government's proposal. I thought before the year 90, when we were getting our country, that there was a key finger in Belgrade at the time, and today I feel that this matter has moved into our parliament and that it is something similar. I have been to some of the assemblies where Members who sit here promised to support the referendums and their expectations. I was in Bogojina, where, say, Mr Gerencher promised, Mr Juban conditionally, if he was convinced, he said. Then I am in the Circulations, where it is an extremely border area that will fail if we do not act quickly and thoroughly, where the LDS speaker has repeated ten times that Mrs Lidija Majnik will support this. So today you will be able to prove yourself and say whether you promised these things only for the sake of the citizens, or whether you will do so - or, as someone said, according to your conscience. I'm only afraid for those who have no conscience, I don't know how they're gonna work.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u41	Please. A colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u42	I will conclude, of course, the government is sweet, it wants to still make decisions on behalf of people, it wants to be some kind of "tour," these people, as if they don't know how to decide their own local affairs. Every authority is fleeting, and yours will be fleeting, and you will be replaced someday by some who will take the will of the people and take democracy for granted, who will realize that the nation is ruled on its knees, not arrogantly and defiantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Before I give my word forward, I am obliged to answer your procedural question. There are two replicas. First, let me point out that in this discussion, which will obviously be controversial, like many others, we do not need to raise our voices because we have microphones. I also propose that we give up all those qualifications that excite those who think otherwise, some belief that their differences are not respected. Each of us has his own conscience, his own political beliefs. Here are 90 Members and Members representing all people, and I propose that we respect each other, regardless of these differences. Your question, Comrade Sok, deserves an answer. You asked me why I put this on the agenda right away. I must tell you that I have done this very consciously as President of the National Assembly, as soon as the conditions have been met, I have decided to put this on the agenda and to propose to the National Assembly for admission, because we have to hunt the legal hands. The government gave an opinion on the 12th of this month, which is a condition for the opening of a general debate in Parliament. And as soon as this condition was met, the National Assembly under point 1 began this treatment. Let me also say that once we have completed the general discussion, I will propose that the mother's working body meet. Many amendments have been tabled, and there are likely to be others. I suggest you hurry up with the amendments. After the general discussion, I will propose that the mother's working body meet to identify itself to the amendments, that we break this agenda item, and that we continue as soon as the mother's working body has finished its work so that we can decide on the conclusions. Now, first of all, I give my word to my colleague Sponik and my colleague Trofenik, for a short replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with your proposal you just made. I would like to refer to my colleague Sok, in accordance with the business provision. The performance of Comrade Sok, especially when he argued, is a typical example in politics of how you do not gain allies by your performance, but new enemies and opponents. I suggest that we do not understand his performance as a provocation, for it was an act in which he was offensive, grave and provocative. This mode of discussion is absolutely wrong in this topic. Absolutely wrong. Secondly, colleague Sok attacked our fellow Member, Sir William Trophynik, when he presented the Committee's opinion. Yeah, so where did we see this? He presented the opinion of his mother's working body. I'm asking you not to take advantage of it in a performance like this. And, of course, colleague Sok, it is known that you have some tense relationships in relations in the municipal world. But please do it there in Ormož, not here in this place. Members and Members of Parliament are bound by the unwritten rule of political culture, so that we do not talk about these things in this way. You've crossed the rubicon, and please don't do that anymore. Do not do any more of this to malign our fellow Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u45	I ask that we all try to contribute in our debates to the fact that the National Assembly will, through various arguments on the establishment of municipalities or on decisions, conclusions, amendments, decide in the most intelligent way not to interfere with other things in this debate. Comrade Trofenik has a replica, followed by colleague Kangler, followed by colleague Juban, and then, if I see it correctly, colleague Sok. Is that right? But please, now in replicas, we try to avoid themes that would take us away from the topic of the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Of course, it is unworthy of the State Assembly to respond at such a low level to its fellow Member and to its councillor and to the two-time opponent in the municipal elections. Mr. Sok, you got 18 percent when I got 72, twice, even with the help of a people's party that put up against a candidate who got 10, and of course you're 18, and you're out of it. You're obviously nervous because you can't argue with your suggestions and then you've gone with such low-level attacks. I will answer to you in the municipal council not before the national assembly, because, of course, such a low level does not belong to the national assembly. To say, quoting some of the false documents that you have gathered here would be good if you quoted the views of the congregation council, which were adopted by a large majority. How and in what way will your members of the municipal council react to your malignment of their positions and decision in the national assembly, you will see for yourself in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u47	I suggest that this is no longer a topic in this National Assembly. Comrade Kangler, colleague Juban, colleague Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I have to replicate to my fellow Member Mr Sok, and I am fully joining my ad hoc speakers, Mr Trofenik and Mr Podobnik. Sok’s colleague here showed his face and went down to such a low level that he brought some of the local problems that he himself relives in his congregation council as a member of the congregation council to the national assembly. In view of the clear and loud attack by our parliamentary group, our fellow Member and also some Members, I would like to remind you, Comrade Sok, to take a look at history, even back, at the previous term of this National Assembly. In the previous term, I hope to state, and very much thanks to the then Slovenian People's Party, we received 45 new municipalities. Inside the coalition. And if we didn't persist inside the coalition, there would be no new congregations. My personal opinion, Comrade Sok, is that the referendum must be reached, the referendum must be reached, and the political decision will be the one in this national assembly when they say whether or not the congregation will be. However, the electoral decision is always the one where the votes are counted, as far as they go and as far as they go. The fact that you mentioned the coalition contract, Comrade Sok, believe me, as far as I know this Slovenian policy, you will probably be able to get to know the new coalition contract yourself or to co-form it, given some of the events that have taken place recently in the Slovenian political space. And then I'm going to ask you what your principle is, your posture, and something like that. As far as the municipal council in Ormož is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u49	I suggest that's not the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u50	Comrade Trofenik
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u51	It was explained, and I propose that we remain in this explanation, which was given, if possible, by colleague Kangler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u52	It's possible. I will try to shorten this area, but you too, Comrade Sok, may I ask, even after where you were when your fellow Member Willi Trofenik fought for that road in Ormož, and I might be able to tell you something, and I will not do that. What you have because of politics and local policy and the problem of customers in the municipal council in Ormož, and if you cannot survive that my fellow Member, Vila Trofenik, has defeated you twice in the mayor's election, you have lost it against him, please take it somewhere else. However, as regards your initiative to establish two new municipalities, you have submitted it, and I will make it clear to you that you have proposed and that I will open up the possibility in one of these municipalities to run for mayor, and I have also supported these municipalities, regardless of what the opinion of the parliamentary group is.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u53	Watch out. I'll give my word to my colleague Juban, and I'll repeat the warning I gave earlier. I think that some of the explanations have been made on one side and on the other side of the day and that we can close this issue and that we can focus on the agenda. If I don't insist on this here consistently, the debate will lead us to a different side of the road that none of us wants. Comrade Juban, you have the floor. Comrade Sok and colleague Bernik have the floor for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I repeat to my colleague Sok, given that he mentioned me about the establishment of the congregation of Bogojin, regarding the initiative that we have discussed at a certain assembly in this village. And at that time, some of us have come from the fact that we have warned people that the law allows this, and it is also possible to make exceptional excuses for the role of the initiative, which has been mediated along the way we know it. Back then, I had warned that it was different if we were talking about the local community of Bogojina itself or with the settlement of Močavci, which is a minority settlement, which is borderline, which is also demographically threatened, and things are different if we deal with the matter in one way or another, and it is true that I had not yet been defined. In the meantime, a lot has happened, but Mr Sok can't know how determined I am right now and not inspire some things, that I've already made up my mind and anything else, because you don't know and that's not true. In the meantime, the Motavajevci have decided not to go along, in the midst of stories that do not belong in the democratic way of obtaining some credits within the country - I am talking about the unsympathetic events that have been produced in this environment, and they give rise to reverse effects rather than people achieving what they want. Of course, I am in favour of arguing with the Government's views with arguments, but not in a manner and not with obviouss that do not have the right basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u55	Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much. So, I have expected these replicas by the Members of the Slovenian People's Party and it is right to defend your fellow Member. It is that the government has written some things that are not true in this act of establishment or in its opinion. The local community of the Centre is not a net recipient of funds. That is why I read the minutes of 28 November, with the attention of all eight local communities and which, as I know, was also sent to Parliament. I didn't make these things up. I read them from it. So, if it hurts you, dear fellows, it's your business, but that's how they wrote it down, and I read it before this Parliament. But you could probably also read conclusions from some other environment where they want to have their own congregation, because I know our situation - you can, of course, link them to other matters in the municipal administration and so on - but I read it. And one more thing, the distinguished leader of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, of course, I do not need allies in these matters, you have found that wrong. They're not my projects, they're local community projects, they need allies. I, of course, do not need them as an opposition Member. The decision is in your hands and you will take responsibility, as the Prime Minister told you here yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Comrade Bernik, and behind you another replica, Comrade Podobnik. Then I will ask the National Assembly not to continue with the replicas and to move forward with the discussions. Please, Comrade Bernick. Can I ask colleagues who are next to you to allow you to perform normally? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government. We have a very interesting dialogue on things, facts and the like. I think that in the debate I listened to, there was nothing nice about it, there was talk about facts, and I think that our Parliament must support it. Many times I listen to certain things, many words that do not say anything, and this has been well demonstrated even today. It seems to me that culture is not just a culture of dialogue, but, above all, a culture of the heart. And if we're talking about such important things as we talked about, it seems to me that we have to move on to the day of the fact, concrete, because that's the only way we can face reality. I'm sure you know, some of you have already visited the knight in Israel on several occasions, which is said to be the wildest Parliament in the world, but I think in a good way that they will tell each other everything. But if we're used to taboos between us, yeah, then we really don't belong in here. And I think, Mr President, that it would be very good to bring a little more pleasant spirit into this Parliament. For example, I object to the fact that if there is an audience here, it must not express its opinion; for it does not support anyone except to say that they are satisfied to be able to listen. So I would like to think a little bit about how we behave here, and also to adopt some rules that will be raised in this sense, so that we can say things clearly and loudly. And some Members also told the Prime Minister everything. What happens? He responds to these things as necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I don't think there's ever any problem with any of them, unless someone in front of them feels hurt and we who express them are obliged to make sure that no one feels that way. This seems to me that the approach to the debate, of course, is completely legitimate. It is necessary to stick to the subject, to the discussion, and to avoid the feeling that we are hurting someone with our views. Every other discussion, of course, I will have to stop. As far as your recommendation is concerned, Comrade Bernik, that people coming to the Tribunals have the opportunity, either by applause or in any other way, to support or not support the words expressed in the National Assembly, and I must tell you that I do not know any parliamentary practice that would allow this. On the contrary. You're right. They're trying to make people who come to the gallery welcome, just like we do. However, they must not participate in the debate. I think it would be good to hold on to this, it's not an expression of some disrespect for their views, but it is, I'll say, some rule everyone's sticking to. I suggest we end the replicas at this point. Let's move on to the debate. A colleague of Diaci, a colleague of Podobnik, has given me the floor to inform me of his application for an unlimited withdrawal discussion. Let me say, once again, colleague Diaci, before I give you my word - that after the general debate, we will call on the committee to meet and adopt positions if so decided by the national assembly. By suggesting that we stick to the subject in the debate. Please, Comrade Diaca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you for the word and a good greeting to all who are present, both below and above. In my opinion, the National Assembly today is before and for many people also an unpleasant decision. It is therefore proposed that the proposed initiatives for directing the new municipalities do not meet legally defined criteria. The criteria of Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. Let me first stop at the law on local self-government that sets these criteria. The criteria of Article 13 and the criteria for population numbers are clearly clear. However, it is a very controversial and vaguely sympathetic third paragraph of Article 13a of the Law, which speaks of geographically borderline nationalities, historical and economic reasons. Who, and for what reasons, proposed it? Any settlement, local community or small area in Slovenia is not found in one of these for such or other reasons. And that's why almost half of the municipalities found themselves here in Slovenia in this cute paragraph and also succeeded. Now, the National Assembly will be smarter, smarter than it was four years ago and will not even call for referendum areas. Let me just give you one anomaly to make this happen. The local community of the Mountain near Sevnica is the neighbor of the former local community Dobe, which is today a municipality. This municipality has fewer inhabitants, less economic potential, less geographical position, as referred to in Article 13a(3), and there are historically no tangible differences between the places. The transition from one local community to another local community leads through the former local community of Dobe, which is today a congregation. How to explain to people that they won't even have a referendum. And for example, the local community of Ponikva from the same environment, which refers without problems to the same third paragraph, in particular with the word historical, since it has finally even the home of the famous Slovenian Anton Martin Slomšk. By the way, it also has more population than the municipality of Dobe and about. six times as many people as the municipality of Hodoš, which is a marginal one. Which criterion is more important - historically or marginally or geographically, in the past, with a relativised population criterion. And the second reason for the initiatives to establish new congregations is undoubtedly the law on the financing of municipalities, which is incredibly stimulating for the establishment of smaller units and is written in the spirit of the Latin expression "divide et impera" - parts and rulership. There is also one reason for growing and increasing regional differences. It is true that fragmentation into ever smaller parts does not lead far, as it also plays its part in logic, the economy of scale. That is why I also support the Government's efforts to establish the provinces. It is also true that the criteria that we are deciding today are unclear and questionable, the rules stimulate division into smaller units and the starting points are the same as four years ago. That is why I also support the implementation of the referendums in the proposed areas and will not support Decision No 1 proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much, colleague Diaci. The word is given by colleague Podobnik, behind him by colleague Kelemina. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have prepared for a longer debate on some substantive and historical and other reasons, which simply place local self-government in the political history of Slovenia and the Slovenians, but on the fact that this would be a wise path for the State assembly to adopt a decision on amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the amendments to define the working body, I will withdraw the debate. However, I have a proposal, Mr President, if we want our debate to be in the hands of the working body, it would be only logical that questions from Members, to specific questions, should be answered first by government representatives. Besides, we talk through each other. Before that, it was a clear question, for example, that the government had overlooked certain facts in some of the proposals. And it would be good to hear right now whether that's true. Only if, in one case, this has happened, then it is simply necessary to find out and then to ask what this means for the follow-up procedure. Otherwise, our debate will be just a monologue and will not help the working body, not all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Let me explain one more time. After the end of the debate, I will propose to the National Assembly that the working body meet. Members and Members of Parliament will decide whether you agree with the proposal. My friend Kelemin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! I'll be in my debate or I'll just try not to be demagogic because of any kind of omnipresentity to anyone. I will say that in this case, and also in my debate, it is mainly about principle. I must also say that today this topic is not just a matter of expertise, it is a matter of professional questions. By the way, let me just say, as it has already been found, that the decisions of the Government in that definition that will be made in this matter are not entirely based on the profession. This is a fact that has already been presented today, so I will not talk about it. There is something else, however, that today this topic, which has mainly become a political issue on the agenda, is an important political issue. And that's probably how it's gonna be made up. But it's something else. Look, we've come at a time when there's actually something we need to do. Time has simply begun to haunt us and some procedures need to be done if we are to achieve some dynamics that are, of course, prescribed for this. And in the previous term, I remember, four years ago, the representatives of the previous government, the representatives of the previous coalition, said they would do anything to change the relationship, the conditions and, of course, on the basis of these new changes, the new facts would be decided differently. And what happened? Mr Anderlič will remember this well, and I know that it is difficult for him today because he is aware of this problem, the unresolved problem and that he would like these things to be in line with those guidelines which he himself was defending at the time and which his option had advocated, that they would be cleared and resolved so that today it would not be necessary to re-emphasize, debate and also to make political decisions at the final stage. I am firmly convinced, of course, that Mr Anderlich will speak afterwards and that he also confirms these assumptions of mine. Now, some of you said, we haven't done or done anything to change these things in order to change the criteria, etc. Don't say that, don't say that. Please don't get me mixed up. My willingness is always if you make the right suggestion that I go into it and that I will discuss it creatively, argumentatively, and then also decide on the basis of facts, arguments that are generally recognised, or in accordance with the Constitution, laws, etc. So don't say we didn't do it, but you didn't do the one who had the power. You didn't do it, you didn't propose it, and that's why it wasn't adopted. Now, some of you also make excuses to the government. Not everyone's making excuses to the government. We all know how decision-making relations are going, we all know what Parliament is responsible for, we all know what the government is responsible for. If the government does not want to do or does not do something, Parliament has the right to ask or order the government to do something. And who can do that? Surely not and certainly not the opposition itself, only the government can do this, the one who has power in the hands of the coalition, or the LDS. But you didn't do anything. Otherwise, I really don't know what the government has been doing in this area for these four years in the preparation of this proposal or in amending the laws, in changing the criteria, in changing the criteria, I don't know what it's been doing, in having a job for it, in this area they've certainly gotten wages, and nothing has happened, and the authorities should demand that this happen, of course. Today I ask you, of course, what are the new criteria, what has changed and what is different today than it was four years ago or eight years ago. Nothing at all. Nor has the legal condition for the establishment of congregations changed, nor has the law on local self - government changed, nor has the law on financing, with which some of you have actually threatened to make a significant change so that small congregations will no longer be paid. That's what you said, that's a fact, we can go back and look at everything, and we'll figure out that you talked about it at the time, and basically talk about how the Law on Community Financing will be written so that small municipalities will fail in their operations - that's a fact, we can check. Although I don't agree with this philosophy in principle. So why make a different decision today is one big question. Something must have happened here, here in the back certainly is a fundamental political issue, why today the government is taking a different decision, along with the government, of course, why it is decided differently than it has made four, eight years ago. You must have come to some knowledge and this knowledge, according to my assessment, can be absolutely nothing more than that you like it best, or anyone else, would like it best to be just one leader in the country and only one language, etc. - We know that. We know this philosophy because then, on the basis of such a high centralisation, it is, of course, possible to have control over the whole area. I know that many municipalities, many mayors, cause problems in coordination, in large matters, in a number of matters that require a lot of tolerance, a lot of understanding, different environments, etc., I know this is causing you problems. But it is Europe that is built on this, on the diversity, and these are the qualities that drive this Europe and the world and everything else forward. So, the main thing is, in my opinion, that you've realized that these things need to be centralized. And I, of course, don't agree to that theory. Of course, it is also necessary to ask, say - these are such principled questions, which are very important - how these new congregations, which we established four, eight years ago, including small congregations, live today. I firmly believe that 90% of these congregations live better or better than before they were not independent congregations. That's a fact. Local self-government needs to be brought closer to people, to their needs. This is the basis, these are the basic starting points, the fundamental rules essentially for the functioning of local self-government. And I am not talking about the need for small municipalities to even limit financial resources. I am speaking, and I have told you this many times before, that our congregations, towards the European Community, to the European Communities, are far from financially subordinated. And you know it. The government, the government, they know these criteria. Subliminal. They do not receive as much funding as they should, given the gross domestic product, receive municipalities as they do in other countries. That's a fact. And I say, tasks, if we want to decentralize ourselves, we need to transfer from the state level to the local level and give people the opportunity to decide their fate substantially more than is happening today. And why are so many central services needed in Ljubljana? I've talked about this a lot. Why is it that it takes so many jobs to distribute or so many employees to distribute, say, 50 million or 200 million and then spend half of the money even for themselves, for their own operation. No, this money needs to be distributed in the local community, according to some correct key, people are already employed there, there is no longer a problem for a congregation that has 20 employees or 15 employees, and to spend, if you want, 3 billion or 1 billion. However, although the projects may be slightly larger, they may be slightly larger, but this can be done, small or municipality with some normal optimal administration, as well as the smallest, with the least, are able to use substantially more resources in this composition than they are, or in a minimum, the same quality, I say. Same quality. So my philosophy goes completely the other way and the other way. And it is because you have not done anything in this period of these four years, not in the government or in the authorities in this country, that you have done nothing, so my principle today is as it is. And it can be no different, it follows established practice and nothing else can follow. I think you need to understand that, and you will understand that, and you will respect that decision. I will certainly support this proposal you have proposed, Mr President. All things cannot be so easily confused in the same basket, things need to be put on the table, discussed thoroughly about them and stuck to some consistent practice. That's the basics. If we don't do this, there's going to be a lot of people looking for their right if they can't find it at home, they're going to be looking for it abroad. And I don't think it's necessary for us to solve these things ourselves at home. And that's what we're gonna do. Of course, with your goodwill, with the will of the government and with the will of the government as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u65	The last person who has the word to speak indefinitely is Comrade Yuri. Three others have been reported following him: colleague Bernik, Rupar and Pukšič. Once again, after the end of the debate, I will invite the National Assembly to make a proposal to reconvene the mother's working body. This is not necessary for the decision-making procedure but can be decided by the national assembly. And he'll make up his mind. My friend Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you, President. Even though I don't have a time limit, I'm going to be very short this time. You know my views on local self-government are very critical from the very beginning. I didn't agree with the way we went into this project years ago. Every time it was necessary to decide on the establishment of new municipalities in order to reduce the network of local self-government, I voted in accordance with the provisions of the law and never broke it. I myself understand the right to local self-government as an individual right exercised collectively. Where are the boundaries of this collective? The collective can be two citizens, two million citizens. Years ago, we decided that this limit was 5,000, for such and other reasons, because we had estimated then that this critical mass would be the necessary mass, which would essentially ensure its existence, sufficient finance, sufficient organisational and human capacity. Of course, this could be a matter of discussion. We can go back to a lower number, we can evaluate all the criteria, but this time - and this may be the difference from the previous decisions - the government has a slightly stronger hold on the conditions laid down by the law. In the defence of previous governments, I would say that the previous proposals have followed mainly the legal conditions, but that there has been lobbying in the National Assembly, a different decision. As a result, there were a number of congregations that today do not meet all the conditions, as someone had previously found out, almost a few hundred congregations; of course, they were exceptions rather than the rule. When we talk about exceptions, we are talking about a minimum number that could stand out, so they did not meet these legal conditions, and unfortunately today we have a reverse picture. Citizens and citizens who today want to establish new congregations are, of course, not without congregations. Everyone is a citizen and a citizen of one of the existing municipalities, but he is certainly dissatisfied with the form that this congregation provides for the exercise of its right to local self-government and seeks new and new forms. Interestingly, many of these proposals also come from municipalities that were newly established and did not fulfil the tasks for which they were established at the time. I can assume that when the new 50 municipalities are established tomorrow we will also get within these new municipalities 50, and perhaps more, new proposals for the transformation of the congregation and we will come to a situation where maybe every settler, every settlement, every local community, every village community will demand the same status of municipalities. Since in the past I have voted very consistently against all municipalities that did not meet all the conditions, including the thousands of people, this time I will not find it difficult to attach to the Government's proposal, because, last but not least, I do not know if anyone has pointed to it - following the recommendations of the congresses of the local regional authorities of the Council of Europe. About the question of the referendum itself. The wrong explanation is that we don't allow the people of the referendum. People in the local community or in the areas proposed for the establishment of a municipality in that area may have the right to a referendum following the procedures envisaged. Any civil initiative may launch such an initiative and the referendum shall be organised. The question is whether it is the State assembly that assumes responsibility for such an invitation and also acts consistently after the outcome of such a referendum is known. I say that if we were to call for a referendum in the areas for which we today estimate that they do not meet the legal criteria and for which we would vote against it, it is possible for people to go to the point of clarifying, deceiving. For tomorrow we should do no different than their will, whether the congregation is legally founded or not. I say that the right to a referendum exists, that people can express themselves, they can tell their own, but these responsibilities, that we will only commit ourselves to perhaps, as someone said tomorrow, to assessing otherwise, despite the will that people will say, cannot be taken over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the performances of those Members and Members who have had the opportunity to present their positions in a timeless manner. There are now three colleagues: colleague Bernik, colleague Rupar and colleague Pukšič. If there aren't any new applications, then will we still be Bodo? [[...]] A replica of Comrade Yuri? You have the advantage, first of all, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr Juri, I think your statement was also partly misleading that people have the opportunity in these areas to carry out the referendum themselves, of course, for their money, etc. But the fact is that the Law on Local Self-Government and also the Constitution, Article 139, gives this explicit right to people so that they can be defined in these areas. I ask you what is the weight of such a referendum that, say, a certain local community would call. None. Another difficulty, and also under the Local Self-Government Act, is the clearly defined weight of the Consultative Referendum. I would like to point out that in those areas where it is also clear that it is a clear will to allow these people the right to be declared. I certainly do not think that at this stage the Government's opinion is binding on the State Assembly to decide whether or not the conditions for setting up a municipality are appropriate. Secondly, I claim that the government's views were misleading. In a number of cases, the government's views were misleading. I can only say the Šmartny case in Lithuania, as I have pointed out earlier, has health care, has a health care station and you have briefly bypassed it in your opinion. The law clearly speaks in Article 13, either to a health care station or to a health station. The law does not speak of an absolute number of 5,000 inhabitants, it speaks of conditions where it is also possible to establish it under 5,000 inhabitants. And we know what these conditions are. And thirdly, the definition that a healthcare home can be established in an area of 20,000 inhabitants means a step further. I am sure that in Slovenia we will apply the criteria as set out in this, the moment being set by the government, that it will not allow people to make decisions where there are clear demands and even in the middle of any different proposals, if it is impossible, I think that Slovenia will be safe, as far as meeting local self-government is concerned, to an international extent, to have problems and to depart from those basic elements of the Charter on Local Self-Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Zupanova's colleague has a replica, not a performance. Reploco has a colleague, Sušnik. Is that right? Not at all. Comrade Beumann, Yuri, Potch, these are the replicas and you, colleague of Chebulj, colleague of Dr. Bajuk. Please, let's go in order, first of all, Comrade Beuremann.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I repeat to my fellow Member, Mr Rokavac, in the part where he raised the question of what is the weight of the referendum decision. Interesting question. I think it would be fair to pour some pure wine. What is the weight of the referendum decision? I know a partial answer to this question. When citizens or locals of Borovnica decided in a referendum in 1993 that they did not want their own congregation not to want their own congregation, the result of the referendum, the congregation was set up. This is the weight of decision making. That is why I will certainly vote against it today or when we decide to do so if the national assembly accepts or fails to accept or respect it or fails to pay back the money for the referendums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Comrade Yuri, colleague of the Potsch, colleague of the Chebulj.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u72	I'm replicating my buddy Rokavac, too. And I would remind him of the dictates of Article 14 of the Law of Procedure. See if the National Assembly finds that they are satisfied by the Constitution and by law with certain conditions for the establishment of a municipality or for the change of municipality areas, determine the area where a referendum is to be held for the determination of the will of the population and sign a referendum. So if we find out that there are conditions, let's set up an area and sign a referendum. That's the story. If we find out today that there are no such conditions, we will not be able to set an area for the referendum. The only excuse for the referendum being signed is the thesis that we will not stick to the legal conditions, but we will only stick to the will that will be expressed by the people. I feel that it would be very wrong if I decided to sign a referendum in an area that I know does not meet the conditions and that I know that I will also decide against the wishes of the people there. I think it's a responsible act, and we can't afford that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Comrade Potts, behind you, comrade onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u74	The reference to Article 14 as just stated by colleague Aurelio Juri was also a point which I wanted to make in my debate or a replica of Mr Rokavac's opinion. But let me take this opportunity to say two more, three more things. If we want to be right to our role and to the law, then we should say that we have the right and the duty to debate within the framework of the law, of course taking into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court; I agree with that. Under the law, we have only a duty and the right to decide under Articles 13 and 14 whether or not the legal conditions for the establishment of municipalities are met. Every single one. I think that the government has given us its opinion to each one; whether large enough or not, of course, it is a matter of debate, but it has given its opinion to each one. And talking about how the package decision was forwarded to us is simply not true. That's not how I understood it. It is true, however, that the result is the same for all the proposals tabled, and this is true - it can be wrong, it can be correct, but the government has made a separate decision on each proposal. It would be our duty to judge these criteria. I will do my best to do so to the fullest extent possible. But I'd like to say a sentence about that, because you've talked to a lot about political decision. Yeah, I'm sure it'll work. And in this part, none of us can be held accountable for the political decision, nor can this political decision be adjusted or conditioned by the environment from which we come. Just not this political belief, I would say, to demand that in a particular case everyone else has it, but others only have the right to judge in addition to the special case also the legal conditions and what such or different decision will have as a consequence for the structure of this important element of democracy in Slovenia, this is local self-government, for the whole country. This part, of course, we are also obliged to judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Comrade onion, behind you colleague Dr. Bajuk, colleague Rokavec and colleague Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I partly agree with Mr Juri's debate, but in all this reference to Article 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Communities, something else needs to be added. In view of the fact that four years ago, under the same procedure, on the basis of the same law, we adopted on the basis of the same criteria in the National Assembly probably more than 80 per cent of the municipalities that did not meet the conditions for the establishment of new municipalities under these criteria. And eight years ago the same thing, according to the same system, according to the same law, but no one's ever asked that question today. Given that we are piles and piles of amendments to the laws imposed on us by the European Community, which we have had to change and will change, no one wonders why and what the government has done and has changed the system of law itself, which would be Europeanly comparable. We have data on how many municipalities there are with few citizens in Austria, France, Switzerland and so on. My personal opinion is that given that I made the same decision four years ago, I will do the same today. Nevertheless, Mr Juri, a referendum decision based, of course, on the criteria adopted. It's impossible. There won't be a referendum. Because they don't meet clear criteria. For this reason, after all that the procedure is, of course, just before the door and too late, it is probably impossible for the government or Parliament to adopt new criteria, a new law that is comparable to the European Community. On this basis, we could only have a language and debate running in here, because we would have solved the issue of all those who are eligible, eligible for new congregations. My personal position is also that psychological orientation - if I may add that I will not return to the debate then - people in smaller municipalities are much more inclined to their municipalities because they are in charge of "local patriotism." In addition, let me add that the state of stepmother is to the congregations. This is also one of the reasons why today there is so much desire for individual local communities to reach their congregations. Since there is a lack of resources and, of course, every municipality leads a development policy into infrastructure, in primary education, and for the majority of municipalities, in particular local communities, they do not receive the funds provided for by the law. This is one of the key reasons why this euphoria is all these years in our country for the establishment of new congregations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you. My colleague Dr. Bayuk informed me that he was withdrawing from the replica. Comrade Rokavec you have a word behind you colleague Podobnik, then there will be another replica or we could continue the discussions. In this case, my colleague Bernik will have his word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. I had previously pointed out in the first replica to Mr Yuri that the government's responses to the proposed initiatives on the establishment of municipalities were not correct. In fact, they don't reflect the actual state of affairs. Secondly, the government has not taken into account in its responses to these initiatives that the reform of local self-government would be meaningfully rounded up throughout our country. In fact, we know that the reform of local self-government was introduced in 1994 at work and not throughout our country's entire territory, that it did not cover some areas, nor did it cover them in 1998 and we have an unresolved question about what the future role of local communities will be. And there's no clear concept here. The government did not take this into account in its replies and touched on individual proposals and their problems. This is a key issue that needs to be clarified. I am sure that the biggest mistake this National Assembly will make is that after this debate it will simply conclude the debate, or that it will not allow the parental committee to once again decide and that it will say that we have enough of this process, let us conclude the story. I think this is going to be the biggest mistake for the National Assembly at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u79	Let me explain again about the procedure itself. At the end of the discussion, the National Assembly will decide whether the parent working body will meet or continue to decide on the amendments. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Articles 229 and 204 are both possible. The National Assembly will decide which way to go. Let me just say something. Of course, it would make sense for the body to meet its parent work, if we did not then repeat all the debates in the vote on the amendments. If the national assembly, MEPs and Members feel that they will repeat the debate, then perhaps the meeting of the home labour body is merely a burden, without any rational savings. You'll decide when we put this to the vote. Now he has the word of a colleague likenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to rephrase my colleague Beumann and my colleague Yuri briefly in this very, I would say, substantive debate. First of all, the nature of the referendum, Comrade Beumann. The law stipulates that the referendum is of a consultative nature. In fact, the referendum is to help us, Members of Parliament and Members. The law clearly opens the way for us to decide differently than people at the referendum or as set out in the referendum. The experience here is that I live in one of those congregations where 48.5% were for the congregation and if we went to the referendum now, maybe 70 or 80% would be the result, we remember this first referendum. Comrade Beumann, I don't think that's the reason. You have done so with your attitude toward this matter. I don't think that's a key argument, the nature of the referendum. A very substantive topic was opened by colleague Yuri and then by colleague Potrč. The first question is, did fellow Members and colleagues on the committee go from case to case and judge all the criteria - did they go? Have they read the labs? Did you prepare them? That's what I'm interested in. If they're not, then, you know, the Constitutional Court will take us by the ears. That's irresponsible! Another time. Comrade Juri, tell me because I know that you are well aware of this issue, whose legal and constitutional court decisions do not meet the criteria of the referendum area Šmartno pri Lithija. Tell me which one. Unfortunately, we have found that the government has slipped here because it is a different referendum area than it was four years ago. Tell me which criteria he doesn't meet. If he does everything, you'll support him, won't you? That's the problem. I'm afraid we haven't even had this debate on the board yet. There was a mistake in the package principle that we in some way, understandably, blindly believed the government and in some way packaged it all together. Look, I suggest, colleagues and colleagues, that we do not rely on this, and that the Constitutional Court will correct our decision. This is an irresponsible move by Parliament. If you have seen in the invitation to tender, in the proposals for these decisions, it is even in the end that it is one of the possible procedures to end up in the Constitutional Court, by the motioners or the initiators. We have to make a responsible decision here and not wait and postpone this dilemma to a constitutional court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Two replicas, colleague Yuri and colleague Sušnik. My friend Kelemin? Please. Before you get the word, we need to make an order of reports. Here I see, Comrade Potsch Replica, formerly Comrade Beumann. Anybody else reported a replica? My friend Kelemin. So, buddy Yuri, Sušnik, Potch, Beuermann and Kelemina. Is that right? Here. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u82	I would like to reassure my colleague that if it is found that all the legal conditions are met, I will vote in favour. This is what I did every time I realized that all the legal conditions had been met in previous decisions. It's important to me, too, that we understand each other. With all the tolerance we can have here, all that is in Article 13 is also important. What is a mistake is, of course, an opinion. The question is that, in fact, the exception afforded by the law is also a matter of respect and also an exception. But there's no exception here, there's a majority, unfortunately, that goes away from these criteria. That's why there's no fear. I believed and believed - I am not a member of the Internal Policy Committee, so I have not looked in detail so far. However, I believe the analysis prepared by the government and the assessment made by the government. I've read it every time she's dealt with it. I did not see any deviation from demanding and recommending that we follow the legal criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Comrade Sušnik and behind you comrade Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to complement Mr Podobnik in his implementation when he wondered whether the Committee had gone from case to case and had considered individual proposals. It's not. It is not, simply because the materials have not been adequately prepared, prepared and prepared as they would have been, even in terms of respect for the applicants. This is the attitude that I have already pointed out today, which is also manifested in the fact that we have abolished the local self-government commission in this national assembly, that, I will say, we have placed this service within the framework of a ministry which has a markedly negative attitude towards local self-government, which has been explicitly and clearly stated many times. Look. I think that this is a statement that I have just said that there were no qualitatively prepared answers, and it is easy to justify it by reading the Government's reasonings by rejecting opinions. Nowhere else is there any explanation for non-compliance with Article 13a. In no case, in 50 cases, it was stated that, for example, the municipality of Polhov Gradec also does not meet the specific geographical, border, ethnic, historical or economic reasons which would justify that the municipality may have 5000 inhabitants at the time of its establishment. The applicant, the government, is also in the explanation for this decision, which calls for cutting off existing practice and consistently respecting conditions and criteria. I ask you, tell me what it is and how it is, how the geographical condition is defined, which allows the exception of 5,000 inhabitants, how the border, national, historical, economic. It's just not in these materials. It's not. I also understand Parliamentary colleague Yuri saying that we are sticking to the marriage proposal simply if we do not comply with the law, if we ignore the complex article in the law on local self-government, which in this case happened, then we could simply accept such an explanation and such interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Comrade Beumann, then Comrade Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Podobnik, I assure you that I know the law very well and that I also know the system of a referendum or an exploratory referendum. Again, I wonder what the point of calling for referendums is if the outcome of the referendums is not in some way taken into account in the National Assembly. This is my question, and this question will have to be answered very honestly and very clearly in this House once. I remember very well my own dismay and the surprises of the electorate, in particular at the end of the day when such a result, or such a decision, was in direct conflict with the will of the electorate. That's my question. But the way I'm going to make up my mind, I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Comrade Ptrč, colleague of Kelemin, colleague of Podobnik, colleague of Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much. With regard to the question raised by the President of the National Assembly whether or not we will or will not have a debate before the decision is taken at the National Assembly again on the Committee, I have decided to vote in favour of such a proposal. I personally believe that the Internal Policy Committee has taken into account the Government's views on each individual proposal. I can say this with certainty, Mr Podobnik, also the representatives of your parliamentary group have participated. However, it is also possible to object. Only if we object to it must we object in two ways. The same will apply to the work of the parent working body, as is the case today. We have to argue whether those who voted in favour of the decision, I voted in favour of the decisions proposed by the Government, asked for the fulfilment of all conditions, as we must ask ourselves whether any of the colleagues and colleagues who think that the Government's proposal is wrong, that it has not found the right facts, specifically pointed out this. I have to tell you, it wasn't done either. Be correct then to the problem that we are dealing with and I repeat that we do not want to decide on the basis of Articles 13 and 14 of the law, but that we want to decide on the basis of the specific relations and environments from which we come. Once again, it's not wrong, because that's what a Member can do, but we're not saying that that's not true. Look. Today we received an amendment table prepared by two parliamentary groups, the Social Democratic Party and Nova Slovenija. I hope I haven't looked at anything wrong, but when I fly over quickly, it means that in any of the proposals that have been made correctly, a decision should be taken to set up a referendum area and hold referendums. Are you saying, colleagues and colleagues from these two parliamentary groups, according to Mr Podobnik's statements, that all these proposals meet legal conditions? If we say so, then of course such an amendment from the point of view of the law that is the basis of our decision-making is corrected. If that is not true, then of course we are going to a political discussion, one at a time, one at a time, but nothing that is wrong, so please do not lead it this way. And another specific question, Mr Podobnik. I'm sorry my fellow Coat isn't here right now. Only colleague Rokavec in the first recital of the justification for the establishment of municipalities writes that the area of the new municipality of Šmartno pri Litija fulfils most of the functions set out in Articles 13 and 13.a. Most of it, not all of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Comrade Kelemin, colleague of Podobnik, Yuri and Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a second. I repeat to my esteemed colleague Rokavec. I would really ask, but all in the National Assembly, to make a border and say that we don't push everything into the same basket and say that, even though it is true at the final stage that the National Assembly will decide. But please don't push me around. I don't want to be in that group of national councils that's going to decide against some consistent practice and now, on a quick basis, throw some stuff under the rug and try to get a matter out of the agenda as soon as possible without discussion. No, don't put me in there. Responsibility for adoption or non-acceptance, some positive decisions are taken only by the government on the basis of its proposal and most of the responsibility is taken by the coalition if it is to vote in accordance with the instructions given by the Government. I will vote like this, and I have said this, as has been the established practice so far. I reiterate why you have not proposed amendments to the laws in these four years, the three that I mentioned earlier, to make a different decision today. Why didn't you suggest that? Today you are putting us in exactly the same situation as it was four years ago and as it could have been eight years ago. But today is even more difficult because you may have come to some knowledge, to new conclusions, but you have done nothing to change this to put it into some form that today would be the basis for making the right decision. That's a fact. No one actually has a moral right today, or you can take it, but you have no moral right to decide differently than you did four years ago. That's a fact. I say Mr Yuri's decisions and respect the others, I'm sure. If you've identified yourself four years ago as opposed to establishing new congregations, small ones, etc., that's your business. That's not my problem at all, and it's not my whole problem. This is how you define yourself, and if you define yourself publicly until such a decision is made, it is very legitimate and also fair and fair. Of course, someone will assess your behavior positively or negatively. I'm sure you also have your supporters, I'm sure, and you have a lot of them. You can have them that support the non-continuation of large, I think, very small congregations. In principle, it may be possible to support them, but larger congregations, if we did not make certain mistakes that we have made in the past. But today, due to principle, I can't go back. Let me understand. So please don't hold me accountable because I don't want to take this responsibility. I said, the responsibility lies with the government for the bad proposal it has made, and with all the others who have a decisive word in this National Assembly for the adoption or rejection of a proposal. But there is something else - and, Mr President, you could also assess this, and you will all probably find that this time the government has sent a bad proposal to the National Assembly. If you thought we'd just agree to this, please? [[...]] Well, you know how, if it's thought that we're going to agree that without every debate, we're going to let this matter go through a very short process or without any controversy, without any discussion, without any agenda, you've made a big mistake. Personally, I can't get past established practice. Let me understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u91	My colleague Kelemin, as far as the government's proposal is concerned, may or may not agree with it. This is a matter for each of us in our own conscience, according to our own beliefs. However, the business operator fulfils the conditions for consideration. The debate is also ongoing on the right issues, so I am not interrupting speakers because there is an argumented discussion. As long as people apply for, that is, colleagues and colleagues, it will continue. When the general debate is over, we will decide which way we will proceed. No one will stop the debate. The National Assembly will then decide with a majority what policy it will take on this issue. Comrade Podobnik, colleague Yuri, colleague Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. This debate should be held by a committee, not by me here now. Another time. I have information that the Šmartno referendum area in Lithuania has more than 5,000 inhabitants, according to the latest data. Look. These things should be carried out by the committee, Comrade Potch. I remember the practice of the previous two mandates, from case to case, from laboratory to laboratory, hours and hours, but not with one move, nothing This will also be very bad in the Constitutional Court. The only right move is to go back to the board. If in just one case we find that the government has slipped, then we have to question all the other 30 cases. That's how it's done in Parliament. If you've failed once, you may have failed twice. President, stop the debate and let me know.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u93	Comrade Companion, I will not interrupt this debate. I will adjourn the debate after the end when we decide whether to return to the committee or continue our decision. Surely the government will respond to some of the observations or objections that have been made. The government follows their statements in the report or opinion or will say that any of them may be changing. I don't know that. That's what the government is going to say. I'm not stopping this debate. Let's keep this one running until the end. There aren't many debaters anymore. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u94	Mr. President, I very much appreciate your guidance. But I have a procedural proposal. I propose that you find out by means of a procedural proposal that at least one instance of error has occurred by the Government and that the conditions have been met. I have a procedural proposal for the debate to end and for the mother's working body to meet. In the case of Šmartna in Lithuania, there was a mistake. There are over 5,000 inhabitants. If this is established, then it is only right to end this debate, because it will happen again when we come from the working body to this place. I have a procedural proposal for the debate to end and for the mother's working body to meet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u95	I propose, Comrade Sponik, that we make a proposal on whether or not the mother labour body will meet after the end of the discussion. At this point, not me, not you, probably can't put your hand in the fire, that the information given by the government in its opinion is accurate or wrong. This must be said by the government and probably will be at the end of the debate, I suppose. That is why I propose that we deal with the discussions until the end, that colleagues who have applied have the opportunity to come forward and that the government will answer that question, and then we will decide how we will proceed. Comrade Yuri, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u96	A very short replica to Comrade Sušnik, more for a magnetogram than for any other purpose, does not want to be "euphemism", but has already repeated three times the dictatorship that the National Assembly has abolished the commission for local self-government. I was the vice president of the last local self-government commission. Because of precision, the National Assembly did not terminate it, but it did not re-establish it. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u97	Also, my friend Rokavec, we've exhausted the replicas and we've got five more shows. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I have just come to the hall when my colleague Potrč discussed this concrete proposal of the referendum area for an initiative for a referendum area to establish the Šmartno municipality. During this time of discussion, representatives of the government and I have found that there have been six settlements in this proposal that are not currently infested, which clearly defines this referendum area as 5,000 inhabitants. Secondly, it was also clear that this referendum area had not yet been in decision-making. It is said that all the conditions are met. Too bad we have this debate here in the National Assembly. There should be an in-depth debate on each proposal within the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u99	With this, we have exhausted colleagues and colleagues from a long line of replicas, but I think there has been a discussion on the subject and it has been useful. Comrade Bernick has five minutes to perform, followed by his colleague Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! I'll be a little short. I was on a committee meeting with the Danish representatives, and I wanted to ask them how their congregations were arranged there and how they were doing, but there was no time. In my view, however, the question of municipalities is one of the fundamental issues of democracy. Democracy is at the bottom, not at the top. Therefore, I would like to remind you that we do not have a particularly good tradition in our community, because, if I understand correctly, Edward Kardelj has abolished countless municipalities without any debate. However, that the government proposes rejecting people's demands almost seems too arrogant and too poorly justified. In fact, it has been said that the government would justify any particular proposal, but I don't see it, just seeing it somehow relying on the existing laws as if they were written forever. Yesterday, our Ambassador Maja Zupan asked the Prime Minister how he imagined this to explain the matter. And, of course, as a good diplomat, this answer was very cleverly avoided and said, because that is what you will be dealing with. If this is so and if the coalition has not received any specific instructions on how to act in this regard and if this is left to the conscience of every Member, it seems appropriate for us to start thinking differently by allowing democracy to work. If we look at Article 3 of the Constitution, he says that in Slovenia he has authority over the people. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections. It's an immediate first qualification. It seems to me that sometimes we think a little too little about it. It would be necessary for the government to imagine this and also, at meetings held in the government, and to start thinking again about the whole matter. But we have to take this thing away. The sooner we get her out, the better. Let me put it this way. I have a feeling in the last draft laws that our government is somehow being restrained from the citizens. We had the opportunity to see it in the rules of procedure, constitutional change and so on. Why not reconsider this matter again? There's been a lot of technical explanations. My fellow Member, Sok, has brought many of them together. Therefore, we need to think about what to do in this case. And time drives us, of course. Nevertheless, the government should consider taking this matter back and proposing a law that will satisfy people. After all, we too depend on all these people, and if they have the need for these congregations, let them have it. After all, the country is not the guardian of all of us in the sense that it has to tell us what anyone wants or when to hurry, but that we ourselves are developing our personality, our community, etc. And let's move on with this concept. I count on the democratic awareness that our citizens are the ones who make the decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. My friend Rupar's not in the hall, is he? [[No, no, ……]] Then, as the last part of the debate in the morning, he has the word of his colleague Pukšič. He'll be followed by a colleague of Zupanov's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After my independence from 1990, I believe that the vast majority of citizens and citizens were one of the most important laws, which was the law on local self-government, which was adopted in 1994, which allowed for the establishment of local self-government from these municipal municipalities. From 1994 to today, with this topic - I will not say the problem, far from it, the problems were before, now this is a developmental topic - we are dealing for the third time. Colleagues and colleagues, there is not a single proposal after the two mandates which would suggest that the two still be so small or otherwise united. Well, that's not a proposal from the field. There are proposals for the establishment of some other congregations. Will we come to the point that each of you will become a congregation? I believe not. However, we will come to the conclusion that the wholes of the congregation will be rounded up, just as they correspond to the people in that area, in that local area, so that the whole congregation will be so rounded up. And that's right. In the local area, however, those people who live there must have the right to decide what kind of organisation they want to live in, how they want to have settled local infrastructure, what they want from the cultural field, the school area in the area for which the law on local self-government gives them the opportunity. As has been said several times today, we do not have any legal or moral options, but at least, colleagues and colleagues, to decide differently than has already been decided twice. If so, of course we must cut down until 1994. Which government, which minister, ministry or any MPs would like to hope for, I wonder deeply. It is a fact, and this has proved to be the only way to develop regionally, which is a guarantee for regional development. In fact, with the law on coherent regional development, we have come so far as to re-establish a number of bureaucratic institutions to which municipalities carry their own projects, to "multiple" situations, and so on, to provide all those bureaucratic tendering conditions that are at the time of receiving certain funds. The real substantive problem is the transfer of certain tasks from country to local community and the provision of sufficient resources to finance these local communities. It is too small for local communities to have 20 to 30% of the total investment budget and it is too difficult for tenders to take place through different ministries, so that this should be managed by local communities, somehow coordinated. This is a substantive problem where much more needs to be done, and it is very difficult to think about what and how, but together with representatives of local communities. I'm sure it won't work without them. I will conclude with this; the Constitutional Court has already told us in the previous term that it cannot be a national assembly of arbitrators and so on. Mr President, please suggest that the Committee decide on this again. I'll also suggest he commits to a certain time. We can't let them get into time distress, which, of course, can happen. I would certainly end with this sentence, but certainly Members and Members of Parliament, these people and those people who are behind them, there is no reason to be afraid of them - let us just give them the referendum areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I have two replicas, colleague mag. Exclusion and colleague Bevek. I suggest that we release our colleague Potrato at this time, and my colleague Bevk, after a break. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'm replicating my colleague Puksic in the part where he refers to human will. I leave aside how he or I understand the word of the people and replicate only in the part where he says that it is necessary to follow the will of people and realize their desire to exercise democracy directly. I ask him how to solve those cases, but I know exactly when a part of the proposal for a new congregation has been decided from a larger area, and the other part is, in the meantime, there is an area that has not been defined that they would like to have their own congregation. Where will this piece be attached now? For I point out the weakness of those proposals that do not think about what remains after, for example, the fact that, according to the Government's proposal and the expressed referendum will, what I am talking about has happened. Let me just say that. I have in my hands all the justifications, along with the maps that the government has drawn up to help the members of the Internal Policy Committee decide. If I put this together and compare it with what the two parliamentary groups have put forward as a proposal for amendments, I find that there are 56 proposals in the proposal of the amendments, including such proposals, which also exist very unrealistically and also strongly against the will of the people, because I have been to the assemblies of the citizens in those two places, but I am speaking, of course, of Dogs and Meta, of course, of the proposal to exclude these two settlements from Maribor. So I could also say that the proposal of the two groups is in the package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I suggest, given the hour, that we now suspend the morning session. I think there have been 48 debates, mostly, I think very good debates, a quality debate on the issue. Four more colleagues have been reported, which means that we will soon decide on the proposal after the break whether the mother's working body will meet or continue to make decisions. Once again, as I propose that we take advantage of this time of recess for reflection, both options are perfectly legitimate for continuing the decision - whether we are going to make a decision immediately or going through a committee. The Members and Members will decide which path is more appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the afternoon session. I would like to inform you that we have been added to our apologies for the continuation of the 13th session, 20.2.2002, Roberto Battelli for all day, Mario Gasparini for all day, Matjaž Švagan for all day and Rudolf Petan for the 12th to 15th hours. Since we're going to be present, I'd like to ask your attention. Please insert the cards. We're picking up the presence! Presence 44, I don't think it reflects the actual situation in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention again, because next time we're going to find presence in the hall. We're picking up the presence! 49 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. In this morning's part, we adjourned the debate during the general debate. In the following order, the debate was opened: Mr Bevk will first have a replica, then Mrs Zupan, Mr Sušnik, Mr Ašič, and Mr Minister also made a statement. I'm sorry. Who else wants to discuss it? Mr. Rupar, I think you were already called to the floor, but you weren't in the hall at the time. As the general debate is not concluded, there is no problem. I give Mr. Bevk a word for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. I have a replica of a fellow Member of Parliament, Puksic. Of course, reverse-facing processes are also possible. Today, though, there is no legal or better - said business basis for proposing referendums in the congregations in order to reunite. In 1994, a number of municipalities received no referendum support, although they met all the legal criteria, despite the opposition of voters and voters in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Like the process of disintegration or the process of fragmentation of municipalities, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia can we also initiate the process of reunifying Slovenian municipalities? I think that it is also possible in existing municipalities, which have all the conditions under law, to initiate procedures where there are no such conditions, on the basis of a civil initiative or amendments in the National Assembly. I ask all those colleagues and colleagues who are proposing new and new congregations, would they be willing to take into account the will of voters and voters in the referendum to vote on the abolition of the already existing congregation and to propose an association with the neighbouring congregation at the referendum? I think this will be a very difficult decision for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much. And now for the debate. The word has Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I would like to draw attention to two things, namely, that I myself find that the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent has not done its job as it should. I agree with Mr. Sponik and his criticism. However, I am a little surprised by the rapporteur, who is his party colleague, I think, but he was extremely silent when reporting himself. The government product is bad, I've already figured it out on the committee and I have to say it again. We have also been extremely limited in time. We got an invitation, at least I got it after the 6:00 p.m. meeting on Wednesday, Thursday at 6:00 p.m., the board meeting. Thus, we did not have much time to review and write amendments. It was also just debate and decision-making on the committee, I must say, milky, even so, and we did not have the opportunity to decide each case, but it was simply offered in a package. The second thing I would like to point out is this dilemma that we are Members of. I am referring to the regulation of the law concerning the five thousand inhabitants and the reasons which may also mean an exception - this is about these geographical, historical, border and economic ones. We are aware that all the proponents - in some future cases there would be fewer than five thousand people - have given reasons and, in their opinion, also give good reasons to justify an exception. Whether the reasons are indeed such, it is relative - they are for the proposer but not for the government. Once again, I ask what criteria the government had in deciding that it had made a decision like that. Why did she make that decision this year and in 1998? Four years ago, as I have the data, more than 60 proposals were tabled, 20 supported by the government and 14 of them had fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. I would like to give you a concrete example. I myself, as a Member, have tabled a proposal for the establishment of a municipality, with the same content, also tabled by the initiating committee on behalf of the Rakek Assembly of Citizens. Our local community is in the municipality of Cerknica and in 1994 the municipality of Cerknica was separated from the municipality of Loška dolina with a population of about 3,600. In 1998 the municipality Blocke-Nova Vas, with 1,600 inhabitants, was excommunicated from the Municipality of Loška dolina. In 2002, however, in our local community, this decision has matured to put forward a proposal for the establishment of a municipality, but it has simply been closed to us with a proposal and a government opinion. Tell me, as a Member, how to answer my country's questions, whether the laws apply equally or are interpreted differently, given that the laws have not been amended at that time. I think that democracy must be nurtured directly and that we must not run away from it. In our parliamentary group, we would like to give everyone who has proposed to their congregation to decide at the referendum, only then will we be able to make a more competent decision in the National Assembly on which municipalities actually comply with the provisions of the law and which they do not. We will also request a referendum for the establishment of the provinces and for something else. Our country was created on the basis of plebiscite and no one can say that it was not possible to participate and decide, so it is right for all of these applicants or all of the inhabitants in the area of these local communities to be able to decide at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. He was pleased to comment on two of the Government's arguments in explanation of the decision submitted by the Government to the National Assembly to conclude that none of the proposals submitted for the establishment of a new municipality met the conditions laid down by the law. In fact, in my view, I find it very controversial to quote, "that due to past practice in the future it is necessary to take into account the conditions and criteria that sufficiently objectively objective the establishment of new municipalities". And then the last paragraph in the opening part of the explanation, the last sentence, "therefore the redrafting of its proposal, as already explained in the introduction of the opinion, has not deviated from the conditions and criteria laid down by the law, although these have been repeatedly neglected in the previous procedures for the formation of municipalities". The government simply claims that the National Assembly went beyond the law in 1994 and 1998, which I strongly doubt, and I am convinced that the National Assembly has taken further account of Article 13a, that the reasons were valid and that the "technician" justification, and taking into account Article 13a, has led to the formation of municipalities that comply with the law on local self-government, which is not bad and which takes into account all the differences that have arisen in the 40-year operation of the municipal system in Slovenia. I do not agree with the claim, even though I was not in that mandate to adopt some laws that would set up municipalities in breach of the legislation in force. That is also why, I hope, because the government proposal simply "pulled" all the explanations of the exceptional municipalities - those who do not have 5,000 inhabitants - you have satisfied yourself with the following explanation: "The reasons for the exception are not sufficient." It's all gone. Such an argument of these reasons, which the proponents have very carefully stated in terms of the implementation of Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, does not hold back and is worthy of all criticism, I think. Now I'm going to try to justify that. See, in 1998, a congregation of 1,500 people was formed in my immediate neighborhood. The need to establish a congregation is based on the fact that in 1953 there were twice as many people there, that they had a complete primary school and branch school, but that the start of a new congregation, under a new law, began with four classes of the branch school. I am convinced that the National Assembly, when establishing this municipality, has taken into account the national interest; the national interests of the sense of ensuring rural settlement; and in the sense of repopulating this area in the 40s of the municipal system, a completely empty area of Slovenia. And that's how it is. By establishing a new congregation, population growth trends have turned. To highlight that aspect, in all the old municipalities, and in the communes in general, there was a markedly neglected aspect of planning the use of space, which narrowed down only to that local municipal centre and therefore there was such a marked celebration of the countryside. A similar and other case, on the other hand, is more western, but today is a prominent scream, is part of the Kamnik municipality, which is geographically completely separated from this municipality, this is specifically for the local communities of Motnik and Hospitalič, who also had a full primary school and branch school in Hospitalič in the 1950s. Today we have come so far for this policy that in Motnik we only have a four-year primary school where in the last school year only two people entered one year. I ask you if it is not in the national interest to set up a separate congregation in this geographically rounded area just to preserve rural settlement and to prevent the creation of a bear reserve there - which is also defined in the strategy for the management of the brown bear. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Since I'm running out of time, I'm going to put the second part of the explanation into a replica. [[...]] I'll find it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure allow you to make a real connection to the word as long as it is the way it is. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! Actually, I have to say that I was kind of looking forward to it, and I'm also afraid of this agenda item. I am pleased that we will once again host some of the Olympic Games, where we will or will not give a medal; but it is happening to us every four years in the same way and there is no way that neither us nor our authorities in the National Assembly nor the government and government authorities can be taught that some things need to be done in time. And that turned out four years ago. And if we can forgive some of the events eight years ago when it all just started, then what happened four years ago was certainly a serious reminder that certain areas of the law needed to be corrected; both in the law on local self-government and in the law on the financing of municipalities. Four years ago, I was the one who proposed at the time of the adoption of the decision to initiate the procedure for the establishment of municipalities, and decided that the law on the financing of municipalities should be amended before the referendums were called for, but that did not happen. Then we even had a complication, which probably Mr Podobnik recalled the last time I proposed a similar decision again, and he reminded me that this should not affect whether or not we will continue the procedure. In this part, however, there are many stories and reasons why we are having such a debate today as we are leading it. In the debates we have heard many reasons why the new municipalities - or because someone has promised to support the mayor in the elections or because the members of the municipalities are not satisfied with the municipal council and the mayor's operation, or because something else does not fit them. A number of things may need to be rectified in the electoral law, for as elected by the congregational councils in large congregations, they may not be good from the national assembly to the congregations. For many times there are no saints, yet; even if they have saints, there are many, and they are even easier to propose and bring forth a proposal for a new congregation in the congregation. But I think the fundamental problem is actually funding. However, if we are to call for referendums, then we must be aware that we should not change the current mode of funding. For all those who were preparing proposals for new municipalities, these proposals were based on an assessment and financial assessment of the operation over the next four years based on current legislation and current practice. This practice suggests that each new division increases the volume of funds in one area and, of course, continues to put pressure on the budget of the State, the Republic of Slovenia. Many things your colleagues argue that if the congregation does not have something, there is no particular problem. It's a problem! Some of your colleagues will remember that many times after we set up the congregations four years ago, you said, "Yes, listen, since the country has established this congregation, it must build a new school!" - that hasn't happened yet. These arguments were often used by some when we discussed budgets. So we are actually the ones who are also generating some problems in the National Assembly. And today we say: no problem if there is no healthcare home; but at the future budget we will say: it must be a health home and the state must finance it, because we have established this congregation. This is some circle in which we are no smaller players than the government and like everyone else, and of course we are responsible. It is true that the view of maps of Slovenian municipalities is quite tragic and you can see what mistakes we have made and that something has to be done. For if we look north-east or west of Slovenia, there is a completely different picture, as if looking south-south-east, maybe some other parts. The municipalities in Slovenia are really not comparable today. We have areas with a bunch of small municipalities, we have areas with big municipalities. However, if we were to take care of legislation, more appropriate - but I am not saying this to the current government suit, three government suits were involved: the former - our - Ministry of Local Self-Government, which continued its work also in the transitional Bajuk government and continues today. No one had any, so he didn't take a step to [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u114	Mr. Auschwitz, please, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u115	offered a new law for admission. [[...]] I'm not going to predict the continuation of this in the replica, but I think I'll have a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u117	Well, what I'm about to say now is not exactly what I've concluded before; but given that Mr Ašič said something about the need to change the law on the financing of municipalities, I think there is something else to be added here. The fact is that only 28 municipalities were financially independent in 2001, and this shows that there is actually something wrong with the law on the financing of municipalities. But this does not mean that less municipalities need to be given, but that municipalities need to be given greater financial autonomy. This means that, in the form of financial compensation or in the form of greater competence, a greater share of income and other taxes to be left to the municipalities should be ensured that they have more money left for their operations. Look. Finally, the European Commission's report on local self-government is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u118	Just a moment, Mr. Sušnik. Dear colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u119	Replicating [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u120	I pray for peace in the hall that I may [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u121	The European Commission for Local Self-Government has also made it clear to us that we are one of the few countries that gives extremely little gross social product to the local level. The figures are 5%, the first comparable European country is 20%. With regard to what I understand, the fear of the government, which states that the possible establishment of new municipalities and the adoption of budgets for 2002 and 2003 would require an internal redeployment of state budget resources or additional commitments to the state budget. Look. While this claim is true, it also points in this direction and shows where the rabbit is. In the back, it is concerned that more money for rural development, more money from Ljubljana for the environment, all indicators, including the latest report by the European Commission, will have to be made available from the centre, or in particular due to the possible establishment of new municipalities. I think so - I see no reason, if we look at it from this point of view, that the establishment of new municipalities is in accordance with the law, even our great contribution to the decentralisation of consumption in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Sok also has a replica of the implementation of Mr Ašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u123	I'd say so to Mr. Auschwitz. Those who advocate the financial autonomy of the municipalities, in fact, agree that our rural areas remain lagging behind and underdeveloped with insufficient financial resources and that the centres, especially the metropolis, are rapidly evolving. I do not know a country on a European scale that does not have a financial settlement mechanism. The financial settlement mechanism must exist if we want a country to develop in a polycentric, evenly. Because I don't know if it's necessary to tell this story again. Wages are much lower on average, much less good jobs. Much worse conditions are for work, our area is mostly agricultural. For all sectors of the economy, agriculture is the least profitable and the most profitable banking. Well, correct me if that's not the case. And where the centres are, where the institutions are, I would say, the organizations of banks, insurance companies, trade unions and so on, if not in the city. So, if we agree to this, then we will really get two Slovenias: one developed and one up there in the Halo region or up there, I don't know, on Goričko, which will become empty and have room, what some would like anyway to do to protect the game more than our citizens and citizens. You're talking about health homes. Yes, but where does it say that there must be 20,000 people for the functioning of a healthcare home in a municipality! However, congregations can be organized by gravitating to a health center in several municipalities or by allowing accelerated privatisation in this area, as Western European Union countries know. I need, I don't know, a doctor, and I don't care if he's private or working in a health care facility. Where is it that we have to have, I don't know, health homes? The second question is the libraries. The second question, but this can be resolved through the law on the provinces that you have been promising for so long, but you have not been able to submit it to this national assembly by this time. And one more thing, what my predecessor, Ambassador Sušnik, has said is true. Slovenia - and this is also recognised by the government itself - Slovenia devotes relatively little money to local self-government. Very little, compared to the countries of the European Union. The data reported by representatives from the European Commission for Local Self-Government was that Sweden has the highest allocation of 30% of the state budget. Of course, they may also have different responsibilities. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in. But one is, it says, the congregation as a formal creation, the lowest area of authority of one state, and the other is the area of competence, and the third is the area of funding. You have every opportunity to adopt and adapt this legislation as it is created or regulated in the European Union. But I don't know a country that doesn't know the financial settlement mechanism. I listened to the German mayors about this and they said that, in fact, there are the most discussions in the parliaments of the country governments and they are also arguing creatively about what kind of financial settlement they will adopt for a year. And in these debates, it is about the fact that large municipalities claim to be underprivileged, that they also claim to be small congregations, that in the end it is the country government and the country parliament that decides what level of financial settlement will apply for a certain year. I say that small congregations are extremely successful, we can see that, too, you can see those who live in small congregations, there is no proposal for any to be abolished, not the least, like Kobilje. I even claim that the most successful municipality is among all in Slovenia, as far as the rate of development is concerned, or the municipality of Hodos, where we were told clearly and loudly when the railway was opened. The government does not want to listen to this, does not want to take this into account, does not want development in Slovenia to go at the pace that we have started, forward, and this is actually a shame. For remote areas in Slovenia, in particular demographically endangered areas, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I'll finish right away - they're losing. [[...]] And where we're gonna lose [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u125	Let me just say that where we lose people at some point, we'll never get them back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Two replicas. First Mr. Auschwitz, then Mr. Marshich. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I really don't know how I got Mr Sok's replica of Hodosh, but I don't know about the principles of financing the European Union. But the beginning was a little on me, and here I want to explain to him that he didn't understand me. But I simply didn’t say anything about it so that the financial autonomy of the congregations would impoverish the countryside. This is a new matter for me because we know what the congregation’s financial autonomy is. If it generates sufficient own revenue to ensure an adequate level of consumption within its borders, it will otherwise receive financial compensation. That's it. And I didn't say anything like that. I have argued that if we are to call a referendum today for any new municipality, the funding system must remain at least at this level, as it is now, so that it will not cause problems for the next four years. But it's not like we're going to be changing the law in three months, just like we did in the past period, and then there's going to be a whole scream and a scream and a constitutional court, and the law "flies". That's what happened to us, unfortunately, and I don't think we understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to refer to the implementation of my colleague Sok when he speaks of countries in Europe knowing subsidies to municipalities. Of course they do. But it is also necessary to say this because I will also replicate what has already been said that how many and what congregations know in other countries across Europe. I think it's a lack of information. It is not enough to say that in European countries there are 500, 600, 700 small municipalities. It has to be said because I think that this is the basic question of how they live and how they survive. What powers they have and how much, after all, they cost if they cannot survive on their own. I think this Pandora's box, which was opened years ago in the National Assembly, doesn't go on with it. I am new to this mandate, and I also have a mandate to only approve the establishment of new municipalities if they meet the criteria laid down in the law. The establishment of new municipalities, as was said to prevent some financial flows from the periphery to the centre, could be said that preventing the establishment of new municipalities would prevent another financial flow. It has already been said here that only one percentage is fixed, and this is a very small one, and municipalities that survive alone with financial resources are not financially independent, survive financially. This financial flow - we can also say precisely by going from the developed communities, to those who are independent, who get little from the financial alignment of the fighting, that this financial flow simply flows into those who cannot survive. It's also the power to understand these things. Finally, what European experience there is to be said. I had this chance, I have to say, good, because it refreshed my memory a little more. Today there was a Danish delegation here from the Kingdom of Denmark. We also talked about congregational issues: large, small congregations, how these things are being solved. That's right! If the congregation does not survive alone, it means that it has to initiate merger procedures with other municipalities itself, so that it can act - that is, to do things that are of a common character that it cannot carry out on its own. Similar processes and procedures also take place in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, especially through the association of the Dutch municipalities of 500 municipalities. They have also found that this simple process of congregation frequency to the ever smaller municipalities, to municipalities that cannot survive themselves, does not work, and they have launched new procedures by which, with studies and research, and also on specific occasions, they simply combine the municipalities because they see that there is an advantage in this. So I must say that I will not support the new congregations if they do not meet the criteria and, above all, if they do not know in advance that they will not be able to survive on their own. Because I also said what I practically thought and somehow it was part of this replica, I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Rupar also announced the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellows and fellows, dearly respected. Unlike my colleague in front of me, I will say that I will support the formation or establishment of all new congregations. The reason for that is simple. I personally believe that the government can give its views on the basis of the interests expressed. It is also his opinion that an individual in the National Assembly, after all, has the legal right to decide on it also by the National Assembly - that is the law and life is something else altogether. Personally, I feel that neither the government nor the national assembly can decide in such a case as the establishment of congregations, at their own will or at their own discretion. I claim that people have the constitutional right and the legal right to decide on this at the referendum. So it is the task of the government and the task of this council to enable them to do so. Especially because this is so under the same prime minister years ago as it is now - it is the duty of all people to treat it as equal and all initiatives as equivalent. I remember years ago, as far as I know, no initiative was rejected by the government and in this National Assembly; without confirming all the proposals that came in time for the invitation or through the procedure, even here we have invested them for each of you, for everyone who remembered to set up their own congregation, and very many of them have been confirmed. Personally, I agree that the criteria written in the law are also respected. However, we should have done so four years ago, and eight years ago, to start them now, it is extremely and very late. Personally, I think that everything we are talking about here is a very great topic that we all know, regardless of our profession, about the client; it is a topic that gives endless energy and opportunities to debate. However, I personally think, once again, that everything that is happening here in relation to these is irrelevant. We're doing local self-government right now on the tail, not on the head. There were many debates about other laws, the law on local self-government, and how many times there had been comments or references to the law on the financing of municipalities. These are the laws that we should arrange in this national assembly before we go to talk about the formation of new congregations. In most cases, the creation of new congregations is purely a computer. It's a bill. According to what we now have in force in these laws, people have calculated that one small congregation plus one small congregation is equivalent to 2.5 to the large budget of a central congregation. So, there are also municipalities in an unequal position, there is a larger congregation, there is less money, with the exception of the city’s municipalities. So it's simply a calculation of who gave these people the thought and knowing that it's worth their while to make an effort to set up their own congregation. Even because these large congregations may be in most cases, in fact, it is not possible, I even argue that in most cases they have unevenly financed the development of the congregations in their territory. So these are local communities which, according to people, are deprived of municipal budgets, and they felt that, of course, it was justified to somehow attract these financial resources to their area by means of an initiative to establish their municipality. Of course, I absolutely reject the thesis, which sounds very often, that most of these initiatives are just because individual ambitious people in those districts want to be mayor. Personally, I do not agree with the debates that have been on this side, if that is the case, this is not the case. You know, if it does, then let's just keep these individuals quiet and give people a chance to say whether it's the right definition to set up a congregation or not. No one will tell me that the European Union is the one who, with its declarations and its laws, influences Slovenia to [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Ma'am, I'd like a minute. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u133	I think I have such an interesting debate that we would like to continue listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u134	But you'll call again. I'm sorry, the deal was we were really trying to close our minds 15 seconds before we were done. Thank you very much, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u135	All right. A replica of the gentlemen he gave me, even though he hasn't told me yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Two replicas, first Mr. Bevk, then Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I have a replica of the implementation of my fellow Member, Mr Rupar. The original sin of today's discussion is unfortunately in the wrong law on the financing of municipalities, to which I have, in the last year's questions, three times in the course of the last year, pointed out both the financial ministry and the government as a whole. As long as the law allows many municipalities to obtain 60, 70 and even more than 80 % of the financial compensation directly from the state budget and that there is even a municipality that has only 17% of its own resources, and as long as, under Article 26 of the Law on Community Financing, up to 70% of the state funds for individual investments are eligible, then the process of fragmentation of municipalities is almost impossible to stop. Thus, small and financially insolvent municipalities are twice privileged compared to others, so to speak, to forgive the expression, the normal municipalities themselves, who are able to ensure their normal functioning, so that from the state budget so-called small municipalities receive relatively large amounts of financial compensation and also an abnormally large proportion of funds for investments in the congregation. I would therefore suggest that the National Assembly, if it has already adopted certain decisions and recommends to the Government that it respects the decision it has reached at its 10th regular meeting on 21 November 2001, I think that it has proposed, at the 10th regular meeting on 21 November 2001, a colleague of Auschwitz, when he said or when we have adopted an additional decision, that the Government should submit a law amending and supplementing the Law on Community Financing prior to the establishment of the referendums and the call for referendums in individual municipalities. I think that this is a government obligation, if the National Assembly has already adopted such a decision, and at that time, I think that the discussion would be turned in a slightly different direction, perhaps even in the same direction as I said earlier in the replica to my fellow Member Puksic, so that the National Assembly could also start thinking about starting a reverse process, not a disintegration process, but a process of integration of Slovenian municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Rupar also has a replica of the implementation of Mr Kebric, and then Mr Pukšič, Mr Rupar and Mr Sušnik have a replica of the implementation. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I'm replicating my colleague, and I'm asking him the following questions. It is very important, but I will not mention the percentages that Bevk has already stated in some of his implementation, but how much resources will be available to the new congregations. And when he said - this is my replica - on whose account small congregations will have more resources than large congregations. On whose account? If we adhere to the basic principle that from the State budget for municipalities for local self-government in this sense, so much money - the 2002 and 2003 budget - we have adopted in this National Assembly - whether we will now change everything in view of the fact that the new municipalities will demand and will also be legally entitled to a larger amount from the State budget for balancing, chieftain and so on, that I do not go into detail because I want to bring this matter to a reasonable conclusion as soon as possible, that we will take into account the content that I spoke about on behalf of the parliamentary group and that we will not be purely formalists, that we do not tell bureaucrats that we are sticking to certain paragraphs, which unfortunately in the previous reference, when we set up and set up so many new municipalities that we have not yet had the conditions for a single existence, but are financed by additional resources of the state budget. Mr. Rupar's colleague. Answer me, from which address will the small new congregations have more resources than is now planned for this number of congregations we have. However, I will join the opinion which will have the weight of the arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Replica first, Mr. Pukšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I strongly oppose and replicate Mr Sam Bevk - this, with regard to the missed financing law, in the part where he says that smaller municipalities have two privileges: the first time in balancing and the second time in a large share of investment. Mr. Bevk, I'm asking you, which of the parents would separate children like that. One is smart and capable of studying, and the other is not. But because he's smart and capable and has some other options like this other one, of course he'll have to buy a dress, a coat, something else, and the other one, of course, take some more socks and let him finish as soon as possible. This is, of course, the desire and way of those who are vehemently opposed to the establishment of new congregations, even though in eight years it has proved to be a major change because of these new congregations. First of all, the population is changing. Secondly, rural infrastructure, in a demographically threatened area where there were no roads, no water supply, no health homes, no schools until yesterday, all of this is being invested today. Why? It is also because control over these funds is, of course, more economical because of the use of these funds. But I would like to answer where the possibilities for funding are, so that we can be more even. We are talking, you know, about some kind of law we passed, which is called consistent regional development. That's not true. Nothing has changed since the issue of this law. It's: worse than better. It's only better with these new congregations. And where is this possibility of a truly coherent regional development, that there would not be so many demands for local self-government, in the new municipalities, although I still claim that people in that area have the right to decide for themselves what kind of organisation they will live in. Look. The former Minister of Finance has been promising us a bailout law for three years. Today, if you look at the 2002 and 2003 adopted budgets, you will see that about five billion more funds are spent over that suitable spending in a few congregations, in a few congregations. Of course, because it is in large, urban, etc., no one remembers or hopes to reduce this issue as it is in all European countries. 35% of income - yes, for Ljubljana, because it has 100% employment, it means something. For smaller congregations in the periphery, in fact, this means nothing. So, we have a small country so that we can play with it and that we can leave the rest of Slovenia - although you know well from all the data that is available, what quality of life is like, what level of unemployment is significantly worse, yet people persist and remain in these areas, also thanks to the establishment of the congregations, and also because these congregations have started, so, some life in this area, when everything has actually begun to be emptied out of exile. Thus, of course, such an explanation of the privileges of the small congregation is totally unjustifiable. Much more should be done to bring these congregations in order to bring a quality life in these areas in roughly the same way as others in urban settlements. We're too small, we don't have some Russian opaque surfaces, etc., we don't, but we have this little Slovenia that we're going to have to take care of much more, just as of course they knew other countries and we're going to need it. The only guarantee for this is those small congregations.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u143	Sam Bevk and Mr DeSUS colleague. Mr Bevk, you did not replicate anything to me, because I did not mistake you in any way, but we agreed that the law on the financing of municipalities at this time was very yes, explained, but not on my account. [[...]] So, that's it. You didn't even touch the word "rupard." Your Honor, my colleague, your answer. Small congregations will be funded at their own expense, at no other expense. If the state is the one with its own budget, and if it puts it back in the congregations, it is still their account. The country doesn't produce this money, but it picks it up there first, then puts it back in small pieces. So, people, congregations, and we work on our own account, not on any other account. But, of course, you were talking about privileges. It is right that small congregations have privileges, right! Why should he have the privileges of Ljubljana alone and exclusively? Sorry, I'm not from a small congregation - as big as we are and as well developed. Ljubljana is above average developed. What about small congregations? He said today, sir, I don't know who goes to work in double shoes, because they have one, excuse me, dirty ones, then they change. Why shouldn't these little people be privileged once in this Slovenia? Let them be, let them! Let them decide for themselves. You know, these discussions by most people, therefore, are no longer debates in some transition. In my opinion, these are debates in transvestment, you know: they're made nice and underneath the dress, who knows what.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Type of replica, first Mr Sušnik, then Mr Malovre, Mr Trofenik and Mr Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I would like to replicate that part of Mr Bevek's implementation when he spoke about the financial autonomy of the municipalities. Of course, there's been a lot of manipulation. Many manipulations because obviously we do not have clear concepts of what the financial autonomy of the congregations is. The Law on the financing of municipalities is unfair in that, in filling the state budget, all the same burdens, regardless of how economically viable, developed and viable an area is, if I say so, depending also on the level of employment, the relationship between employees and the agricultural population - all that is characteristic of our Slovenia. If we stick to the European Charter and lay down the European Charter on Local Self-Government and allow the people of municipalities to first meet their needs, then fill the state budget, and find that some municipalities are not financially independent, assuming that people first fill the municipal budget with taxes and income, and then find that they are not independent, then they can talk about the financial autonomy of the municipalities. While you were talking about financial autonomy, you compared only some agreement that is extremely unfair and which puts urban, densely populated, highly developed areas of Slovenia into a highly privileged position. No one, no one so far has been able to achieve more of their own revenue than proper spending, which has been taken back, I do not know, even though it was some kind of agreement, how much and how to spend at local level. In essence, financial compensation means that part of the income or the maximum cake that citizens pay to the State is returned to that congregation to meet their own needs. I think that in principle the matter should be set up differently - first to meet local needs and then to pay or fill the state budget, then we could talk substantially differently about the financial autonomy of the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Malovre, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I didn't mean to come by, but I'd like to replicate Mr. Kebrich a little bit as well as Mr. Bevk. In fact, it is an original sin, as Mr Bevk said, in the law on the financing of municipalities. And this will be paid by a state or government that has not done its work by amending the Law on the Financing of the Congregations. For eight years ago we first launched the plaza of small congregations and four years ago again, and it was known that this phenomenon would happen again during this period, given that there were quite a few requirements in the past period. Now, as an MEP and as mayor of the municipality of Šentjur, I have no face to come back to our place because four years ago the local community of Dobe set up a new municipality, and if we stayed within the municipality of Šentjur, 71 million would have run into the budget of the municipality of Šentjur, depending on the number of inhabitants. Because they are as a single congregation, they together receive 114 million dollars to compensate. And this is the leader of smaller local communities, smaller towns, to establish new and new congregations. And as long as that's the case, this beach will continue. In the case of the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, when it comes to the National Assembly, I would like to see those Members who will vote in favour of getting fewer congregations. For that Member, except from Ljubljana, I doubt that he will still be elected to the National Assembly and in this way will also harm the area from which he comes. Otherwise, in Europe, funding for municipalities is much higher than for us, funding for local communities is much higher than for us, but here we need to know what the state of the local community is doing. This is not defined for us, but especially for us, the country is constantly imposing new and new obligations on local communities, without the local community asking for anything. Here I am thinking mainly of education and children's protection and, of course, of social protection, particularly in those areas, particularly in those areas where there are no jobs, where there is a need to take care of the unemployed, where there is a need to take care of people with major social problems. And here's the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Trophynik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you. It wasn't my intention to replicate, but it was in the debate, specifically I'm going to tell my colleague Pukšič that it would be a little easier because I have to replicate someone. It is meant for all those who have discussed funding and talked about some foreign experiences and cited so many inaccuracies that a person is appalled. We refer to some of the European instruments on local self-government, where, what has been said here, it does not say anything. And for some cases that are diametrically opposite. Very telegraph and short-style. Austria is called upon by many as an example of small congregations. Austria is the principal: for the municipality of 10 thousand inhabitants 1.1 thirds, for 20 thousand 1.2 thirds, for the municipality with 50 thousand twice, grows further. In Switzerland it goes similarly, only slightly slower, that the headship in the congregation is 150 thousand, at 1.5 lowest headship and so on. Secondly, there are inaccuracies in which you claim that where regionalism is, there is a financial correlation between the local community and the region. That's not true. The financial settlement is always horizontal among the municipalities first and then between the country or the relevant country in Germany or the canton in Switzerland; the second, the level of local self-government is financed from below by municipal membership and from above with the contribution of the State, and never from another level - financial alignment. These are, I'm sorry, the untruths that the public is deceiving and something is throwing at it. Financial compensation, such a favourable financial settlement in the system, which is a systemic error that we have, Europe does not know. There is never a financial levelling difference - for our terms - between proper consumption and own income, but up to one limit, generally between 75 and 90 percent of that estimated height. And please, let's be honest, let's not fool the public when we list something like that from the sleeve, when we're looking for arguments that aren't and that are diametrically different in Europe. Secondly, this debate on large and small areas - specifically for the Bavarian country, the law in force this year. A municipality with a population of less than 10,000 does not receive a decommissioned portion of the car tax of 9 per cent or 16. The discounted share is growing in size. Under ten thousand, he gets nothing from this source. Germany: Each municipality pays a Member State or contribution to the EU, which Germany pays 20 per cent of the entire EU budget. And secondly, every municipality in Germany pays a contribution to the development of former East Germany. This is quite different from what we convince our public, and once we change the law, we will probably write as much as we write European. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the replica, then Mr Kebric, Mr Rupar and Mr Sok. Mr. Bevk, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, things are much more complicated than they seem at first sight. The system of financing municipalities is also unfair to those municipalities where more than 50 percent of the population is urban. I'll give you a case. The municipality of Idrija has 12 thousand inhabitants, more than 50 percent of whom live in Idrija. Let me also say that at the time when we had 60 Slovenian municipalities, Idrija was one of the few, or I think that the only municipality in the country, of 60, which was demographically threatened. And now it is all of a sudden - in addition to Idrija having a relatively high income per capita. And now all of a sudden, the main criterion in the law on the financing of municipalities is the amount of income per capita - I speak for investments. This is the notorious scale of Article 26 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, where, on average, income per capita is on average tax in the municipality, it is possible for the State to contribute 70 per cent to certain investments and for some only 10 per cent. Therefore, I would like to make a specific example of why in such municipalities where more than 50% of the urban population feel that this system is unfair. See, now in the municipality of Idrija we will be building a branch school in one small local community, which has 500, 600 inhabitants and which is one of the rare local communities in a demographically threatened environment that is not demographically endangered. It's said that there are quite a few small school-bound children. And now, because of this meaningless criterion, we will have to raise 90% of the funds for this primary school on our own. Already in socialism for 25 years we have been collecting self-contribution and building all primary schools in the municipality, not one of them has been built by the country; we have built schools in Cerknem, Idrija, Lower Idrija, in Montenegro. Now that we want equal funding, we will have to finance this only branch school on our own. Look, primary school is compulsory for all residents, I'd say it's a constitutional category. And I don't know why for one school a country in a local community would contribute 10% of the funds, and in another local community in another part of Slovenia, where income per capita would be reduced by 70% of the funds. And there are a lot of such anomalies in the law on the financing of municipalities. Now it seems that we will also have to implement this system in the restoration of cultural historical heritage. Some castle on a hill in the west of Slovenia or some castle on a hill in the south of Slovenia will be, because in that municipality, near that hill, the income per capita will be so high, there will be 10% for the renovation of the castle and 70% on that side. You can see it's in conflict with all the wisdom and logic. That is why I say that the main sin of this discussion is in the Law on Community Financing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Rupar, you haven't answered my question, but it's no big deal. We are arguing with each other by doing what we have seen in the field, when citizens have told us one thing, the other and the third. Some of us move around our constituency, others only in the constituency, and some of us walk all over Slovenia because we are invited to various meetings and talks and explanations. Comrade Malover answered for you. He said well: Rather, the local community would receive 70 million if I understood it correctly, but now that it is a new congregation, 114 million. It follows from this that my argument and my view of this problem of local self-government have seen that, if they are established, the new municipalities have seen the possibility of obtaining more resources than in the previous framework. If we were kept in the previous Parliament, when we had this issue on the agenda, that the state would give for everything only as much as it can, and let them agree on what they will get, we would not have this problem today and we would not have so many new congregations. The point of the problem is somewhere else. This desire for new municipalities is justified, justified and justified for a simple reason, because from the state treasury, they will all receive more from the state budget. This is a fact that Members must take into account as such. How will we define ourselves in the state budget dilemma when we discuss 2004 because it still falls within our mandate is another problem. Will we then share the funds so that they can be given to each congregation? But the basic problem remains different, not this one, at the wishes of the new congregations and that they will receive more resources. The main problem is that I asked you whether the new municipalities would actually be doing more rationally, doing more economically - if we speak from the top that the state is a bad host, then the lower hierarchy is as bad. I claim that small and new municipalities will be better masters without considering that they will have to pay the mayor and the mayor, and the ficus secretary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u155	Well, just in time. First of all, Mr. Trofenic. They don't have a system like he said in Austria. In Austria, the municipality receives funding from the state level and from the regional level. Thus, the municipalities do not finance the region, but the state budget is first divided into individual regions, and then autonomously they approach the congregations and then divide the money among themselves. Thus, the municipal budget in Austria is divided: state + regional = municipal. I know very well because I am monitoring the Municipality of Sele in Koroškem with 700 inhabitants. Sir, my friend, I'm taking advantage of your opportunity. Why are you asking me if you know everything? Why do you ask me how the congregations will be financed, and then what if with your left hand you list everything and know everything? You know, I think this debate is already over. We speak about funding the congregations all the time, but today we are talking about whether we will give these people the opportunity to go to a referendum and decide on the emergence of new congregations and changes. We're talking about this and it's a complete waste of time. Today's item will not produce any results with regard to the financing of municipalities. I have already taken the initiative to set up a subcommittee within the Committee on Home Affairs and appoint it and give it the task of exclusively dealing with local self-government. There's a start, I said in my debate that we started with the tail today, not the head. If we started there, in funding, this would be the right thing to do today. I would also like to say that - and now I will return to this funding myself - the development of small congregations has been proven in a positive direction. It's proven. Also here, in this National Assembly there are mayors who are mayors of municipalities who were created in the last change of territories. Today, let one of these mayors tell me he's not successful. Let him say he's not successful! Everyone will say: I am successful, the congregation, ours, is successful. It's a simple calculation, you said it. If we have allocated funds in the congregation to individual local communities, and if you said someone gets 70 for example, now they're going to get 115 million, and yes, "probably" is - excuse the expression. However, there is already a clear difference in finances and the possibility that this congregation or this local community will do more in its previous form. Ask all mayors of Slovenian municipalities if they are unsuccessful. Let's wait another month, six months, they'll all knock: my congregation is successful, you vote for me. And it's also right, they're successful, and let's give them a chance to prove that they're successful, that they're successful. We have done this in the previous term to a group of people, and now we are preventing new ones. Let's give them a chance. I urge you to vote yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, the replica. You are now registered for replicas first, Mr Sok, Mr Pukšič, Mr Kremjar and Mr Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. I wanted to replicate the honourable Member, Mr Trofenik, so, I would say, his group leader, Mr Podobnik, but I can't because Mr Trofenik came here, got rid of some numbers and then left again. That doesn't make any sense. I'd just say that what he said didn't hold. I'm not going to prove that to him that he should go and read the research task that they did in the government, I mean, in the parliamentary research service - the same as with the size of the municipalities. At the same time, we have received comparatively how funding is managed and let Mr Trofenik not think that he alone has contacts with the Austrian municipalities and the Germans, that he knows how this funding is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Puksich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u159	Well, I would, of course, so much, but with regard to the funding of the municipalities, it doesn't matter that we're talking, because it's not the topic of today's debate, but, of course, everything is, unfortunately, about this. Thank God that the Constitutional Court has found an unconstitutional law on the financing of municipalities in 1998 on the initiative of the 31 Members which we have tabled on that adopted law. This resulted in funding up to 100% of the eligible consumption. The fact is that no one, therefore, has hoped and hopes to come to Parliament with a law on the financing of municipalities because it does not hope to prepare them, because it does not hope to prepare them, as Mr Trofenik says, that they are European laws. Of course they are, but they're the ones who pick up the spikes. A few congregations are those who, of course, would pick up peaks, those 30 billion tolars, which, of course, is quite enough for all other financial balances, and here is the problem. That is why, Mr Bevk, the difference in investment is that one municipality gets 70% and the other one 30% for investment because it sticks over the appropriate consumption so many times and so many times. And throwing over an appropriate consumption of only 30 percent means that such an environment has 100% more investment funds. Because if we say from the entire appropriate consumption that it is about 30% of the investment assets, then of course someone has twice as much. And the task of the government would be, if it were Slovenian, of course, to take care of the same common denominator. And that's what I've been talking about for the past six years, regional development. Yes, it is and, of course, demographically endangered areas, which are over 60% and, of course, with the greatest unemployment, but unfortunately, from those areas from which I come and from which Members have, or have, too few hard spines to cope. This is certainly the largest part of the coalition MPs.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I've got a replica for three debates and a replica for twelve. By the way, we have here, and don't mind me, a discussion on the subject of the congregation yesterday, today, tomorrow. How we all feel about all these congregations, who are privileged, who are deprived. This is not what this national assembly should be discussing at this time. Of course, there are very legitimate debates, but then the topic should be different. I have a number of answers to one and the other, because I happen to know these things a little bit. I think it's getting a lot easier. It is simplified when it is claimed that small municipalities are deprived and simplified when it is claimed to be privileged. It's just looking optics. It is not, of course, - and I would like to say this, and I would suggest that we move slowly to a debate on the subject, this is the establishment or non-establishment of municipalities, the proposal before us, and this debate on the law on the financing of municipalities, on the law on local self-government, on the financing of cultural and sports institutions, and I can list for a long time, and I will not, there is no direct link. It's indirect, of course. But that's not it. That is why I will save my debate on this subject, because I applied for the debate when it starts to discuss the topic on the agenda, I will discuss this subject, and now I propose that we come slowly to this debate and then ask for another item of the agenda to open up for once - because it will open up in the financing of the municipalities and in all other matters - and that then all of these things that need to be said - and many of them must be said - so let us say. In this way we will not come anywhere and we will not even touch on the basic question whether we have - or not, we have some law whereby something has to be done, and whether at this point what the government has proposed and what we have in the works is in relation to this law or not, and whether it is necessary to do so or not. That's the question. All these questions, who wants something and who is privileged and deprived, do not belong to this debate or are greatly expanding a circle that is always wider than when you throw a pebble into the water and it is simply lost somewhere and we will be able to discuss this matter for about 14 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. We're really going around in some vicious circle. Indeed, the fact is that this item of the agenda is not prepared as it should be prepared. Within three quarters of an hour, the mother’s working body processed everything, and it did not go deeper into any of the Ellaborat, which was by the initiators for the establishment of municipalities. However, I ask because in fact this debate is a single monologue, when will it be the turn of the government to answer the specific questions raised. Because if the mother's working body has not done its work in such a way that the national assembly can actually only decide, then we have to complete this debate here. So I'm actually asking when the government will get the word that we also hear the answers to the questions raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Minister has long since spoken to him, but he will be given the floor after a debate of Members and Members has been made possible. I think we only have one more replica, that's Mr Visjak, then I'd give my word to the Minister. Your assessment that your mother's working body has not done its job is not justified. The fact that the Members have not been familiar with or have not gone into the Elaborates is an insult to your colleagues and colleagues. There's also a replica of Mr. Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I have to replicate Mr. Kebrich, who isn't here because he left a few minutes ago. But even though I applied to the replica, I'll tell you. Look, the congregations are being funded according to the law passed by the National Assembly, that's a fact. And here is a completely sovereign and well-founded initiative of many local communities or groups of local communities or anyone seeing in a new community, in a new congregation more money to meet their needs. This respect is a valuable and fully reasoned initiative for all that we have on our hands today. And here to learn why such a system is, even by the coalition MP against the opposition, I think it is extremely cynical. In fact, the position asks us why such a system is still available today, but it has all the instruments available to change it, if it wants to change it, but it has not changed it, and today it is surprising to these people that they want to exercise their right under the same conditions, that is the right to stay in an environment in which they will be better off because they feel so. And we don't want to take anything else here today than just asking people in these environments, do you think you'll be better off. And I think these people have this right because the government has not changed the rules of the game at this time, and here I also fully agree with my colleague Auschwitz that it must not change them either; if, of course, we stick to some normal logic to allow people today to decide and tomorrow we will change the rules of the game. That's incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Minister, Mr Tsukjat also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Well, I checked in a lot sooner than now. Of course, as a Member, I would like to make a decision on the basis of the arguments "for" and "against". When I listen to arguments against the establishment of municipalities, I see that basically all speakers hold back two arguments: that this will be too expensive for the country and, of course, they are also concerned about how these small municipalities will survive. I highly respect their concern and their benevolent desire that these congregations do not exist, for otherwise they will not survive. Second argument. to whom those who reject small congregations are excused is the law; czech, this is contrary to the law. Well, with regard to the law and, I mean, Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, we all know that it is possible to establish small municipalities, otherwise we would not have 95 municipalities in Slovenia that have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. Even if this is contrary to the law, I wonder whether we have local legislation or this legislation for local self-government on our own, or whether it serves the interests of citizens, the interests of citizens. I think that in all these arguments "against" we are not asking enough questions about the motivations of these places to be their own congregations. You explain these motivations, and you say that it's just a desire for more supplements, for more money. However, I tell you that I have different experience that most of these large local communities have been neglected from the centre so far - neglected - and that many want to be a single congregation, without regard to the resources they will receive. You're forgetting that we shouldn't evaluate their motivations at once, but we should go into the files, into the materials they sent us. There's no talk here of these materials, of these contents, we're going straight away. The government has also gone as far as the material they have prepared may not have taken a firm stand everywhere. I think there is a very unfair attitude here towards these local communities, and this debate and this kind of attitude is unpopular to me. He's really unsympathetic. The next thing I would mention is that, of course, if we are now observing small congregations, which are eight years old or four years old -- I don't know, we notice that they have blossomed, that they live differently, that they live better. And what is the purpose of local self - government as well as that of people living better?Oh, my God! Perhaps, and you all forget, the reason is that if people live with their heart for their place, they behave differently, otherwise they are able to do something for their smaller place than in the great congregation. Of course, when we speak of these congregations, I am certainly against the national assembly saying: There must be these and these small congregations. We don't have the right to set it here. Just as I have no right to say, "You must not be a congregation." I cannot say Šentjošte, the place of the hill village, the place of Vrhnika or Horjul, which belongs to the congregation of Dobrova, but in between is the geographically larger congregation of Horjul, and we have divided two places, one is a third congregation, and now we force them to continue together in one congregation. With what right should I be "against," say, some municipality called Bizeljska? I don't know what the situation is there. How should I, on the other hand, say, be the congregation of Bizell? How do I know that? I only know that citizens have the right to make decisions where possible, because we respect the principle of subsidiarity, where a smaller community can perform duties and care for itself if it is willing to do so; and if it is willing to do so, we have no right to prevent it. That is why I am in favour of rejecting the Government's proposal and accepting the possibility that these communities have the opportunity to hold a referendum and decide on their own. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. [[Flattery in the hall is not intended and permitted.]] Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to make some clarifications, without ambition, so that I can fully respond to a very engaged and in-depth debate on this issue, which has spread to other areas, beyond what is now the subject of the debate. First, I would like to say that, with regard to the item on the agenda, the government is in a slightly different position than it is when it is acting as a candidate. In this case, the role of the proposer under the law on the procedure for the establishment of municipalities is attributed to others, which is known to the municipal councils, the councils of local communities, not least to the committee responsible for the field of local self-government. The government gives an opinion on this issue. And what's before you is a government opinion. In particular, I would like to point out that this opinion has been drawn up explicitly on the basis of professional criteria or by taking into account the principle of legality; in short, in view of whether the conditions laid down by law for the establishment of municipalities are respected. I would like to stress in particular that there has been no change in policy on this issue. Perhaps I can illustrate this with a policy or a starting point adopted by the government as a basis for the work of the professional service on this issue. The government has given such a starting point to the professional service that the definition of the creation of new municipalities must be based consistently on the legal conditions for the establishment of municipalities, both as regards the number of people and other conditions. In particular, I would like to highlight the position of the Congress of the Local and Regional Communities of the Council of Europe, which, following a visit by the expert group in Strasbourg, adopted the following recommendation on this issue. [[Quote]] : "The preferred stricter implementation of the law on local self-government, which provides for a minimum of 5,000 people to establish a new municipality, and therefore considers it better to stop establishing new municipalities in order to prevent further fragmentation." Of course, we have not taken this recommendation into account in the way that, as in some debates, we have said that we have taken a decision in general, in full, in the package. That's not true. The decision was made with regard to each individual congregation or proposal for the establishment of a congregation. That's the way it is. We have reviewed the argument in the individual file to satisfy the conditions under Article 13, which means whether the new municipality proposed meets the conditions for meeting the needs in its territory or for fulfilling other statutory tasks. You know what kind of questions this is. The Constitutional Court also held that it was the responsibility of the congregation to ensure the performance of its tasks and that Articles 13 and 13a, in general or both, should be interpreted cumulatively. Those proposals that did not satisfy any of the criteria or conditions referred to in Article 13, from primary health care, education, supply and so on, utilities, telephone, financial services, premises for the provision of activities; therefore, where there were no such conditions, such a proposal would be excluded in this professional expertise. On the question of how we argued the existence or non-existence of these conditions, let me answer that, in some cases, a concrete communication was established with the proposer, and in most cases we have obtained the views of the competent ministry and, in essence, relied on the opinion of the competent ministry: for health, education, the environment and so on. In addition, we remained part of the proposals, and those who met the conditions set out in Article 13 did not meet the requirement of 5,000 inhabitants, judging in terms of exceptionality. As you are aware, the law exceptionally allows for the establishment of a municipality which meets the conditions laid down in Article 13, even if it does not have 5,000 inhabitants. Distress is listed in the law, unfortunately very cheap or allows for broad interpretation. It's about historical reasons, it's about borderline reasons, it's about national reasons, it's about economic reasons. Here the field of interpretation can be very broad. And if there are different views and judgements, then it's possible that it's coming right at this point. How to understand the remarkable reason for limitlessness, how to understand the remarkable reason for history. There are also some explanations that are very weak, many of them with a single sentence or even a single word, the reason is marginal. However, I can tell you that if we take only a 10km belt at the border, I would cover this one-third of Slovenia and in fact this argument could be dominant for any of the reasons why these exceptions cannot be understood, interpreted in this way without any justification or justification justifying an exceptional situation. [[...]] Of course, what is the possibility of judging Members and Members of Parliament that you will make a decision on this is just a weighting of the exceptional argument in those who do not meet the conditions of the five thousand inhabitants. However, I do not think it is possible to weigh, at least as the Constitutional Court says, or to lead a proposal to set up a municipality in the event that it does not meet the condition of Article 13. In short, it's basically an assessment, an interpretation of the extraordinaryness of those below the five thousand inhabitants. I think that this is exactly what has been studied in very detail in any case and we reject the obvious in this direction that it was decided in general or in a package. It is true, and here I attach a debate that has been brought into the field of system or legislation, both the conditions for the establishment of municipalities and the financing of municipalities. Here we join the opinion and have welcomed yesterday's information from colleagues from the finance ministry, which was given here in Parliament, that the law on the financing of municipalities is already in the inter-ministerial debate. We very much miss or agree with all those estimates that it is necessary to get a law that will re-order the area of funding as soon as possible. It should also probably apply to at least Article 13a of the Local Self-Government Act, which lays down the conditions of exceptionality. We are preparing a new law on municipalities, but with the start of the process of establishing new municipalities, it was not possible in the course of the procedure to change the rules of the game - some of which you have also warned - that the proposal would be tabled under the current law, and then the law would be amended by either lifting exceptions or by another interpretation of these exceptions. However, our assessment is certainly, as well as the assessment of the experts who are working on the marriage bill on the municipalities, that this issue of economic criteria, nationality, historical and frontiers, should be more broadly explained in the new legislation, to lay down criteria for how the decision-makers on the establishment of municipalities should understand and how they should assess that the exception to the creation of a new congregation is justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u170	Mr. Secretary, I say goodbye. During this time, a delegation led by the Federal Chancellor, his Excellency, Dr Wolfgang Schüssel, joined us at the gallery and let us welcome him in the name of the National Assembly. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] I'm saying goodbye again because I was wrong. [[...]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u171	Here I'm actually concluding my view of this. I would like to say that we are also seeing faults in the legal system, and perhaps this has caused what some rightly criticized in their decisions on how to understand exceptionalness as the basis for the establishment of congregations even where there are no 5,000 inhabitants. This is what happened in previous decisions. In short, it is actually an interpretation of this and it is imperative that we reshape this issue legally. I still have to answer a very specific question, which I think was raised by my colleague Rokavec - this is the congregation of Šmartno. There are two problems or two aspects of this proposal. The first proposal concerns the number. The correct conclusion, which is stated by a fellow Member with respect to the inclusion of six additional local communities in the proposal, or even more, is that this proposal would satisfy the number of five thousand inhabitants. The problem here is essentially of a formal nature. The Government does not have the right to amend the proposal made by the applicants, nor does the Government have an authorised proposer. In short, the proposal is being corrected to complement this proposal and we can thus find that it meets the legal requirements. With regard to the second question, or perhaps even the first under Article 13, I would like to present only the information we have from the Ministry of Health - this is important for you - according to the Ministry of Health - there is also a colleague who can explain this more extensively - that the condition of primary health care would not be met in the newly created municipality, because it is sufficient only for the physical health unit and not the information we have from the Ministry of Health, but I suggest that we also listen to the Ministry's representatives. [[...]] So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Anybody want a word? The MPs, the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] Excuse me, Mr. Rokavec, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. Well, I have to say the following about this particular question of mine. First, exactly what Mr Minister has quoted, but not the inclusion of additional local communities, but the inclusion of settlements which form part of the proposal of local communities. Indeed, it is six settlements of the local community of Primskovo, which have only dropped statistically from this proposal. The problem is that the government had a map of so-called white foxes, but there was no consultation with the applicants. According to the verified data today, including these settlements, it is said that the settlements of Mišji Dol, Mulhe, Obla Gorica, Poljane near Primskov, Primsko and Razbore are considered this area, according to the statistics of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which I have acquired today, 5112 inhabitants. Secondly, what is incorrect is that a proposal for a referendum has not yet been made in this area, exactly in this area. And third, with regard to the provision of adequate health care. Dom Tisje, Black Creek, has a health clinic with a doctor, a doctor who treats doctors who is present night and day. In addition, this area has physical therapy in Šmartna and almost has a modern healthcare home at the border. So the health station is - without physical therapy Šmartno, in this area. By assessing, as is the case with the amendment, that reference area fulfils all the conditions laid down in Articles 13 and 13.a. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u175	Well, I would just mention the following, although my forerunner has already beat me up and added me up, but I would say that the Law on Health Activities provides for congregations, and since 1992, congregations that do not have a health home, and it says that if the congregation does not have a health home, it is governed by a contract with a health home in another congregation or otherwise, or a concession or something like that. This condition, of course, must be understood in accordance with health legislation. But there are also cases here where, say, the local community, which is supposed to be eliminated, counts more than 5,000 inhabitants, say 7674 inhabitants, meets all the conditions and the government has nevertheless said no. The explanation does not convince me that there is no explanation and because everywhere, exactly everywhere, the government has said no, nor in any case has it determined the appropriateness of establishing a new congregation, which is why I said that it seems to us and still seems to me personally that it was assessing politically flat-rate, in a worse sense politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. What the Minister has said towards the end of his current debate seems extremely important to me. And I'm afraid that even in this work, when we're talking about content -- what I said before, we haven't talked about, but now we're talking about the content of this agenda item -- we're forgetting some facts. That is, that the government does not establish municipalities and that Parliament does not establish municipalities. The government is proposing and Parliament is determining whether the municipality has the conditions for its establishment or not, for the time being it is decided by the people in the referendum, which is right and must be the case. You know, all these calls for a democracy of a Greek type or a Hydepark type are, of course, some story that doesn't go through here, and it's right that it doesn't work. We cannot bring this national assembly to what we are about to agree on here, either. It doesn't work like that. It never worked, and it wouldn't be right if it did. It is simply a matter of whether there is something by the rules, as it must be, and if not, it is known what it is; but if it is, it is known again about the procedure. Part of the story surrounding the establishment of municipalities - of course, I fully understand all Members of the previous and previous references who have some internal trauma, too, would have had it, in today's debate, given what happened four and eight years ago. It's understandable, it's some sort of internal tension that's hard to solve. But no matter what, we need to find out - and why am I talking about this? I am speaking because six, seven years ago, or two years ago, it is already said in the reference to this National Assembly, that such a debate should be held and that changes should be made to the matters we are talking about are wrong. However, we are discussing that it is the wrong starting point when we should decide on the end of this procedure. And here's the dilemma. And if we do the same again, now we do not accept or accept the matter concerning the new municipalities, and then for the next four years, if nothing happens, we "sleep" - to say so, in quotations - and wait, and again, when some proposals come, if they come, we have opened this debate, and in the meantime we have not changed the legislation that helps some or some no, we have done nothing. Of course, if I say that now, someone will replicate and say, "Yeah, he pleads not to discuss it, but to talk about legislation." All I'm talking about is what's supposed to be, but it's not done. Of course, guilt - we could say and quite rightly, why I didn't suggest this year or what we're here to do, something more is my fault. I want to say the following. We have a marriage that says what these congregations are supposed to be like. In my opinion, we can only talk about whether the government has really found out about this proposal, as it is, so that these congregations do not respond, or whether the government has found it wrong. And then let's say that the government has misjudged this and this matter, they meet the conditions, and it's not really what the government says they don't. This is, in my opinion, a possible way of thinking about this problem. Everything else is, of course, politicization and guidance into some stories that will not lead to the right result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Chairman. After the Minister's appearance, I think the debate is close to what a person might say is reality, not because the Minister has magical power to influence us, but because of suggestions and debates and warnings that some things may not be in the government's proposal and that they need to be corrected. In the second part, it is likely that a mother's working body will meet to decide whether or not to call for a referendum in certain environments: yes or no. Here, of course, there will be a dilemma, because one of us advocates things, as Mr Minister said, that there is confusion, how far the exceptions are to be extended, until no conditions are met. I'm answering because I'm asking those of you who say to call a referendum everywhere and everyone has the right to a referendum. What should we do when the referendums are behind us and are positively voted on? Does anyone else have the money to say, "No, even though they've decided "to," they don't have the right to the congregation." I think that we have already lived through these stories and that we should not afford such mistakes and that it is necessary to take time and consider the Government's proposals to such an extent that we come, despite all the confusion in exceptions - 13a Article, which was also the basis for what some colleagues have said, but as an exception everyone can come in, everyone has the conditions they want, and that is not the case in fact. Sure, how far away. I do not think that the exception goes to the end, to every proposal. It would be rational for a committee to meet to weigh matters and say, in addition to these, one or two cases, there is another exception to which it appears to deal with the establishment. Then there are other stories about secession and attachment, etc. I would not go into large doses of demagogies and others, because I would then produce additional replicas that no longer lead anywhere, and I think that the proposal to close the debate will be met by the committee and that there may be some other smart solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Juban, as this proposal for a committee to discuss has already been announced today as a proposal for a decision, but we must conclude the debate first. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I firmly believe that we do not need to conclude the debate. If we were smart, we'd have stopped it by morning and gone to the board, because we didn't say anything new from the break forward - nothing new. It would be wise to put this proposal to the vote and save a lot of time at that time. That's my opinion. In this debate, I'm sure I'm right. I would like to replicate the performance by Mr Minister and, in particular, my colleague Kremjar. If I understood you correctly, you said that the National Assembly did not establish congregations. Who's that? They're being set up by the National Assembly. Of course they are. We are now in a transitional procedure with a referendum, and then there is a legislative procedure and then the procedure of the newly formed municipalities with the law is closed. We will vote by pressing the button and we will establish them, whether you or I. All municipalities have so far been established by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. That there would be no misunderstanding, I mean, it was a mistake or maybe a misunderstanding. That's the first one. Second. My colleague Juban now had a very important part of the debate. Who decides who's arbitrating in exceptions? The problem is, where is the package project, there is no exception. I argue that the government also acted politically unwisely when it did not take advantage of any exceptions. You know what, life isn't black and white. I have listened very carefully to you, Mr Minister, but the fact is that the current legislation and decisions of the Constitutional Court give you a full mandate, professional and political, to come up with a proposal for exceptions. He gives you the full mandate. And who decides? Where will this debate be held? I think it is responsible for every initiative to talk about it, but first on the committee, not here - for God's sake. Whether or not they're agrums, it's hard work, but we can't escape it. We have to do this. There's no other solution than: we have to do this. And just a question that relates to some things, which was a question for my colleague Rokavac. And a serious impression that the government was only making decisions in its own cabinet. Did she invite the proposers? Did she go to the field to look? I have the impression you don't even know which places they're stealing, and I don't know where they're at. The municipalities are not only working in the cabinets of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, they need to go on the ground. And here is the difference between the previous government and the present, because the previous team has always invited people who had all morning discussions for every initiative, and then the government had a position. Communications between departments can be good, it's a typical bureaucratic approach. Communication from the municipal government, but the instigator government was weak. And this is where I make public criticism about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you. Two more replicas. First Mrs. Zupanova and then Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u183	Okay. Thank you very much. I'll take advantage. I agree with Mr Kremjar that it is necessary to ask whether the government has done wrong or not. I claim that the government has done the wrong thing, and I think the government's product is bad. That's what I think we've been telling in a different form for several hours now, but the result, I think, is that. In particular, I ask the Minister, namely, this. In most cases, the government’s view is that the future municipality does not have regulated primary health care. We have heard that this can be arranged or that the health - care contract is respected. In many cases, the health care home is at the center of the current home and the local community, namely, the benefits of the health care services of that home, or the locals have also contributed to the construction of this home in most cases. I don't think that's supposed to be a problem. Second thing, concrete communication with the proponents. You mentioned that she was, but I'm interested in what cases. And third, the judgment in terms of exceptionality - Article 13. You claim or claim for yourself that exceptionality is cheaply listed and that it allows for broad interpretation. Then I wonder how you can give an opinion if the interpretation is so wide, and you insist on such opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. My colleague Zupanova, I don't know why it's such a surprise if someone on this side asks whether the government has made any proposals or not, because we always judge the government's proposals here - always, anyway. Comrade Podobnik - this is a misunderstanding, I suppose. At this stage, the National Assembly does not establish congregations and then establish them. At this stage, it shall determine whether or not the conditions are for a referendum to be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Now there were quite a few questions in the debate, and I have recorded at least two. One is addressed to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Vrhunc, and the other is likely to the Minister of Home Affairs when it comes to this border case he mentioned. We have a case of what to say, Renče, Vogrsko, where it is 4,100, say, residents and all the other conditions. Perhaps, I don't know, before we close the debate, we will answer these questions. Maybe first of all, Mr. Secretary of State, Supreme. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. I salute the Messengers and the Messengers! See, the Minister has in particular invited me to this debate to support the views drawn up by the Government in particular with regard to health care or the provision of basic health care in the newly formed municipalities. This is where I'm supposed to answer Ambassador Rokavec. By the way, you mentioned - what did you say? - a health station in the Black Stream. Yes, according to our information - in fact, when we received these proposals, we had to clearly check the situation in these places, the local communities that are supposed to be joining the new congregations. And according to our data, there is actually an ambulance operating there - but in the home of older citizens two hours a day about, for the purposes of this home of older citizens. So it would be hard to confirm that this is a full-blown infirmary, full provision of primary health care. However, I would not like to reduce this as the only argument to decide to set up a congregation in an area. The provision of basic health care, as I understand it, is one of the arguments, and the government then decides and this proposal is based on these several arguments that have emerged. I would like to draw your attention here, as a representative of the medical department, to a factor that is more general. It's a problem with the breakdown of the medical home system. Why this has occurred is, of course, a question, but we are faced with this problem. We are faced with a wide range of basic health care institutions being organised in the newly formed municipalities. And we set ourselves for our mission to somehow restore to the health care home the role that the Incas had in the past was in every way positive. In short, to strengthen the role of healthcare at home in basic health care. And from this point of view, as one of the elements of strengthening the health care home, we have started to advocate, say, some connections between different communities, municipalities and new municipalities, or associations, or various saints, or whatever they might be called - in short, some connections in terms of effective provision of basic health care to citizens. I am pleased, by the way, that today I have also heard what I have been doing here in these debates that this is possible and that this interest could exist. In any case, however, I would like to draw attention to, say, some conflicting thinking that would be: who says that we need health homes at all, because we can privatize basic health care and so on, and then doctors individuals and individuals act, just as they think it is right and so on? No, the interest of basic health care or the provision of basic health care is in the interest of citizens. Dr. Chukkat said it very well, and I'd just like to get attached to it. In the interest of the citizens. And that interest should be in front of your eyes. Probably, but now if I expand, even in terms of other arguments that are being discussed today. Thanks, so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you. May I ask the Minister for an answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u189	Mrs Zupanov asked how, under the conditions of primary health care, or whether the contractual relationship with a health institution is sufficient. On this issue, the law is very scrupulous and is, as you probably know, in the second indent of Article 13(2): primary health care must therefore be provided and the rounding should explain what it is - a health home or a health station. In short, it would be difficult to explain the law in a different way than in such a way that one or the other must be provided. And in the direction of a consistent implementation of the law, there is only one possible interpretation in this way, as I said. In particular, I repeat what I said before, that, as far as Article 13 is concerned, there is no admissible interpretation in terms of possible exceptions or a more lenient application of these conditions, including by the position of the Constitutional Court - the municipality must be able to meet the needs and fulfil the tasks of all the indents listed there. As far as your second question is concerned - communication with the proponents. It would be difficult to identify with whom communication or consultation has been carried out, but colleagues from the professional service have assured me that at least half or more of the applicants have been established communication in the sense that it has been clarified or has also sought to consult and close the questions raised in relation to their proposal. As far as your third question is concerned. Exactly what you're saying is true. I've been there myself. The question of the interpretation of Article 13a in terms of understanding as to the extent to which the exemption applies is open. This is a flaw, a flaw in this law and a revision of this law will have to be addressed: either by excluding exceptions or by explaining how to understand these exceptions or by establishing criteria for these exceptions. Thus, you are right, the professional service that prepared this laboratory was left to set itself the criteria for this exceptionalness and the criteria are such that they dictated a decision as you know it. In any case, since exceptions were made, this exceptionality is not such as to justify the establishment of a new congregation. And this is also true for the cases that you have as an individual, you asked if I understood correctly - Dr. Cukjatja interested in the municipality of Renče, Vogrsko, where it is 4100 inhabitants and is justified by exceptionalness for historical reasons. The expert group’s assessment of the criteria set by them was that exceptionalness for historical reasons in this particular case was insufficiently justified to justify the formation of a new congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u190	We have some replicas, Mr Barovic first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Don't worry, I'll be very short. What I said as a representative of the parliamentary group today is heard all the time. However, it bothers me when we listen and judge words around health homes and the Ministry of Health, we have heard an explanation that brings us into a vicious circle. On the one hand, the Ministry of Health, which is an integral part of the government, saves and abolishes healthcare homes, on the other hand, we are pleading with the law, which stipulates what local communities or village councils must do, that they can be a congregation when they have to have this, this, this, and this. If we put ourselves in the position of the Ministry of Health, looking at the matter, as the distinguished colleague has said, is quite different from being the founder of the new congregation today. This suggests that, at last, it is likely, unfortunately, that, like the practice of this national assembly, some law should be changed again. And this is the law on the establishment of new congregations. It was also said a little earlier that this legislative body was actually the one to decide. It was evident to this national assembly in the previous term that it had lobbied, and therefore new congregations had been formed where the referendum failed and vice versa, where it had succeeded, no new congregations had been formed. Who has issued a law that provides a possible basis for local communities to make proposals for new congregations? The government. The opinion, yes or no, was given by the government because the law gives local communities the opportunity to do so. Let this state council decide. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, on what grounds? Dr. Squirrel said. I would like to see at least one financial calculation for each municipality individually means so much more money from the state budget and we will say no. I would like to see one analysis that someone went from congregation to congregation and said Geographical conditions are in fact such that, I don’t know, this part must be separate and a new congregation must be formed. [[...]] Whether this National Assembly should now, after the debate we have heard, be guided by the country of the Republic of Slovenia to see what and what conditions the proposed conditions are met by those who have proposed. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It'll be our decision. I have already said in the beginning on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group that we will say no. Of course, we, as well as you, colleagues and colleagues, will be to blame if this does not prevail, and in the next term, when everything is the same, we will listen again, "You, decide in the National Assembly". I'm sorry, I really can't decide on the basis of some opinions, some requests from local communities based on some kind of law. Let us change the law on the establishment of new municipalities, stick to certain rules or demand a thorough analysis, and then, respected colleagues and colleagues, let us decide. I'm serious. I'm stressing again. The Slovenian national party will say no. Not because of the fact that Slovenia is actually too small for 100, 200, 300 municipalities, but because I don't have, at least personally, I don't know how you guys are looking at this, I don't have anything to rely on. At 4900 or 5,000 citizens, to a health home that is or is not? Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Podobnik has the word and then Mr Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I'm just going to insist, and I'm going to discuss it when I feel like I need to come over. I think that this third attempt, the third process since we have new congregations, is the worst prepared. First of all, it's about communication. Mr. Minister said that at least half of the candidates you've met, and my criticism is at least half smaller, and I apologize if I've been too harsh before. Too bad you haven't met everyone. But I'm lowering that criticism. The issue of exceptions - this is politics, this is not an profession, because you have the whole mandate to propose an exception. It's the line of least resistance. There's no exception. And I'm pretty sure there was a mistake here. The Secretary of State may or may not have a problem with that. Since systems work in such a way that there are always exceptions, exceptions enrich systems. The system is rich when it is set aside, and there are exceptions in this country. And in these suggestions, there are excellent suggestions for good congregations. You made a big mistake here. Third topic, conditions for the establishment of municipalities. Let's be concrete. Four years ago, the Constitutional Court simply ordered the National Assembly to call for referendums for 28 municipalities because we had a similar debate as today, and we did not call for them. And, look, in the explanation that still stands, it's very clear and let's listen to what it says, let's listen: "The text of Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which lays down the conditions for the establishment of a municipality, must also be understood in the programmatic sense and not only in the sense of an absolute institutional condition. It is not to be understood, therefore, that in the area where the municipality is to be set up, all must already operate in this provision of that institution. It is important that it is possible to identify in the area the existence of individual and public needs whose satisfaction is intended for these institutions. The local community, which has not yet been established by law as a municipality, wants to become a community, must therefore demonstrate its existence by law of individual and collective needs" - needs! - "to be satisfied in the new congregation. Therefore, the law does not lay down a condition to be met by a local community that has not yet been formed, in order to require the establishment of an appropriate local institution to meet the local needs. The local community may wish to create the necessary organisational and financial conditions for the establishment of an appropriate local public service through its establishment in the new municipality. The existence of an institution, e.g. a healthcare home, must be considered a relative situation, not an absolute condition. This situation, namely the existence of an institution, depends on the economic, geographical and other conditions that define the local "market" of the relevant institution and the time-consuming distance between meeting the relevant needs. A different interpretation of Article 13 would lead to a vicious circle, since the existence of the relevant institutions is to a large extent legally conditioned by the existence of a jurisdiction as a legal person." Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is also a framework on which the government could propose and come to the National Assembly with its opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u194	Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you. Only Mr. Barovic would like to replicate. If it is not within his reach that he has nothing to do with making decisions, then I advise him to allow the referendums to be held, that he will have a very tangible and valid reason to decide whether to give new congregations or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Grochell, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u197	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I would like to complement my well-respected colleague Sponik, if we really want to be so open that we are trying today in this debate, which has such a strange range from nothing, but, I don't know, to what extent, then let's be very specific. Dr. Tsukati, as a Member, mentioned that there is also an option if there is no future municipality of health care or health care station to conclude an appropriate contract with another healthcare home. However, I do not think that the Secretary of State in the field of the Ministry of Health was consistent in that he should also mention that after the municipality exists and when it is necessary to be a healthcare home, the healthcare home must conclude a contract with the insurance company. And the insurance company will find that it has no 15,000 insured persons, and in this case these citizens of this new municipality will only have the right to primary protection. This means providing health care from 6 to 12 p.m. and from 12 p.m. to 19 p.m. Night work, duty and so on, they will say, yes, of course, only if the congregation itself covers and concludes an appropriate contract. Today we've heard so many things and so many things that I've barely stayed here, that I didn't get involved in the debate before. Mr. Rokavec, I have your third amendment here. Even in the first, in the second, you have only found that there are no seven villages in the congregation of Šmartno near Lithuania. And then please be so correct, then not here at our service, which is with the Ministry of the Interior, which has done so, but now it is her fault that they have not found that there should be seven more villages involved and that they would then meet this minimum requirement. It is a series of such matters that if this debate could possibly be drawn up for at least a day or two. Let's get to the basics. The government has given its opinion, and I also do not agree with this that the Internal Policy Committee I have here a report on the continuation of the procedure under Articles 13, 14 of the Code of Procedure. [[...]] I think he's the one who identified himself. Then the initiative, which has been given here a long time ago, let us vote, let the relevant committee be again, I would say, define and we will discuss this proposal here. I'm sorry, I had to take a few questions or something about this. If we want to explain so much and so much, probably today also about those interested in our balcony, then it is good that we are not principled, but that we are consistent in what we claim and explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Groschel. I think that the debate today was very in-depth and also very wide, which may not have been too much. But now it is expanding to areas still related to local self-government, yet no longer suitable for plenary work. And that's what we need to find out. We still have, in a row, Mr Kremjar, Mr Tsukjat, Mr Rokavec. Please, Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u199	Comrade Podobnik, the category of exceptions is subjective assessment. And that's the original sin of this problem. As soon as there is no objective criteria, the exception is subjective assessment. Where something may seem to me to be an extremely good argument, it may not seem the other way around. In this case, we have the same story. These arguments for exceptions obviously did not appear to the government to be sufficiently weighty. It's okay. This National Assembly and I are pledging to discuss and vote in this direction will serve and want to serve with counter arguments. The vote will, of course, show whether the government or the service that prepared this has rightly judged or, of course, the arguments are more substantial and will be accepted by the national assembly. There's no other way where there's an exception. Here is the basic and original sin of this legislation to allow subjective consideration of certain things. Because in that case, it's both possible and otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u201	It is in the case of health care that these conditions for the establishment of congregations are lifeless. Just a case where we don't go back to this problem again. Vrhnika municipality is relatively large, has 15,000 inhabitants and a health home. People from 10 congregations go to this health center. From 10 congregations. Also from Logatec, also from Horjul, from Borovnica and also from Ljubljana. At least 15 percent of Vrhničans meet the basic health needs in Ljubljana. The municipal boundaries, respected, have nothing to do with the gravity areas of the healthcare home. There's no authority on this. It's a matter of public health. If the congregation is small, do not worry, these people will go right to the infirmary where they have been going so far, even through three congregations. And this condition, right here, shows that this condition is completely lifeless, and I find it unfair to the inhabitants, insulting to those who want a small congregation, on such a condition to "hang out" and decide their fate. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr. Rokavec, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. Just a brief replica or an explanation to my colleague Grošlje. See, the thing is, in my debate today, I have repeatedly pointed out that in fact the government has not contacted all the initiators for the establishment of referendums for the establishment of municipalities. In this particular case, it turned out that there was no contact between representatives of the local self-government government and the representative of the initiator for the establishment of the referendum area for the establishment of the Šmartno municipality. I think that's the key issue. If this communication were to be established, which would be something logical, because the government service is to formulate well-rounded proposals. There was no communication. Therefore, there has also been a change in the amendment. Thus, if this work had been done in the way that the competent services and the committee should have done, it would probably not have taken as much debate today in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that this debate could go on indefinitely and, of course, you will have the right to continue. However, I would like to introduce you to the following options, somehow rounded these points. It has already been announced today by the President of the National Assembly, on the basis of a debate in the National Assembly, that it would make sense, on the basis of this debate, that the Committee on Internal Policy, as the parent working body, should discuss the amendments which have been tabled to these decisions. If such a procedural proposal were to be put to the vote, then the Internal Policy Committee would have to meet and take a position on these amendments. If this proposal has not been put to the vote, we, of course, have a decision, as proposed, with amendments. We will have to use here because it is a single procedure, which makes sense in Article 204, third reading, so that we will follow the points and amendments that have been tabled to individual points. It is my duty only to draw attention to the possibilities offered by the Rules of Procedure in the continuation of this debate. If I may, I would ask you whether you could move to a vote on the first procedural proposal, which would read: 'The Internal Policy Committee will address the proposed government decision, including the amendments, and take a position on them.' This would be the first such formal decision that I propose on the basis of today's debate and what has already been announced. We expect the Internal Policy Committee to take a position, identify itself to these amendments that have been tabled, because we can now debate here for a long time without drawing close to conclusions. I don't see any particular opposition to that. Does anyone want to discuss it? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u205	When you decide and if you decide on such a procedural decision to put it to a vote, before the vote, we will request a ten-minute recess on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Now no one has asked any particular questions about this. I am now making a formal proposal, which I said earlier, to the vote. I therefore propose that the Internal Policy Committee discuss the amendments tabled and be defined or taken. Mr Anderlič announced a ten-minute recess before the vote on this proposal. I'm taking a ten-minute vacation. We'll continue at 5:09.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u207	I ask that we come to a conclusion first so that we can vote on the procedural decision. Ladies and gentlemen, can we find out if there's a presence in the hall? We're detecting a presence. Let's press the quorum, please. 68 Members and Members are present. We're in the clear. That's how we can make decisions. Does Mr. Anderlich want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I made a procedural decision earlier. That's true, I repeat. We will vote that the Internal Policy Committee should be defined by the amendments tabled. If a decision were taken, this point would also be interrupted. Let's vote, please. Of the 68 present, 13 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 54.]] This means that this Decision has not been adopted. We are going to the second option, to review the amendments to the proposal to continue the procedure under Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and to determine their areas. This review of the amendments, ladies and gentlemen, you don't have it yet, but it's in reproduction. Yeah. But you do have another examination. However, these were the amendments tabled by the two groups of Members. But that's not all. Now we're going to have to be very careful because there are a lot of these amendments. I hope the material will be on the table as soon as possible. Does anyone object that we continue to do this until there is written material? I simply read the amendment and open the debate, because you have this in your hands mostly, you're just going to have to look for it in the material. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u208	I would only warn all fellow Members that such a way of working means a typical mess that we create because we do not want to be reviewed by the amendments so that we can actually decide, as it is appropriate to make a decision. Now we're gonna throw those papers over there.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u209	Yes, Mr. Rokavec, but most have made up their minds. I suggested it, and I thought we could do it that way. I don't see any objections and we're moving on with this point. We are in the amendment to point Ia, point I, i.e. Roman one, small one, point I. First of all: in the proposal, point I, point 1 is deleted. The candidates are the SDS and New Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u210	Mr Vice-President, from responsibility to the National Assembly, I propose suspension [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u211	These points?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u212	to obtain an accurate review of all the amendments tabled. [[...]] I do not recall that, in such a humiliating way, we would continue this debate. Let's have a relationship with ourselves, have a relationship with ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u213	Thank you for the procedural proposal. I think it's justified, but I have to put it to the vote, my respectable colleagues and colleagues. Mr Podobnik suggests that we stop this point until we get a review of the amendments, just as it is appropriate to discuss and decide on them. Isn't that right, Mr. Squirrel? Don't you? Then please, if you repeat your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u214	Mr Vice-President, the Rules of Procedure allow you to determine for yourself that there are no such conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you. I guess we have different opinions. Before that, I asked you if anyone objected to our doing so. Only one of the Members was of this opinion; the other was not in favour. Before, there was a vote, so please, I have decided so myself that we can proceed. Since you feel that way, I'm going to allow myself to ask you all together whether we're going to break this point, given that there's no material. Who's up for breaking this point? The reason is because there's no material. So the proposal is to end this point. Who's in? Let's vote. Of the 66 present, 23 Members and Members voted and 39 felt that the review was not necessary and that we could therefore wait or wait for it. Unfortunately, most have made this decision and I, as president, have no choice but to continue as we have just begun. So, we're at I.a. Who wants a word? Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We quickly found that the decision and the amendments did not match, so on behalf of the Group of Members, I ask for two hours of recess before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u217	What did you say?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u218	For two hours of rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-20-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u219	Two hours of rest? The Slovenian people's party's emissary group requires two hours of rest. It's 5:23. This concludes our work today and we will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m.
