ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Bogdan Barovic, Dr. Michael Brejc, Janez Cimperman, Franz Čebulj, Feri Horvat, Jelko Kacin, Leopold Kremjar from 2 p.m. on, Peter Levič, Yuri Malovra, Joseph Špindler, Jože Tanko from 4 p.m. on, Villa Trofenik and Janko Weber. We're moving to 29. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEBATE ON THE RESPONSE OF DR. TEE PETRIN'S MINISTRY'S REPRESENTATIVE QUESTION OF DR. ANDREY BAYUK IN RELATING TO THE REPRESENTATIONS OF THE MEMBER OF THE MANAGEMENT OF ELAN D. D. With regard to this item, you have received the written reply of the Minister of Economy, Dr. Tee Petrin of 28.10.2002. Dr. Andrey Bajuk is excusedly absent. He would have had a chance to speak. As a second, the secretary could speak, and she's not. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I invite Mr Ivan Kebrič, the first to be notified, on behalf of the Democratic Party of the Retired of Slovenia - who is not among us. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor to present the position of the United List of Social Democrats. On the reply of the Minister of Government to the debate - presentation of the views of the members of the groups on the response of the Minister of Economy, Dr Tee Petrin, to the question of the delegation by Dr Andrej Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you very much. I apologize to the President and also to you, colleagues and colleagues, for not immediately understanding what this is about. However, I must say that I was particularly surprised that there is neither a representative of the proposer nor a government representative from such a serious announcement. I must say that I have a big question about whether it is easy to discuss this under such conditions. Since I have the opportunity to say this debate on behalf of the parliamentary group within 15 minutes of the announced time, I will also say it on my behalf, because I would like to find out what the common atmosphere is actually. If most of us have asked a serious question to the National Assembly with a big pump for not saying anything serious, and none of us, then don't mind me, I won't say anything either. Thank you. Otherwise, I have a discussion prepared and I will read it as Miran Potrč, Member, within the 15 minutes we have announced. Is that gonna be possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Here you are in front of the pay phone, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Our Group of Members, the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, believes that the debate on such a matter as was raised at a recent meeting of the National Assembly is extremely important and we believe that the debate is fully justified and that it is the responsibility of the National Assembly, that in such cases, when we assess that there is an abuse of our existing legislation and where, of course, there are also abnormals, if I say so, it has been paid out under a treaty that is questionable - first of all it would be necessary to determine whether such a treaty is even null - that it is extremely important to try to clear these matters today. I hope that we will also continue to clear and adopt some conclusions that will help existing institutions in this country to explore the matter until this stage, so that our citizens and taxpayers will also understand what has actually happened or what has happened or what has happened legally and justly, as it should be. If we go straight from the beginning, we need to find that Elan, a parade horse of the Slovenian economy in the past, has experienced many, many different scenarios and, if I say so, possibly designed events. First of all, if we look at that Elan was really one successful Slovenian company, and then because of the events that took place during the privatisation phase, what happened was that this parade horse and this chicken that carried the golden eggs seemed to have been trying in some way to privatize or cover up all those irregularities that occurred during the company's performance. In order to cover these matters, we, of course, also had an investigative commission set up, which had discovered a number of things, but the will of the national assembly and the authorities was not such that these achievements of the investigative commission were properly presented to the public and that appropriate measures would then be taken. I'm afraid that's what happened. But as I have probably said, it was the intention of the authorities and actors involved in this process to cover up all the routes and all the financial frauds that occurred at that time in connection with Elan and Elan to send or sell to a foreign country, and then again after a while, for some reason, it is a matter of buying it back and finding that it is again in trouble and by the State, by the Slovenian Development Society, that the company can be generously supported, financed, and, of course, by means of an investment made by the State or by the contributions of Slovenian taxpayers, that it is possible to allow the company today to re-create what it used to be, or that it is close to being able to generate profit. Of course, there is a big question here, on the basis of what arguments and on the basis of what fraud, if I say so, the company has also made this profit. We know that there was a lot of bankruptcy prior to that and that 80% of the claims on the compulsory settlement account were lost by certain creditors. This profit, which appeared today, is certainly questionable and would probably be right or even misrepresented as such. This profit is certainly based on this bankruptcy and write-off of claims. In fact, it would be more fair today that this profit, which proved to be such, should in fact be returned to those creditors who were very, very damaged in the enforcement process. Of course, another type of question then arises, namely, the legality and regularity of a treaty or a signed one and all other frauds that have taken place in this regard. Our assessment is that the competent institutions should carefully investigate these things, whether they are not even these contracts, on the basis of which it has happened that some of the non-owners or employees in this company have become managers, but as an external firm, on the basis of a service, have been involved in such a high profit. Surely here is the role - for the first time, the Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration and all other supervisory institutions in this country, to examine all the documentation thoroughly and to determine whether there has been no abuse and thus illegal proceedings in the process of signing the treaty and other measures taken in this regard. In short, we will then continue to ask certain questions to the government, which is responsible for the control and also for the impact of the funds invested in this company in the past. On the basis of the answers, we will also wish or propose to draw up certain conclusions, and I hope that the State Assembly will also adopt them. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. If we allow our position to be heard, then I will give the floor to the Minister for Introduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister. Colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps another experience for our work, sometimes it is good to wait five minutes for government representatives to arrive and then begin normal work. One of the experiences in the Council of Europe is that it never begins a meeting at exactly the hour, but usually 5 minutes or 10 minutes after the hour, that's when everyone comes. Because a government representative must start on such a topic, not a parliamentary group. And before that, my colleague Potts reacted perfectly. But now I will, if you give me your word, I will not return to my bench and read, take the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that Elan has not only recovered but has somehow returned to the group of very successful companies. Not long ago we were looking for a solution to this decaying former star of the Slovenian economy. That is why I hope that we will all be able to have such solutions and such discussions today so that we do not prevent his further rise by our actions. I also, of course, expect that, if necessary, we will listen to discussions and our proposals on revitalising another Slovenian patient, such as Mure. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have carefully examined all available information on the matter that we are discussing today. We paid particular attention to yesterday's information in the Slovenian press. This is a very resounding press conference of some of the actors involved in this matter. We also asked experts in the field of corporate governance - Corporate Governorance for opinions." We have found that the approach to reward, as we have seen in Elan, is quite common in Western countries. Access is quite common, with only one important difference. And this difference is that as soon as the end of the crisis comes, there will be a revision of the contracts. If he were the owner of Mura, he would be willing to reward the one who would help the workers there to keep their jobs and not from the state budget, for example, year after year we should give money to the people there, not just for wages or development, but for bare survival. But as soon as we got rid of them, I'd act. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this is the key issue. The responsible didn't change the contract when it was time. That's something we can talk about today. Why didn't they do it? Of course, we also wonder how the owners did not review the management contracts when they were taken over. The takeover experts claim that this is one of the basics of every careful examination, every "ju diligens". As custodians, they should also check at least these basic data. Or will they allow the management team, along with the union, for example through the foundation, to gain a co-ownership stake - and this is a matter of owners. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the gesture that the managers of their prizes are committed to the education of children. Especially because we are convinced that we are spending too little money in this area in Slovenia. We also hope that this move will be an example for some other Slovenian managers, because it is the best money invested. This is also proved by the experience of others. We are also using today's debate to call on the finance minister and the ministry to ask if it provides any tax incentives for children's scholarships. We are also taking advantage of today's debate as an opportunity to ask the Minister of Economy when, if so, legal rights to participate in the profits of workers will be exercised. A few years ago, there was a law in the procedure, a law on the participation of workers in profits. And that's exactly what Elan could be like. And our old theme: Can we hope for tax incentives for the labor buy-back of businesses? If the National Assembly could make such decisions, I would make a great move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister Tea Petrin, I ask you to comment - but I would be happy if you would also address my questions under the following points: Firstly, the business of Elan under Croatian ownership was not successful; secondly, the Slovenian Development Company buys Elan; Thirdly, Slovenia makes SIT 5.2 billion for Elan out of taxpayers' money, Next time, Slovenia or SRD becomes 70% owner; Next, the SRD enters into a management contract with the former director of SRD and with four other managers Next time, in the management contract, there is a clause that gives them 50% of their profits, so this year it is theirs - I should ask them here for their approval - 1.5 billion SIT in addition to their salaries; and it makes sense to say that the $1.15 billion SIT, as far as their rewards are concerned, is more than all the other employees in Elan are paid. On the basis of the answers to these questions, I think it will be easier to discuss further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Finally, the last position, namely the New Slovenia Group of Members, will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u10	Dear colleagues, representatives of the government and others present in this Chamber! Allow me to present New Slovenia's position on the issue of Elan. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, a fellow Member of Parliament, Dr Bayuk, requested a discussion on the Elan case or more specifically, on a contract which provided senior managers with extremely high profits for the management of a company owned by a majority of the country and which provided several billion tolars for recovery purposes. We note that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not responded, as it has not so far forwarded this disputed treaty to the National Assembly, which shows the attitude towards the National Assembly and thus to the citizens. Clearly, such an act does not seem incontrovertible to her. Elan is not a new story, because we know that this former giant has been hit by leaders in cooperation with various suspicious skiers who have looked more at their own profits than at the development of the company. Their guilt was also found in the criminal court, but there was no penalty because the judge did not write the conviction in due time. What interesting coincidences. And when Elan indicated the possibility of the state reaching out to billions of dollars into this company, there were again those who would like to be judged in projects where taxpayers’ money is present. What is the dispute between transactions in contracts and profits in the Elan Group? Initially, the Slovenian Development Company invested in the Elan Group and the related company Skimar 7.6 billion Slovenian tolls of state money, with which the electorates, with the consent of the public officials, transferred assets from one company to another, converted claims, left creditors in the middle of the lease, which officials and managers then define as a successful settlement and justify a high profit which, in addition to highly controversial depreciation, is the basis for managers' awards. Since the State had made all the necessary resources available for recovery, it is clear that the financial contribution of the State had a significant impact on the final financial statement. The activity reports show that part of the debt arising from the business prior to the Slovenian purchase of 4.9 billion, the Slovenian Development Company cancelled and converted the remaining debt into newly issued shares. Furthermore, long-term liabilities have been significantly reduced due to successful forced settlement in Elan companies. At the end of March 2000, it amounted to 4.6 billion, and at the end of that year it was only 154 million. In order to cover the loss of past years and the loss of the current operation of Elan, a shareholder company, a simplified reduction of capital at the burden of existing shareholders amounting to 7.5 billion tolars was made in the enforcement process, while increasing the share capital by 5.2 billion tolars. The consolidated balance sheet between 1999 and 2001 shows that sales revenues have not changed significantly, relativising the business performance of the management team. This is the password that is used for successful operation and for the eligibility of enormous rewards for good business. The effects, the final effects of the profit were influenced by other results. Some argue, yes, because this is also the successful work of managers, how they squeeze creditors through forced settlement. The profit or loss of a business year has changed mainly for the following reasons: the State’s financial resources invested through the Slovenian Development Company and through indirect companies, the conversions of the State’s claims, the State guarantees and the enforcement procedures, which resulted in creditors being a major part of their claims. The President of the Supervisory Board, Elena, argues that the business success would not have been without the financial support of the Slovenian Development Company. Why, then, is a contract made on the basis of such parameters if the country's funding is a key factor of the demonstrated business outcome? Furthermore, it continues to be due to the successful operation of the management team which carried out the financial consolidation process through the enforcement procedures. In this case, the creditors were placed there, as they were, for the few billion tolars that now appear in Elan's balance sheet, along with the country's financial contributions, in the favourable business outcome of Elan. The company’s evasive view of the balance sheet shows that the profits are due to smaller liabilities to suppliers, to the forcible settlement and to the financing revenues of more than billions of tolars resulting from the sale of real estate and state aid. From business records, especially during the year of recovery, Elan appears to be more than a financial institution, rather than a production organisation or a production company. We want to know, personally, what will happen after this turbulent period, that is, at a time when the company will operate on the market without financial injections from the country and other instruments. Until then, all the results are relative and the management of such a company is more similar to the management of a public economy, and this should also be adapted to the award of management. The budgetary resources for the rehabilitation of Elan were actually allocated through the peripheral company for the purpose of recovery. We wonder why the country has done so, through interceptors. However, at the same time, it is also possible to bypass and damage certain operators on the market. And the benefit of damaging the creditors was to reward the management team that caused the damage to the creditors. The question is how many forced settlement procedures have been properly carried out in this case. Skimar was established by the Slovenian Development Company in 1998 as Turbo Hydro d.o.o., with an initial contribution of 2.1 million tolars, which carried out the financial restructuring and consolidation of the Elan Group, which was in the process of forcible settlement and therefore limited in its capacity to do so. At the end of March, the Hydro Assembly appointed Mr Koržet to be the director of the company, and on the same day that infamous agreement between Korže d.o.o. was concluded. and a Slovenian development company of 1.5 million German brands. In fact, at the same time that Mr Korže became Director of Skimar, the president of the assembly company, Mr Dolčar, concluded a contract of management with the company Korża, which allowed for wonderful payments of profits in addition to decent salaries of 17,000 and 14,000 marks per month. It couldn't have been otherwise. In fact, if it were signed by one company director and another company director, it could have been the same person on both sides. It is clear, therefore, that at the time when Mr Korže was directing Skimar, there was a contract of management between Skimar and Korže-Svetovanje d.o.o. This is a key fact for the suspension of the contract, in addition to other findings which would fully suspend the validity of this contract. The starting points for the signing of the management contract are met with logic, customs and sober judgment, and in particular that the profits of the management team are paid according to depreciation and profit, which appear to be due to the financial injection of the State in parallel activities under the financial reorganisation of the compulsory settlement. This leads us to a reasonable conclusion that this harmful contract was not written randomly or because of ignorance, but on purpose. In addition, it is interesting to see Korže d.o.o.’s financial statements. Ljubljana, which provided advice and management to Elan's companies. This company employs only one person. In 2001, it generated an income of 182 million 840 thousand tolars, which is extremely large for one person, especially given that the cost of working for the only employee in this company was only 1.2 million tolars per year. In comparison, the disability company, under the terms "dependent disability company", Elan IP, created a significantly lower income in 2001, 149 million as of Korzetovo, although it accounts for 49 employees, including a large proportion of the disabled. The wages of these invalids were 135 million tolars. The cost structure of Koržet's company shows a serious excess, not only in this company, but also in others in Slovenia we have this opportunity - to avoid paying taxes when the leading managers cover the costs of personal life from the company's resources. This is where the tax administration should check to see if it is accidental tax evasion. I hope that such persons do not appear even among recipients of social transfers because of the actual low personal income or wages actually shown, as the salary shown is indeed low. Such excesses also allow for the arbitrary interpretation of the company law so that the management of an economic company can be carried out by a legal person, only a legal person, without any indication of a natural person, which is our specificity. And some get the whole award for such interpretation. Tax avoidance is also made possible by the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, where the Ministry of Labour opposed the New Slovenia proposal that the conclusion of a contract of employment with itself, in the case of an enterprise with one employee, which is both owner and director, is unacceptable and null. Now it turns out we're right. Now we're hearing from the public media that these people who were on the leadership team are going to set up a foundation, a charity. It's a matter of government. Like my fellow Member, I ask again where is this transaction contract between Skimar and Korže d.o.o. We still don't have it on the table. Secondly, we would like to see an agreement on the way and conditions for the successful operation of the Elan system, because there are elements for payments from the state budget for the rehabilitation of Elan. Who designed and signed an agreement on the manner and conditions for the successful operation of the business system Elan between the Slovenian Development Society and Korže company of 1.5 million marks and on what basis did you create such amounts? Why did the Slovenian Development Company also pay the audit costs of Elan's companies for the business year, April 1999, until March 2000, and these costs did not come from a shareholder company or from Elan's companies, which would also have an impact on the business outcome? Would you be willing to help any other company in Slovenia such as you are in Elan, thereby allowing for the conclusion of such management contracts as have been paid or should have been paid in the case of Elan? Did you call for a consultation competition so that all potential advisors could run for counseling because it was a state-owned company and public funds? This could give us better bidders. How did you design the cost of consulting a society that you knew would be carried out by only one person? How did you choose companies for the purpose of restructuring, which you provided them with financial resources? This is therefore the principle of equal accessibility. Will the government check the responsibility of the individual ministry officials involved in this story about Elan? And another question: Why did the Slovenian Development Company set up a special Turbo Hydro company for business cooperation purposes, which functioned as a kind of by-pass? What was the activity of this company, which had only one employee and very few turnover in 1999? Was this merely the purpose of mediation toward Elan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. I give the floor to the Minister of Economy, Dr. Tei Petrin. Here you go. We'll ask the technical services to increase the volume on the microphones. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! Supplement to the reply to Mr Andre Bajuk's Member's question in conjunction with Elan d.d. You received it in writing. In my exposition, I will only define the essentials of this reply. That is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia respects the adopted legislation, the established standards and rules of operation of companies. This further means that it can exercise its management and other rights conferred by business shares or shares only in the manner prescribed and applicable to all member companies. In doing so, it must be particularly careful that, in relation to an economic society, it does not want to take advantage of the position it has as an executive authority to the detriment of other shareholders or shareholders. The government is only the indirect owner of Skimar d.o.o., through the SRD in liquidation, which has a 19% share in this company. The SRD, and not the government, acts as a member and exercises its rights in accordance with the provisions of the law in companies. The legal representative in this case shall be the management of the SRD or the winding-up manager. The management of this asset shall be considered as a matter of regular business and of day-to-day management of ongoing transactions managed by the management or manager on its own. The SRD’s supervisory board shall be responsible for the supervision of the business. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore affects the operation of companies owned by the SRD only indirectly through the authorities of the SRD. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a shareholder of the SRD d.d., in liquidation, at the time of signing the contract until the last circumstances arise, on the issue of the rehabilitation issue of Elana d.d., did not expose the contracts concluded, since as the owner of the company, in accordance with the company law, should not interfere with the management of the company. It follows from the above that the government does not have the legal basis to obtain the contract and to refer it to the National Assembly. We must not forget that the rehabilitation was going better than expected. According to the SRD winding-up manager, management succeeded in a short period of two and a half years in Elan d.d.’s business, in converting the company’s insolvency rate into a positive business outcome in the course of the current year, and in a situation where the company is capable of profitable business in the coming years. The return on capital ownership was 100% in two years. At that time, Elan significantly increased productivity, increased the added value of products, strengthened his distribution network abroad and successfully launched a project to rebuild his brand. He became a worthy competitor on a global scale on both basic programs, winter sports and nautical. This year, the government of the Republic of Slovenia also acquired about 15 % share in the company Skimark d.o.o. Both the SRD Supervisory Board and the KAD, together with the partners, the new financial company and Triglav, the management company, have already begun to act in accordance with their competences. The SRD Supervisory Board, in accordance with its role at its meeting on 6.11., addressed, inter alia, the issue of the management contract and adopted conclusions on the basis of which it will perform its supervisory function in accordance with the applicable legislation and regulatory standards of good governance. WHEN he and his associates had already begun negotiations to amend the management contract, in particular payments and conditions for payment to the administration. At its meeting on 21.11., the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supported the conclusions of the SRD Supervisory Board in liquidation and the activities of KAD to amend the operating contract of Elan d.d. On the basis of new information, it can be assumed that the management of the SRD or the supervisory board of the company in the last period when Elan’s business improved significantly did not work in line with the government’s expectations as a shareholder. Intentionally, reward management after used [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in the present case, the normal practice is also in other market economies, when the company is in serious crisis. [[...]] In companies in crisis, the only such formula is appropriate motivation for people who are able to do business rehabilitation. However, following the completion of the first stage of recovery, this part of the contract arrangements is usually amended and the changed circumstances are taken into account. Positive business of the company. Doing business has also improved significantly in the present case, as is said in the case of Elana d.d. If it turns out that the SRD did not respect the principle of good governance, the government will convene an extraordinary meeting of the SRD Assembly, at which it will request a detailed report from both authorities, with a view to taking appropriate action on the basis of the findings. As regards the activities of Kad in relation to Elan d.o.o.’s management contract, we estimate that there is currently no reason for the government to intervene in the role of the Assembly. When he reached an agreement with the other associates to convene the Skimar d.o.o. Assembly, on which they would finally settle their relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss MEPs and Members. First of all, Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u14	Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! First of all, I would like to make a few assumptions under which I would like to discuss the Minister's response. First of all, we're not discussing Elan. We are discussing the Minister's response to a specific question related to some of Elan's management contracts. That is also why we want Elan to continue his successful business and that no debate will be understood in any other direction. At the same time, it is right to say that the concrete conduct, the specific contracts, has consequences for different bases and assessments, and this is supposed to be the content of this debate. My second assumption is the position of the government to say in the legal and economic system. The Government shall be responsible to the National Assembly for the Policy of the State running it and for the situation in all areas under the jurisdiction of the State. It shall also be responsible for the implementation of the laws and regulations of the National Assembly and for the full functioning of the State. In companies and companies belonging to the Republic of Slovenia, the government is playing the role of founder and owner to say so. And above all, the government acts as a whole. Ministers are responsible for its work individually. I want to say that it is simply not possible, even when it comes to actions that are not directly responsible, but fall within the government's sphere of action, to completely avoid the responsibility of the government. The third assumption is the question of the responsibility of the applicants for such a agenda item and how it is prepared. Do we have the goal of opening up problems and trying to solve them? I hope so. Or we have the goal of, I would say, further sharpening problems and opening up problems, but not contributing to anything. Now for some questions and some opinions. We have been dissatisfied with the Minister's responses so far, both alone and in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. The answers were formal, I can say formal. They did not address the problem or contain the answers to these questions, whatever these answers might have been, because they could then be evaluated in a substantive way. We have not been able to assess them in substance so far, because the government has taken a stand, even though we have not had formal powers, we have not made decisions, we have not made decisions, others have made decisions. It's almost over here. Today, for the first time, we have heard from the Minister that she has demanded that the Assembly of the Slovenian Development Society be convened to determine the situation, possible responsibility and so on. For the first time in this part, this is part of the answer that can be considered, Madam Minister, as appropriate. Not quite yet, but this part is appropriate. However, I think that, of course, I would say, the health of society is such an answer if it were given a month or a month and a half ago, it might not even lead to a meeting and it would be common sense that the government is reacting faster and more appropriately, better than it is now, after a month and a half. As far as the content of the questions is concerned, in our view, I would like to draw attention to three groups of questions that we consider relevant and that we would expect in our work as government mandatory answers, and in one part, I will not say that they are mandatory, but they would be possible. The first question is the morality of such a size of profit. Not formality, morality. With regard to the United List, we believe that such an amount of earnings for a year and a half or two years, in addition to a regular salary, we understand each other, in addition to the regular salary of management, which was also not negligible, that I will not say another term, is not moral. If I simplify, a few more than 200 million per person is a large, large majority, whether it's 85 or 90 now, I don't know how much, but around here there's a number of percentages, citizens don't deserve in their working age, in 40 years. As a result, we feel that we should find some criteria in society, criteria where such conduct does not come. The government should also have a relationship, a clear attitude and say, it is not acceptable what can be done, what cannot be done, so that things do not repeat themselves in this way. The second issue concerning this part of the conduct is more complex, more difficult and is simply in the direction of whether we have tried sufficiently legal standards which, in the normal, traditionally developed market economies, have positive effects or have the same effects on us. I simplify, I do not believe that where someone on behalf of me makes calls, because I do not think that the country is the right owner or when it is, on behalf of the "right owner" decides whether this real owner would be satisfied with the decisions that have been taken in this case. I have to say I doubt it. And now the question is whether we have the wrong people set up, whether those who pose them have no opposite control over their conduct, or some feedback, of course, marriage, if not adequately defined, whether it is the incompetence of those people who are set up, or sometimes also the interests they have to make such decisions. Above all, is it not a fact that nothing happens to those who have helped make such decisions? To keep successful managers, the most influential in the economy, with the best information and so on. Is this simply normal? I think that these things should be asked slowly because I think the system is well placed, only its effects in practice, exactly in the field of economic system, from ownership, privatisation, company acquisitions, the operation of investment companies and funds and the like, not to talk about the business of savings, about the losses that people have experienced, creates some feelings when they say, yes, we don't know if this is "fine", the system is good, but there are always some problems and questions. And the last set of questions concerns the government's responsibility in this work: Can the government, as the owner, be able or unable to provide certain actions and measures that would mean a more timely assessment of the situation and response? Look, today, when we read the media, everyone says today, because we should check this contract year or year and a half to see if it's real. Because she had such hands and it would be possible and today the managers who received this payment say - we even suggested to the SRD that she do it and he didn't want to. Now the new owners are gonna be better, and they're gonna want to, and they're gonna check it out. It's incomprehensible, it's incomprehensible. I'm sure someone here has a responsibility. And that's what we need to find out. Could such a contract have been concluded? Madam Minister, I am not an economist, I do not know, but in my life I have concluded a contract. Now, it was possible that it was a conscious determination of a contract that allowed such a thing to happen. That's morally controversial. Did it work, I'd say, for a completely wrong assumption that nothing good can happen, and it doesn't matter what the contract says. It's a relatively irresponsible contract writing. Because we know that the contract can be written differently. In the case of such a profit, to simplify, 50 percent when it comes to a certain level where it becomes 50 percent unacceptable, a degressive scale is written. Absolutely nothing out of the ordinary for a contract. And anyone who can think for a year or two in this direction would think. That is why, Madam Minister, we expect you to give answers on behalf of the Government and on the appropriateness or inadequacy of the content of such a contract, on legal options for its amendment or repeal only today or in due course. In part they are given, but also your opinions on how and how to deal with anger and how to deal with it. You've already announced that. Finally, to really assess what we will do to make the rules that have been supplemented or are good to give positive effects, not that there are so many anomalies in their field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The next one was notified, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, who isn't. Then Mr. Janez Janša, he's gone. Mr. Anderlich and Kavčič have been replaced. That's how I give my word to Mr. Kavčič first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u16	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Elan is one of the most important Slovenian brands. The importance of this brand is very important in a pure economic sense, and the importance of this brand is very important also in terms of Slovenian visibility in the world. This is an element which, of course, should not be left out of sight in this discussion. And if any Slovenian government, at a time when the existence of this brand was seriously delayed, did not take an active attitude towards solving this problem, they would probably all see that its conduct was not optimal. We can therefore take the view that the very active role of the Slovenian state in solving the problem was necessary and positive, as it appears. Was she really positive? Of course, opinions on this can be shared. According to the available data, the business training of the system, which is the basis for the Elan brand, was successful. However, the question of whether the country's approach to this project has been economic in all aspects of its business is raised in a reasonable manner. It is likely that respectable colleagues from the opposition will be very keenly attacked by every attempt, although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is fully properly distanced with correct and valid explanations as to how the legal case has been set up, how it has been put in place, and how responsibility has been placed. The problem is simply such a dimension that it is meaningful and must be processed and we cannot avoid it in the national assembly and in the executive branch of power. On the other hand, on the part of fellow Members, it has already been very juicyly illustrated, which means 1.1 billion tolars. However dry and legalistic we can be, this is the amount which in some form can, of course, represent for the vast majority of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia a major moral, including motivational problem. It is therefore appropriate to give a thorough answer to these questions. Therefore, as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Privatisation and Property Transformation of Enterprises, I also added the point of Elan to discuss all the elements of this project, in conjunction with this subcommittee next week, in order to try to calm down, professionally, on the working body adequately trained for this purpose, regardless of how it might be possible to look closely at the individual parts of the responsibility or the individual periods of responsibility involved in this project. Indeed, the fact is that companies usually have to balance the three main agents of interest or power. One segment represents management, the other large segment is represented by owners representatives and the third large segment is, of course, represented by employees, unions or other employees. Of course, all of this can and can work in real life within the framework set by the State. This framework, of course, can be very dry. Economic operators can be completely left to free economic initiative and those who get into trouble get into trouble. However, the case can, of course, be stained with a higher degree of corporateism, according to the state's specific activity in the economy. With this in mind, of course, it seems to me that without State intervention this project would not be feasible. Therefore, without State intervention, in the financial and other aspects themselves, this project would not be feasible. If I correctly understand by the media the sum of the thinking of the management which is the subject of this prize, which has broken the bottom of the court, this management of this fact is also aware. One possible or partial finding is that in individual periods communication between management and individual owners representatives may have been incomplete, so to speak. It is said that certain initiatives, which might also reduce this problem under consideration, have not been addressed in a sufficiently in-depth manner. I have a feeling, personally, that it is also personally clear to people from management that the dry implementation of a contract likely to be in force in a given space and time cannot be accompanied by public approval and that, of course, it is also a subject of thought and debate, including in the National Assembly. I also agree with the assessment that this project would not be feasible without a compulsory settlement. This means that we need to be very careful when we talk about who has contributed something to solve this problem. Thus, even creditors who have lost their share of their money through forced settlement are those who are responsible for the fact that this project could have been repaired. Here is another item of a softer character, we can call it a good name, "good will" or "fond de commerciale". This is that part of Elena's asset that was built generations ahead of us. And this part, the soft part covering the market position covering the trade mark covering the technological knowledge covering the organisational knowledge in Elan, was, in a way, also given, normally, to the use of this management team which undertook the rehabilitation of this entity. And he needs to be given a reasonable role. That is why, of course, we can rightly ask ourselves - and also on the subcommittee we will look at the elements of this Treaty in a little more detail. We probably can't tell her it's not valid, it's valid. But, let's say, the question in this direction is already - if I understand correctly, if I have the right data, the base is the accumulation, not the profit, and the accumulation is a category that somehow covers profit and depreciation. That means - what? This means that even if Elan did not generate any profits at this time, it would still be a relatively large basis for the award of the accrued depreciation. And I wonder why, let's say, no other category of base was taken. These are questions of a professional nature that will be considered. For example, liquidity flow, cash flow or something, these are really those specific hard categories that best point to the success of the company at some point. Thus, we must come to a situation where we will remove any suspicion from this project and where we can say with a calm conscience, the project has been carried out successfully, in the long run, not only in this section, and has been carried out in accordance with the principle of a good master. We will therefore be working more closely, as I have already announced, on the subcommittee on ownership transformation and privatisation. And I hope that in this way we will also help this brand, its continued existence and development, without any apparent evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Podobnik, who does not exist, was next notified. I give my word to Mr. Grandchild. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! I would not repeat myself with regard to the words spoken before me by the interlocutors. But I can say that I almost fully agree with my predecessor, Mr Kavčič, in his thinking about the whole thing. But I'd touch things, like, from a local point of view. In fact, the story of Elan was harmful both to the local community and to the wider region where Elan worked. At a crucial point in time, when unemployment was on the rise, Elan made his contribution. And not just Elan as such, but that one also told that bank, which is also a story for itself. I just want to mention that this problem is very complex. Of course, now these awards would probably not be problematic if, in some context, the awards of comparable companies were paid at the end of the year. We know that this is being paid and shared by both supervisors and administrations. Of course, this is where she stabbed the amount of the prize that exceeded a billion. And, in fact, I'd like to touch this problem of what to do here now. I think the minister has already mentioned that the assembly has been convened, which is the first step. The second step is that this will be addressed by our subcommittee on the Committee on the Economy. Third, of course, what if everything is also legal and then what to do, that the matter will also be right in the final stage to those who have created all of this so far, as we have heard, and of course that we can tell taxpayers peacefully that the state has not solved some problems so that the profits are then poured into private pockets. That is why I think, as well as the entire Parliamentary Group, as well as the Youth Party, support the idea of setting up a foundation that would make this money available for the scholarship of young students, students from this area, from the whole region, talented, can also pay for the damage to their parents or for longer, due to all the problems surrounding the story of Elan and other related businesses and matters. That is why we think - we would, of course, like to ask the Minister here to consider the proposal that, if not all of the money, but at least in part, would be intended to establish a foundation that would grant gifted students and students from the environment, could also be broader than I mentioned, and that there would not be any other interests here that would, I will say, be transferred to other areas, because we know that the problem of scholarships is preening, there is no, at all, in this part of Gorenska, a company that could have managed at the pace that it was, to study as it once was. That is how we think this is a good example, so that the country can help in this way, I will say, indirectly. We know that this is almost impossible in the budget, this amount to be entered for scholarships, so here in the Youth Party we support the idea of a foundation and we will also accompany the Minister in that this foundation is indeed established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the event of public controversy in the case of a member of the board, Elan opens quite a few dilemmas that are important for our further development. In particular, we must ask ourselves the question of what kind of society we want to live in. Whether we want to live in a society where unlimited wealth is allowed to individuals and capital owners, or whether we want to live in a society where a person with good work, knowledge and creativity can ensure a good life, social elites and capital owners are responsible for the interests of the workers in the environment in which they live and society in general. There is no doubt that the prizes in the amount provided for in the contract are morally unacceptable, and we have heard much about this. Above all, compared to the earnings of other employees, I am not talking about different groups of people. There is no doubt that someone is responsible for the conclusion of this treaty at all, and regardless of their participation in its conclusion, it is objectively responsible for such cases for the appointment of the people who conclude such contracts. So the government and the economy are under the authority of the Minister. There is no doubt that there is something wrong with the whole thing, as this case also shows us that there are important groups of people in society without proper control of their work. Obviously, there is a group of people who, without personal moral and material responsibility and risks, have the possibility to be disproportionately rich through knowledge, internal information, not accessible to others, with different contracts and investments. Some say that the basis of the market economy we have found ourselves in is that, with legal possibilities, it allows such wealth and that it is necessary to agree to such a system, otherwise we will live in the past. I don't agree with that at all. This case shows that a group of people, on the basis of the large resources of the State that they have invested in the purchase of Elan, may, through forced settlement at the expense of creditors and through poor decisions by those who should do so on behalf of the State as the direct owner of Elan, be given the opportunity to make extraordinary and unacceptable profits. Now let's leave it to you whether they were paid or not. In doing so, we are also irresponsibly or reluctantly responsible in the State Assembly for this situation in the country as a legislative body. We adopt laws that make it possible or prevent it. In this case, they don't prevent. We are decisively involved in the appointment of a government that appoints various bodies and individuals to the responsible places as executive branch of power. Personally, I would like to see the debate on this issue as a contribution to a thorough assessment of our own way of developing our society in the future. If we can honestly assess [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] In view of the fact that time is running out, I would like to stress once again that we must also be aware of our responsibilities in the National Assembly and not only to seek responsibility from others, and that this opportunity, which has been pointed out by the President of the Sub-Committee, I believe that it is the right one. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I will start with the issue of course, which we discussed yesterday, the availability of public data. Here we have two things. So yesterday we argued that only those data that were specifically defined were not available to the public. However, this is about the information that the country has that citizens are entitled to. And these data are not of such a nature as to affect the business of the company. Such information as to the fact that - that is, by the company protected, we are talking about. In short, second, the position of the government. The government is responsible for the operations of state-owned enterprises and must influence through mechanisms concerning management, not political decisions or such decisions as to undermine the market order through financial instruments. That's clear. And this is our message. What's the problem with that? The method of recovery I have already mentioned is controversial through the peripheral companies and the contract is controversial. And the contract is the responsibility of the State, because it is its company and is either directly or indirectly, as it has already decided, affecting the formation of the contract. The contract was designed by its subjects. Yes, the SRD is a state-owned enterprise, a state-owned institution which, on behalf of the State, enters into a contract and manages the assets. Thus, all those who have served in this regard are responsible professionally and morally for the formation of the treaty. And such people are expected to be well-made not only by this management contract, but also by this implementation agreement, the whole of Elan. It would be very good, I have already said this in the end that the government would present and submit this agreement. What parameters were used in the recovery of Elan's business? The prize is questionable. Before me, my colleagues were talking about morality. I'd have put it another way first. The treaty is unprofessional, is incorrect and has elements of corruption. And because of all of this, she's morally indisputable. Not because of height, but because of the way in which it is formed on the basis of depreciation and disputed profit results, which was significantly influenced by the financial contribution of the State. This may already be a problem for the State to be put into remediation by state resources. I allow that it can, in accordance with the legislation, but it must be in a way that it is not disputed. Now he apologizes that the managers have performed this rehabilitation well. The key thing that has happened has happened on the basis of specific revenues. If we look at the net revenues from sales on the domestic and foreign market of a share company, see for yourself, then you can find that several transactions were concluded in the year of compulsory settlement in the foreign market. Of course, other revenues have increased. And these other revenues are interesting. These other revenues, which are key to the business result, are also the basis for evaluation and for these prizes. And they're controversial. I have already said that if this is the extent of state resources in a particular society, then we are wondering who has had a significant impact on the business outcome. We do not challenge the management team, but the management team should be rewarded in accordance with the principles that apply to public companies, because the principle of leadership is close, during such intensive rehabilitation and investment of state funds. When these arrangements expire and the company starts operating normally without these additional incentives of the country, we can start to apply the principles of awarding managers, as is the case with all market operators. That's controversial. Employees of the Slovenian Development Society are public servants. They are not servants of a market company and must be aware of their obligations. Have you ever checked when individual agreements and contracts were concluded? Is this not the least conflict of interest - which people sign, what role do they play? Now don't hold me for one day, so instead of 30.4., someone was put on 1.4. Perhaps from the formal point of view of the signing of the contract you have come out of or out of it, but the contract was in force, i.e. during the period of conflict of interest. I'm sure! That's controversial. This is an additional controversial detail that suspends this contract. You need to get deeper into this contract, my dear government representatives. You also need to take a deep look at the state funding arrangement. There are also such minor things that outside the business result there are some country grants that I have mentioned on behalf of the Group of Members. This affects the business result, of course, on the more favourable. This team is also financed from this more favourable result. You mentioned earlier, in the beginning, that the state was not to interfere. This is not the way to get involved. It must be affected in such a way that all financial flows are transparent and clean, not through "by pass" companies. Hence, creditors now rightly wonder on behalf of whom they have been harmed. Now let us leave aside our legislation on forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation, which allows for such means of forced settlement. They're asking themselves, in time for forced settlement, we got 20% of the claims. On the basis of this and state subsidies, a team has acquired a huge amount of assets that they now want to go to a charity in the market through the foundation. Yeah, it turns out that the best solution is not to go back. Then there may be a foundation, only it will have to be decided by the government in accordance with the law. It is certainly not worthy of anyone to establish it, a foundation, with the resources they have thus acquired. It will also be very necessary to look at transactions in these companies, at the possibility and impossibility of involving state and public officials in this story. These are the reasons why it is worth discussing in this House and why it is necessary that this should no longer be done and that, on the basis of the conclusions of today's session, solutions should also be reached. That's necessary! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thanks, buddy mag. It's a trifle. The word is from a colleague of Kelemin's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable, once again, in this debate today on this issue, of course, the biggest question that will certainly need to be answered in the near future is: does our rule of law actually allow all these financial frauds that have taken place in the last ten years, the twelve years of our country? Do we really have such a legal order that allows a political option that has been in power for ten years to first adopt such a legal order that makes it possible, and then does not do anything at all to ensure that, if such things are already happening, as they are happening in the case of Elan, that this would no longer happen in the future and that the existing legal order in this area would be written in a form that is transparent and acceptable for the state of Slovenia at the stage in which that country is currently in place? And in all of this, I am asking myself one question: who is generally responsible for all this state of lawlessness and legal acts in the country that allow such abuses and such financial fraud. Who's in general charge? And I can only answer myself because I know that no one else will be responsible for this as a political option, which is ten years in power and, of course, its President. Her President, who, in my opinion, is fleeing from responsibility for another political function because of the inability to control the system as such, rather than dealing with all these difficult issues and, of course, trying to provide the country with a legal order that would prevent such abuses as are taking place in this area. I say that these abuses are a system, and this is mainly because of this, not only because we have our legislation so badly written, but also because you have interpreted so terribly negatively. Even such a bad marriage, I always say, is such a bad marriage if we interpret it positively, if we work in terms of some values and we want to implement it, then a bad marriage can be good in practice. But we also have bad and good - we also have good laws, which are also good - we abuse in all living ways and the system does not allow us to insure ourselves with certain positive elements, values against these abuses and that the judicial system as such would also have instruments to secure these national interests and national interests and values. I'm also asking you now whether you've figured out in all of this whether this contract is null and void, in any way, and so on. Because my personal assessment is that such a contract cannot have legal basis. If he does, then that's what I'm talking about. That a political option allowed such negative legislation to be adopted first and then allowed it to be implemented. That's unacceptable. Unacceptable! And I'm asking you if you've found out it's worthless. Who will determine the extent to which you are or what stage you are in? But I also ask, I might ask one question. Can a person be involved in a profit if he performs his business function in an undertaking as a service? If he is not employed in the administration, if he is not a member of the administration and is not permanently employed in the administration, but only his function of management services is paid out, so to speak, on the basis of a contract which, in my opinion, would be exempted from the amount of profits as payments, but is actually a service as a cost in determining the overall success or the operation of companies. I would ask these two questions for an answer, but I could also ask for the other things that I've put as a dilemma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. My friend Brenčič, whom I don't see right now in the hall. I give you my word, Pardon. [[...]] My colleague Irma told me you have too little time to perform. Please, you have the floor. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thirty-four seconds may be a little bit, but it could be a lot. I've only called in enough to announce that if there's an extension, then I'll be performing. However, I think that these are questions which do not appear in this way at the meeting of the National Assembly. For if we discuss each salary, each contract separately, then we can expect the National Assembly to be a tribunal for the treatment of salaries, awards and similar various managers in various services, which must not be [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u27	Order! Comrade Jerovšek, when you speak, you are very unkind to me, even if I do not interrupt colleagues who disturb you. And so everyone else has the right. I suggest someone speaks. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Comrade Jerovšek! I suggest that when a person speaks, the government in the Chamber is a peace that allows him to express his position and then, in accordance with the procedure, one can object. My friend Brenčič is not here. My friend Dr. Bernick has the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament. Elan's contract and everything about this contract, all the events, would be a very interesting subject of 'key studies'. This is a learning example of how countries and citizens can be brought around. This case has all the elements of an interesting detective story, economic stories, as it has financial dimensions, management machinations, the practice of the Slovenian government, the tax dimension and legal complications and, finally, many ethical aspects. Each of these areas would be worth breaking down and drawing some conclusions, because, although time does not allow us to do so, from this debate and from the debate of my colleagues, we could draw a clear picture of the story of the wild appetites of Slovenian capitalists of the most early type of capitalism. Actors in this story are interesting guys and we already know them, we don't even have to mention them. It should also include the government, especially the Minister of Economy and the state funds. Let me start with a famous river: a cat can be plucked in many ways. This was a principle, in my opinion, that I understand the situation, the principle that the main actors acted in this shameful story. After their independence, the main players played different roles from the government’s official to the private financier, to the private manager, the managers of a company owned by the state and in the meantime something else. That's how you ask a whole bunch of questions. Some of my colleagues have already been warned. Who, in fact, is in charge of holding a finger on the pulse of our economy? Is it the government? Is this the Ministry? Are these different funds? And who decides all that. Who's finally responsible? Who is that sinful goat that someone might choose among these? Then, who was the main actor in his role in Elan - a civil servant, a privateer, an investor, nothing or all? What legal and ethical principles have been applied to this gentleman, his legal and financial advisers? How was it possible to make an enforcement settlement in the way it was made? This would certainly not have gone as well as we did elsewhere in the world. And what were the conflicts of interest? Did anyone even think about it then and now? Next time, what does Article 100 of the Civil Service Act mean? What does this mean for a man who has been moving, as I said, between the government and his private financial interests? What about purely ordinary dignity, so to speak, standards and standards of dignity, fairness and "fair play"? What about this? Much has already been said about financial machinations and forced settlement and so on and about the dismissal of workers, so I will not talk about it. However, it is very important to have before our eyes when we are talking about the reward for the work that they think has been done so brilliantly by the people who are supposed to share this prize. At the beginning, it seems that no one, not the government or those people, seemed to be in trouble with such a prize. However, when this thing began to come into the public eye, they suddenly became kind of a charity, in the sense that they set up a foundation, and this foundation was supposed to take care of the children of employees they had not thought of before. And then, of course, a charity activity would also give them something, as I understand it, and to become shareholders of the company. Very good machination, I think. How was all of this Elan's peripety managed through Slovenian tax legislation? For everyone should know that some parts of this whole machination with Elan would be illegal under the laws of other countries. If I understand the Minister correctly, she won't send a copy of the dirty contract here to the National Assembly to see her. Is this based on confidentiality of information or on business secrecy? However, how can this be business secrecy if the main thing has already been clarified to the entire Slovenian audience? And what else is there in this treaty that is such a secret? If there's something in the document that's secretly written down, then we should be even more concerned about it, and we should require even more of your documentation. Well, the story of Elan gives us a picture of manipulation, greed, the power of people with good connections right now. Let me remind you of what your Prime Minister said, clienteleism. And that's a typical case! And probably a violation of Slovenian laws, not to mention the total disregard for ethical standards, even in modern capitalism. So we have to get to the bottom of this thing. And I hope we will, because the government should want that to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bernick. I don't see my friend Rupar among us, so he has the word of his colleague Pukšič,
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister with co-workers and fellow Members. Actually, you don't know where to start with this problem. In fact, it is not a one-day fly, it is not a problem that happens accidentally in Slovenia, but it is a big problem that has been dragging for decades. Maybe I'll start at the end. At the moment it was discovered that someone would take so much money that compared to the budget of one municipality with 2,500 inhabitants, where all health care, education, social and so on, 230 million - this is the budget of one Slovenian municipality - would expect the government at that moment - according to the law on Slovenian Development Society, Article 9 states that the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Development Society, members of the Supervisory Board, appoints governments - to call on them to suspend management. In a moment. And, of course, stop them from further machining. That would be at least what a man in a legal democratic country would expect. That's not what happened if you know how our systems work. This did not happen because many times, many of these various machinations are, of course, designed for purely other things that are not even spoken of. You know that nothing happened to someone who signed a private loan for 500,000 marks without the authorities knowing. Of course I'm talking about Elan. Nothing happened. It is true: the law has changed that the crime is obsolete. That's what happened. When someone was convicted. But maybe a little later on something more about it. It is also right to look very little back into history in this story. They say that history is the mother of wisdom, and perhaps it will be devoted to someone else. In the previous mandate, the Special Parliamentary Investigation Commission dealt with this issue from April 1999 to September 2000. Elan has been from the beginning - so it was not a healthy company that would operate according to economic principles. The historical incision itself shows that it was already under compulsory administration in 1958, which, of course, led to a poor economic performance at the time. Thus, in mid-April 1990, Elan had outstanding over 335 million mark obligations on loans, unpaid interest and liabilities to suppliers. During that time, a compulsory settlement of creditors was also introduced in the Court of Justice. Remember that the then government under the leadership of Lojzet Peterlet was prepared to intervene with 30 million marks, which, of course, also represented a 51% share of the capital participation of the Slovenian state in Elan. The complainants rejected this proposal and, unfortunately, on 19 and 20 September 1990, a claim was filed before the Court of First Instance for an enforceable settlement which had failed. 30 million marks. Now 75 million marks have been placed in Elan. At this point, I ask, when will 4.5 million - as stated here in the documents - what was given as a loan, 4.15 billion dollars in loan return or return, what is the system of returning this money. For Elan himself, in 2000, when the government bought him back, the Croatians paid about 14 million marks. And if you count the stakes of these seven and a half, as non-refundable, and a $1.8 billion of $4.15 billion, that's 75 million mark. This means two and a half times more for something that is now, so who are the owners of everyone else, but in that case, of course, the thing would go completely differently. Or the sports equipment factory Elan employed 1,430 people just before bankruptcy. Tell me how many of them he's hiring today. They're talking about big numbers. 1,430 people were employed at the time. And of course, it was sold at auction to a Croatian buyer after a very controversial proceeding on 28 November for 31.8 million marks. This means the whole, and the government would give - I think - a 51% share of 30 million marks before that. So, of course, there's no logic here. But this has led to more court proceedings against Elan's leaders. Between May 1990 and January 1993, 29 criminal charges were filed. 29 criminal charges! And when we asked the judiciary for information on these criminal charges, they wrote: "The reason for stopping the proceedings is not only in the judge's delay in writing the judgment, but also in the new legislation that reduced the limitation deadlines, in this case from 10 to 6 years." Ten criminal cases are out of date. Director-General Uroš Aljančič and Finance Director Pavel Koder - by the way, Article 146 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia states, a description of the act, police who did so: "Where Paul did not know the positions, deposits for Uroš Aljančič and Sirol, his personal withdrawals and all business through black funds." These are not documents written by the President of the Commission, but documents obtained from the criminal service or from the judiciary. The only conviction that was, in fact, was for Uroša Aljančič, which, of course, did not happen then because Judge Anton Šubic, we know, had not written in more than eight months. The Commission of Inquiry, which I led at the time, tried to do something on its own in relation to such unsuccessful procedures, so the Commission adopted a decision and filed two complaints against Anton Šubic and Uroš Aljančič. They were both rejected. Do you know what it was to explain to the New City State Attorney that he refused to press charges - to come to the school district. Do you have any idea what that means? The Attorney General should, in my opinion, react at that time and, of course, move such a person to another job. All these and, of course, very specific matters were mentioned in the report of the Commission of Inquiry, which was included in the 55th extraordinary meeting of the Assembly of the State at that time, and, following established practice, the report was withdrawn from the agenda from this report at the initiative of Mr Porč. In order to withdraw the report, the United List, Liberal Democracy, DeSUS and some others voted. You know, then we should, it's urgent, talk about this, about the facts and, of course, about then, I'm sure that even such falsatories that are happening, of course, nonstop, but some come a day later, some sooner - it wouldn't happen. It wouldn't have come to that. I'm sorry. The fact is that the majority shareholder of the Slovenian Development Society - this has already been known to all of us - put the Slovenian Development Society in liquidation on 12 September 2002, the government of the Republic of Slovenia. As I mentioned earlier, the government appoints members of the Supervisory Board and accepts or adopts a restructuring programme for companies, and members of the Board appoints the SRD Supervisory Board, which clearly shows that the Director of the Slovenian Development Society is appointed by the government coalition, because otherwise he cannot be. The government's human resources affairs are led by the LDS party, of course through its people, which is also normal, and the main impact is certainly on this by Secretary-General Mirko Bandelj. This is the connection, clearly, of the LDS, the United List, with the representative and Drnovsk, the candidate for the President of the State, certainly responsible for such an operation of the SRD and thereby concluded a harmful contract with Elan’s managers. A harmful contract has been concluded because so much state-owned, tax-paying money has been earmarked for recovery, although it could have been substantially less money, but it is not. It all went through and went back 2.5 times that. All right, all right, but these people have to manage this as public servants, not with some management contracts that eventually lead to some other secret arrangements and some other financing of other matters. Korža's Urush is a close associate, and so far, his achievements, we know them, are what they are. He has shown success with his great profits and to prepare the starting points for negotiations with Croats at the nuclear plant, as far as I know, even received 13 million; I hope that the Minister will reject or confirm this information. As President of the Commission of Inquiry, I have always tried to get Elan back into Slovenian hands. I can tell you that those of us who have tried to do so have succeeded. However, the purpose of the commission of inquiry was not to give some leaders high wages; it was exclusively for jobs, to regain a world-renowned brand. We were concerned about the decent wages and employment of workers in Elan, and not that some, who are always one and the same, receive enormously high wages in this way - or this is not an enormously high salary at all, it is simply incomprehensible. This, I think, has all the signs of corruption. That's distasteful, considering how much workers pay. I'd like to find out what these workers' salaries are today in Elan. I interviewed Korjet before the commission of inquiry as former director. You know, this connection is very important. He was the director of the Slovenian Development Society. Of course, he also remained connected to this institution. In fact, we could say that Uroš Korže, as former director of the SRD, made a deal with himself somehow. However, I recall my visit to Elan in June 2000, which is apparently just after the damaging image of Elan’s SRD managers was made. When Director Rudy Finchgar gave me a hard time, let's just leave them alone so they can work. Of course he didn't mention this contract to me. Apparently, they work primarily to make these leaders as rich as possible. The deal under consideration with the SRD is still valid and these managers from Elan with a billion - 1.15 billion tolars, of course, enables them to secure an even greater amount and, of course, this way the privatisation of Elan. Okay. I don't mind, against Elan's privatisation. Yeah, but not at the expense of all the other taxpayers. What has been invested, the credits that have been invested must first be recovered by this country and invested in the next recovery of the company. That would be normal to expect. However, it is not that some individuals get rich in this way, that money is drawn from the state budget and then, of course, become sovereigns and, of course, that way is thus untouchable in this country. I suggest they pay off the damage to Les Bank's creditors with this money. Madam Minister, this has even been discussed in the Constitutional Court, which is a lot of material. And these victims of the Les Bank are justified to be part of these funds - even the proposal was the Minister that those who had up to some height, the vast majority of these were, I think, up to 6 or 7 thousand marks. Not anymore. This means that those who have loaded their change for an older period, for a period when they will be older and so on, will get it back. Of course, those who had 200 or more, some of the cases were such, but they need to be discussed and found out what was going on with them. The fact is that the treaty with such content is null and void, as it opposes the constitution, the law, in particular, the moral principle. And the fact is, Article 86 of the Bond Code. That is why, Madam Minister, I demand that the Ministry take action in this regard also through a court of law. Even through court. And I have another request, Minister: that we obtain this contract in Parliament. I would also like to see her as a Member who, with the work that she and the other members of the investigative committee have contributed safely with her work, that Elan has returned to the Slovenian hands and we certainly have the right of all taxpayers to do so. It's the taxpayer's money. At a press conference held yesterday by the leading Elan, on Wednesday, two days ago, Elan was explained to have had three coerced settlements in 2000. The creditors waived their claims against Elan, as one of the creditors, Pekarna Pecjak, Stanislav Pecjak, and rightly demanded of the Attorney General Zdenka Cerar, whether this was not the way to damage social property. See, Uroš Korže himself says in an article that the impact of profit on the business and effects of forced settlement. Business, effect of forced settlement. He forgot to say something else: direct money from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. More than enough reasons to use all the instruments you have at your disposal to make such demands, but it is over. The Minister, the damage to social property in this country unfortunately takes ten years in different ways. One, of course, is the adoption of such legislation, which then legally allows the theft of social property. That's what happened to Tam. Such a proposal to change ownership is opposed to railway undertakings. Another way is for sure to change what happened in 1994, the penal code and the law on criminal proceedings. The third way is the case of justice, the case of justice, when out of 29 lawsuits all the time and then they write it in cold blood, they pass it. And, of course, the Minister, the third way of stealing is also this, for example, a public audit report, which speaks of a political party signing a contract with SCT to pay the costs of the electoral campaign. And you know, such reports are likely to come to light sometime. Don't let anyone say, "Minister Petrin didn't react the way she had to." Let him react. That's your chance. That no one will say that Minister Petrinov will also be responsible when such reports come to fund the electoral campaign. Unfortunately, they're in the process now -- not unfortunately, but it's good that the election campaigns are under way. But unfortunately, how much money, the incomprehensible, individual candidates of Zupančič, my colleague Ivot from the previous term, when he called them, how big posters can be put on this is abnormal. [[...]] We know the law. We know how much it costs and, of course, the only answer to that is that, of course, such corruption comes to money and, of course, it also affects the outcome of the elections and so on. Minister, I will be happy to show you this audit report from the Slovenian Agency for Payment Control and Information and the Ljubljana branch, which means that SDK shows you that such a report still has a "business secret" seal. But it's about stealing money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. Before I give my word to the Minister for Response, he will have the floor of his colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The debate on a contract that allows billions of awards to managers is said to be completely legitimate and necessary about money laundering. Therefore, it is not absolutely necessary to reject the opinion that this does not belong to Parliament. I was, as I mentioned here a month ago, at the global conference of parliaments on the fight against corruption, which, as a basic way of combating corruption, mentioned this and, of course, active television monitoring of such debates in Parliament. Here we have before us the performance of Minister, Mrs Petrinova, and from her performance it is clear to me that the conduct of a group of people, as Mr Kontič said - these are well-organised groups. Extremely capable of financial engineering, which has developed technology, how through "by passports" works and so on, today's turbocapitalists are so characteristic: even companies are called "turbo" and so on and that these groups have full government coverage. I would have expected myself - and I have already proposed this on Monday when I proposed a procedural presentation of this on another date - that the Prime Minister would come to Parliament at such a point, because today I could explain to my constituents that he might be hampered by such behaviours. Indeed, it would be perfectly logical for you to come here, because there are actors, directors of the development society, signatories to these contracts, Mr Korže, Mr Rekar, who are close to the LDS. I would say that they are, of course, the slogan of the election campaign, even near the core of this party. And if they're close, and there's a lot of people around here that are close, the candidate for this party could come and explain how they're getting this coverage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u33	Mr Jerovšek, all those who are obliged to cooperate are here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u34	I'm pleading for you to come. The government's response shows that the government has not debated, it has not been involved - it is called - in these matters when billions of sums go through different channels. For a week now, we have been discussing some law sent by Minister Petrinova, which has a beautiful, noble title - the rescue of businesses in difficulties where the government is supposed to expect, I don't know, two billion. And here, through some contract, this same money flows billions, over a billion, plus that 17,000 brands for managers are nice, very nice salaries in Slovenia, and the government is not discussing it. This is about the financial transactions best described in the letter to the public, the director of Stanislav Pecjak, who writes on behalf of the group of entrepreneurs who came in and are successful entrepreneurs, to their property. She says, "Mrs. Secretary, in the case of Elan, we're literally screwed." I quote that, of course. "We are of the uniform opinion that in this case it is an ordinary theft." It's written by people who are entrepreneurs, so you won't say that we're amateurs who don't get to know each other, because everything gets better around here, it's-- Again, I quote: "We are of the same opinion that in this case it is a common theft." In these cases, that they appear through decades the same names that have developed this technology of financial engineering, I know myself. I happened to meet with Mr Koržet as director of the then Development Fund and his assistant, Igor Kušar, who is also in important positions today, exactly a decade ago, when I, as a technical director, finally managed to prevent wild privatisation, which was a good sign that the straw company would be recapitalised at the level of ten million of my company with the technology that we developed in my company. And after a great deal of suffering, we were able to keep this treaty signed. However, Mr Korje and Mr Kušar did not press charges, criminal charges against the parties to such contracts, but we were bullied by those who fought against wild privatisation in this way, successfully being bullied. To date, the development society that has already gone bankrupt and the minister has done nothing to ensure that the legitimate claims of those who have really developed those technologies have been evaluated and paid in any way. I firmly believe that Elan has always been a successful company over the last 20 years. However, the company that served for financial transmissions and served for financial transmissions was still in precisely defined pockets. If business and profit were transparently displayed, it would always be a successful company. Economic wonders do not happen overnight like they did in a year that will be the basis for billions of prizes. I have already mentioned that the Commission of Mr Pučnik has the greatest credit for remaining Elan's Slovenian company. We know that at that point in the night, "befel" came from a strong power center to the development society, come on, I don't know, 40 million marks for reverse assets so they can start working. Otherwise, I'd have landed in the same hands. Only at the time was there a time when it was necessary to work a little more transparently. However, because they had to put themselves on the plan and once again act as a Slovenian company, financial technology, financial engineering was found, and yet how to get the money back with the financial transmission. The government allows, supports and hides such a monstrosity on state property and state money. You don't feel responsible. I see that the Minister has not shown a shred of responsibility that the government would feel responsible at all; that it would be in her power, even though it was a company owned by the Fund, to say so. I am grateful to the press for putting this thing in public, and at the same time, when I know it, I have heard that there are tremendous pressures to be as little as possible in tomorrow's newspapers as possible about what's being said here. Mr Anderlich's performance is also further proof of this because he says that this should not be said here at all. And I'm in solidarity with journalists who work in emergency situations of pressure. This issue will probably require an investigative commission in the future, which will draw at least a fraction of the case, because I am firmly convinced, as my colleague has said before me, that with such generosity the government, because I think it was not without reason such generosity, but that important shares are also important, and that those rewarders can also support electoral campaigns and finance electoral campaigns. For this reason, it would be good for the Prime Minister to attend today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. We have thus exhausted a list of colleagues and colleagues who wanted to make their views known. The government will now come to a conclusion. Minister, Dr. Tea Petrin, you have the floor to respond to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The debate shows that there is actually a problem of corporate governance. That's on one side. On the other hand, the fact that the government is assigned the role is called powers and responsibilities that it does not have under law. As regards this contract-related problem, I believe that this failure to manage the company is very apparent, as the term "corporate Governor" has also been applied to us, which is actually just being built in our country. The foreign practice that we have passed on in this area is clearly useful only in part. However, examples of other market economies also show that in developed market economies so-called corporate governance is a current and unresolved problem. In this respect, I could say that the problem is likely to arise, or we could conclude that the fact that, at the time of the signing of the contract, there was little experience in Slovenia in terms of crisis management and also in the area of corporate governance, then in the area of supervision of crisis management projects, in the area of payment of business management administrations in crisis and in the area of decision-making and management of risk investments, where investments in firms in crisis could also be included, is the concept itself broader and reserved for investing in new risk projects or enterprises. It is because of this knowledge that we have already started certain activities at the Ministry of the Economy before this problem of this so-called disputed contract even arose. This would also answer Mr Podobnik's question and some who have raised the question of when we will be able to establish the participation of workers in profits and whether we can expect tax incentives for the labour buy-out of businesses. At the Ministry of the Economy, we have been systematically dealing with two issues since March to prepare the legal basis for the purchase of businesses by managers, on the one hand, and for the purchase of businesses by managers and workers, that is to say, the participation of employees in ownership and the sharing of profits of businesses. The purpose of the first regulation is to highlight a standard that is also characteristic in other countries, in order to ensure that these business buy-back procedures take place in a transparent way so as to avoid the exploitation of such internal information, and to ensure that the authorised company operates in the manner originally intended and is therefore also established. It is said that workers could participate in the division of profits in the company or in the ownership of the company. As for the participation of employees in ownership and the sharing of profits in the company, we are proposing a bill that we have already proposed as a law that is to be considered in the following year and is expected to be adopted by the end of the following year. The essence of this law is to allow for internal ownership and also to explain or modify the role of the authorised company and at the same time to link or analyse the proposal of the former law on the participation of employees in the profits of the company in 1997. Therefore, the proposal for an integrated employee ownership arrangement or an authorised company, which will allow for the voluntary and transparent creation of prior internal ownership from privatisation to long-term ownership, has made it possible to distinguish between employee purchases and management, then to link the ownership of employees with profit participation schemes, linked ownership with employees [[...]] [[the warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u37	Can you complete the thought?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u38	Well, that's the answer to this part of the question. Secondly, I must say that some of the questions have also been of such nature, that they go beyond the scope of today's debate and that only the SRD administration could respond to them in a qualified manner. That is why we will obtain answers to these questions within the framework of the Assembly called for. At the Assembly, we will address all the issues that can be raised as owner and raised during today's debate. Since Mr Puksic's 13 million issue was particularly raised, I would like to say that the contract with the head of the NEK negotiating group of 13 million has been concluded between the former Ministry of Economic Affairs and Mr Korset in the mandate of Minister Dragoj, and not in my mandate. What I wanted to say about some other questions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u39	Madam Secretary! Does anyone object to the Minister explaining any other matter very briefly? Yes, you can. Please, Madam Secretary, very briefly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u40	Good. Well, other questions. Here's the question that's been raised, it's a forced settlement. I can tell you that a forced settlement was justified. The fact is, it was confirmed and voted by creditors. It just shows that at the time, in that period, this is true in 2000, the vision of Elan was such that the creditors agreed to a 20% settlement. No one probably believed that the recovery with this team would be as successful as it was. Each creditor had the opportunity in court to protect his rights in accordance with the law on compulsory settlement and bankruptcy. Whether the contract is legally valid or not - of course the owners check it. Among them is Kad, as I have already answered. The second question was whether any other company in Slovenia received as much support as Elan. Of course, we need to answer that we know about these cases. Let me just mention them, among them is the system of Slovenian ironworks, then there is there, then there is Peko, Planika and so on, without mentioning. The problem of past recovery or restructuring was such that state aid was present in many companies. Other direct questions, as has already been said, are such that we will be able to answer them only on the basis of the answers we will receive from the Srd administration and from the Assembly called upon.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Some colleagues said earlier that they would like to continue the debate if there was some time left. This is the time, and I must point out that decisions will still have to be made. I only have one motion for a conclusion before me. This is a proposal for a decision submitted by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Comrade Anderlich, do you still want a word? There's still some time left. I also ask the rest of you who would like a brief colleague Anderlich says if there are still a few. [[...]] [[...]] Then you have the floor, so colleague Anderlič, colleague Bernik, colleague Kelemin, colleague Sok, you four, I suggest three minutes to stay here and discuss the conclusions for a while. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u42	This debate today has shown that we do not have a clear delimitation of the powers of individual bodies and institutions. I think it is right that the National Assembly be informed within its competences on the functioning of the Government and other institutions responsible for each area of action. This is the area of the operation of the Word and the management of that property, which has been transferred to the Srd within the framework of state ownership. However, it is not possible for the National Assembly to assume those responsibilities that the Supervisory Board must assume or that had to take over by the Supervisory Board of the Angry who had to be taken over by the Administration and that the National Assembly dealt with individual salaries, individual contracts and the like. This would result if we acted in such a way that all the issues that arise with regard to the management of companies managed by the Srd and through the Srd would, of course, be dealt with by the selected managers, so that the State Assembly would not carry out anything other than what it does. I am convinced that there are authorities in the country that have to verify the operation and conclude and verify also the contracts concluded and that every citizen has the opportunity and the right to file any suspicion of having a proper complaint or of having matters regulated. In a specific case and in the answer to that question, it was clear that, of course, we cannot simply say on average that someone intended to steal something, that someone had got something unjustifiable or otherwise. It is simply that this administration has taken over this company on the basis of a contract, on the basis of the decisions of the Supervisory Board of Srda, that the company has operated successfully and that managers are entitled to a prize. Whether this height is right or not, there are things that the National Assembly cannot discuss. I'm not in the mood to discuss it. However, if there is any irregularity, or if anyone thinks that it is, it should be cleared up in the context of the discussions and options that are, or within the framework of an investigative commission, or in any other way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please. Then Mr. Kelemina and Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Given that we are in time trouble, I would use this time to debate to propose the conclusions that this national assembly would adopt. From all of this, we can see that the government does not work, that it does not control things. This debate is due to the failure of the Government to comply with its obligations under the Rules of Procedure. When a colleague of Dr. Bayuk wanted answers to the questions raised, we do not get them despite repeated calls. That's why it happens to us. This is the irresponsible conduct of the government and also of the minister. To present the conclusions proposed by Nova Slovenije with a co-signed party, the Social Democratic Party. The Parliamentary Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia propose to adopt the following decisions to discuss the responses of the Minister of Economy, Dr. Tee Petrin, to Mr. Andrej Bajuk's question regarding the awards of the member of the administration, Elan d.d. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall ensure that the management contract concluded between Turbo-hydro d.o.o. is terminated by the competent authorities. and Elan d.d. and Korje d.o.o. in the part relating to the payment of the management performance awards. The remuneration paid for the performance of management under the applicable legislation may not belong to contract service providers. Second conclusion: The Ministry of Finance, the Internal Oversight Service shall, within ten days of the adoption of the decisions, supervise all business events, financial transactions by the State and companies which, in whole or in part, operate by state resources which have entered into business cooperation with Elan on any basis during the period since the purchase by Croatian owners. Third decision: The tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia in Elan companies shall immediately carry out a tax review of the correctness of the 2001 profit tax and the correctness of the accounting and payment of duties from the management contract with Korže d.o.o.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u45	Mr. Petty Officer, just let me interrupt you for a second. The proposals for decisions now coming to the table take into account the rules of procedure which refer to the debate and does not provide for final acts which the State assembly would not adopt in the form of decisions or anything else, the decisions of the State assembly cannot be discussed or decided on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u46	Dear President, I said I've used all my time to present my conclusions. Let me read them to the end and we'll talk about them. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] But this is your business then, we will not say anything, you will accept your position, in accordance with, I do not know which rules of procedure or constitution we will not vote on. [[...]] But let me take your time as part of your debate. Look, you're taking my time. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u47	I'll give you the extra time you took for the debate. You are talking about conclusions that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at this point that we have today do not speak of. It does not say that, on the basis of the debate, the National Assembly shall adopt an assessment, recommendation, decision or anything else. The Rules of Procedure say that the National Assembly shall hold a debate. If you believe that such a point may also result in acts adopted by the National Assembly, please ask the Business Commission for an explanation. Today I cannot even allow a debate on the proposals for conclusions, because I feel that the Rules of Procedure are talking about the debate, not the acts we adopt at such a point. Please take note of this and of the minute that I am giving to you, in the context of this explanation, of the debate that is the subject of today's item. This is the debate on the Minister's reply to the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u48	Madam President, I remind you of Article 237. Allow me to quote him: "The National Assembly may adopt a decision requiring the Government or individual minister to report to the National Assembly on the enforcement of laws, other regulations adopted by the National Assembly and on other measures and their powers and their effects." Thank you very much. And I continue with the proposals for conclusions in the framework of the time I have been given to discuss. Tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, in the company Korže d.o.o. carry out a comprehensive review of the correctness of the charging and payment of taxes and contributions. Fifth Decision: The Government shall forward to the National Assembly within three days of the adoption of the decisions the revised annual reports of Elan in 2001. Sixth Decision: The Government shall, within three days of the adoption of decisions in the National Assembly, forward its decisions or other legal acts adopted to regulate the fixing of the amount of wages in companies managed by the Slovenian Development Company. 7th Decision: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall provide the National Assembly with information on the activities of the Slovenian Development Society in relation to the financial and business rehabilitation of the business system Elan, which it adopted at its 147th meeting, on 17 February 2000. 8th Decision: The Slovenian Development Company shall report comprehensively on the enforcement of enforcement settlements in Elan within eight days of the adoption of the Government's decisions. Finally, the 9th Decision: The Sub-Committee on Property Change and Privatisation of the National Assembly shall, on the basis of the reports, data and information obtained in accordance with Decisions 1 and 1 shall examine the regularity of the regulation of the business relationship between the Government, the Slovenian Development Society and its companies with Elan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. One more time, Mr. Petty Officer. This item has been placed on the agenda on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, second paragraph, and speaks of the Government's response. The article you quoted, 237. The National Assembly can adopt a decision, which means that we will first adopt a decision requiring the Government to report on the implementation of laws, other regulations and so on. There's no procedural proposal. That's my decision. You can turn to the Explanation of my decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] I give it to you at the assembly meeting. If you disagree with me, please ask for an explanation by the business committee. That is the case and so is the case with the Rules of Procedure. I very much ask that we do not burden the work of the National Assembly with such debates. If you open the same assessment, Mr Jerovšek, when you talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, because you are sending me your proposal to talk about the Rules of Procedure, I cannot give you my word. If you make another procedural proposal, I'll listen to him. I don't want to make the same decision again. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u50	Madam Vice President! It is my opinion, and I'm sure you're very willing to interpret the rules of procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u52	I'm not going to make a procedural proposal. [[...]] Can I be reasonable?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u53	The other thing, not the one I've already decided on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u54	No, no, no. Just about the other thing. And don't interrupt me. But I'll explain. I have the right to insist on business provisions, although I strongly disagree with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure because it has destroyed parliamentaryism. But it is clear from today's debate and also from your implementation where the objectives of such rules of procedure have been. I demand that we vote on whether the National Assembly considers that we have a 29th item on the agenda. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. This was not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u56	It's a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u57	I have to explain. Procedural proposals under the new Rules of Procedure are matters relating to the implementation of the Rules of Procedure and the application of the Rules of Procedure. If you'll excuse me, I can read it for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u58	See, if we find that we have a 29th item on the table, then the rules of procedure will apply to agenda items.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u59	Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u60	For this reason, I ask that you put my proposal, although it may sound a little special, on the agenda, because you say that this is not an item of the agenda which does not fall under Rule 237 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Procedurally, not the one I gave the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u62	This article is perfectly correct. I'll define the proposal for a decision. In accordance with Article 237 of the Treaty, the National Assembly may, therefore, adopt a decision requiring the Government or the individual minister to report, not to read further, nor to take other measures from its powers and effects. [[...]] I propose, in accordance with Article 237, that we take a decision on these decisions and on these measures, which the Government should implement, to report to the National Assembly on these matters, which I have counted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u64	So, the proposal to report to the government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u65	Mr. Petty Officer!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u66	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u67	It is my business to make sure that we finish the point until the deadline and that I am trying to properly interpret the rules of procedure as well. Article 237 is in Chapter C: Government participation in the work of the National Assembly. I estimate that in cases where Article 237 applies to such a species, it is a single item of the agenda, which will also be included in the timetable with the reasoned material, and then the National Assembly will decide whether the Government's relationship to be opened by the individual proposer will be discussed. I do not want to discuss the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure anymore, because I think I am an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, as regards the conclusions and the item on our agenda today, on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Because we have 3 minutes left. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u68	Madam President, I'm formerly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u69	I apologize. I have an obligation to take care of order in this Chamber. And you can't all thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u70	But also for the legality of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u71	I gave the interpretation the first time and the second time. The business commission is the body that will respond to my misinterpretation that you are assessing here. Doesn't give me the rules of procedure to barant with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u72	Look, Mr. President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u74	There is no need for further interpretation of the evidentiary matters which are directly clear from the Rules of Procedure. That won't be necessary. Business rules should be applied directly because they are not ambiguous.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u75	Since we have only 2 minutes until the point is completed and there are still Mr Kelemina and Mr Sok, I ask everyone to use the minute to discuss the agenda. No. Procedural proposals, please make use of the time at 20.40. We are done with this item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Sok, a minute to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I propose that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the President extend the time for discussion on this item as far as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u77	This will be decided by the National Assembly. Mr Kelemina, I give you my word for one more minute, and the extension at 12.40 will be decided by the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u78	He's trying to stall, just to steal time. Here's what I'm gonna say. See, from all this debate, the actual and unwillingness of the National Assembly as the legislative branches of government to clear up all these illegalities and to break down the legal order in the country, simply want to "complicate" all these irregularities and at least to determine that Mr. Korže is one of the first people or Drnovškov's human number one and is trying today to do this and all these things that are going on here, this one-off financial transaction is illegal, thus getting under the carpet and putting money into some dark water. That's a fact. We all know that based on this debate today, this billion-dollar transaction will not take place in Elan in the future. But this [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] And now you're trying to choke and not let these things clear up. [[...]] That's the point of today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The time for consideration of this point has expired in the light of the notified times of the groups of Members. Mr Sok proposed that we extend the discussion, which could be extended in accordance with the Rules of Procedure if the National Assembly so decides, up to a maximum of one hour. This proposal by Mr Sok to extend the debate on this subject You can define the time, Mr Sok, you have made a proposal. [[...]] Please also specify, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the time you wish for the State assembly to decide. But it's only possible for one hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u80	I propose that we extend for half an hour that those of us who have applied may still be discussed or that the Minister may be able to answer the questions that will be raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I am supplementing the proposal, saying that the debate on agenda item 29 will be extended by thirty minutes. We are voting on this procedural proposal. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall, I think, so I'm asking for your attention. Secondly, we are voting on Mr Sok's procedural proposal to extend the time to deal with this agenda item for thirty minutes. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. The vote was 34 to 12. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Mr. Jerovšek! I very much ask that we devote these 30 minutes, which Members and Members wanted, to the debate. I will also ask, at the outset, who wants to debate that I will try to divide this time fairly among those who want to debate. Please also take into account my decision that the proposals for conclusions are not a matter of today's debate and we will not discuss and vote on them. That's how I explained the rules of procedure. The business commission can explain it differently in the future and we will work differently in the future. You've got 30 minutes at your disposal for everyone who's gonna raise your hand now, and I'm gonna try to split this time. Government representatives also have a chance in these 30 minutes. Therefore, at this moment, I ask you to raise your hands to those who would like to discuss for 30 minutes. Please, did you report to the debate? Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u82	Since I personally believe that you have violated the rules of procedure concerning Mr Drobnik's proposals, I propose that we stop this debate, that the business committee meet immediately and see whether the 29th item of the agenda is a separate item of the agenda and if it is subject to the business provisions of this Parliament, we must clear up before we go any further.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u83	Mr Jerovšek, just one more explanation. During the meeting, the President shall present the Rules of Procedure. And the session is underway. It is no longer up to the President to decide on the decision of the National Assembly. The new Rules of Procedure no longer provide for this. You can't judge my decisions during the session. Please do not stop your colleagues for a discussion. Mr Jerovšek, I'm explaining to you once again, and I'm not going to do anything again. The Rules of Procedure provide that, during the meeting, the Rules of Procedure shall be interpreted by the Presidents and, outside the meeting of the National Assembly, by the Business Commission. Thank you very much. The meeting is now under way and therefore we cannot do otherwise than in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Sok, Mr Bernik, Mr Drobnic, Government representative, Minister, spoke. Mr Jerovšek, you did not report to the debate. You're up. And Mr Jerovšek. So we have five debaters, five minutes each. First Mr Sok, then Dr Bernik, Mr Drobnic, Jerovšek and Mrs Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Madam President! Personally, I must say that I am very disappointed at the work of this Parliament, and I am convinced that this Parliament is actually a negativity of itself. Discussing a matter and not finally taking any decisions is a matter of empty work. I don't know if our citizens and citizens will understand us in a situation where thousands of workers in Slovenia earn 60,000 a month, in a situation where we have more than 100,000 unemployed, in a situation where buying Elena has contributed to an ever-increasing government debt and that the budget deficit is increasing, in a situation where pensions are lagging behind salaries and so on. Our citizens simply expect from this Parliament that things like the one we have today, when some members of the board share profits that are greater than all employees in this company have earned in one year to prevent such matters from happening. And if this House wants to prevent this, then for God's sake, it has to take some decisions in this direction. Although I listened carefully to the Minister's answers. At first, she said there was nothing to be done, that it was just business secrets. In her second reply, however, she announced that they were working on changing into future things and that such ways of saving and enriching beyond the work that had been created would no longer be possible. I don't know if this is the conclusion that the Minister of Government Drnovska, who is one of the most successful politicians that has been advertised at this time, has been leading this country for ten years, if appropriate, it has been said that for a long time it has been being prepared and nothing has been done to allow some administration to distribute 1.1 billion tolars. On the basis of the fact that it is an undertaking, that I will not repeat that the company has been rehabilitated by state resources, and that this profit actually came from the fact that the creditors have not received the settlement of what they have invested in this company in the past. Now, on the other hand, as my fellow Member, Dr. Bernik, said, those who are rich in this way are going public by setting up foundations and going to charity activities. On the Internet, let's say I printed a business, it's a public document, Korže, a consulting company d.o.o. Ljubljana. For 2001, revenues totalled 124 million, from this cost for goods, materials and services 104 million and labour costs only 1 million 200 000. That makes our legislation possible. If such entrepreneurs in this country have children in primary school, then the municipality must pay 80% of the cost of kindergarten. Mrs. Petrinova, you are in this government, which allows this to happen. I don't know what's going on between these 104 million, but I'm guessing there's probably some Mercedes and stuff. I think so. On the other hand, I'm looking at Mura, which is actually for Prekmurje, if it collapses, a disaster in the economy. There the workers earned much more than in this company Korża, a consulting company, d.o.o. Ljubljana. There comes an employee of 2 million tolars, and we know what the situation is today, Mura. It is said that in such and different ways legislation can be played in this country. No one will convince me that the Prime Minister and the ministers who create and sit in this government are not to blame. It's just that no one in this country can convince me of that. And it's not your fault that, on the other hand, in our congregation, a thousand workers earn a month's worth of 60,000 tolars. On the other hand, how does it make sense for certain people to receive such benefits? Does that make sense? Is that why we went to plebiscite in 1990 and said we wanted to have our own country? I don't think so. Today, many people are disappointed. And if this House doesn't stop it, yes, then who in this country should stop it? Therefore, because I am running out of time, Madam President, I would like you to think about it and put these conclusions to the vote. Let us entrust these conclusions to the government that it will do something in this area, but not that we will discuss ourselves today after this debate, and we will say, "The mountain is shaking and the mouse is born." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. We received a letter from the Minister dated 28.10., saying: "The Ministry of Economy is considering the possibility of obtaining an agreement on the management of Elan from the Slovenian Development Society d.d. in liquidation, which, as mentioned, has been involved in the rehabilitation of the business system, Elan." Now I am interested in where you have come to this effort and whether or not there is a government owned by the Slovenian Development Society that has the right to see such contracts and when we will get them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u88	The Ministry claims that it is not aware of this information because it did not directly participate in the rehabilitation of Elan. Did she now wonder what was going on? That's what I'm interested in, because after all, it's a state-owned state-owned company, not a public company, but a state-owned company. Did it get to know you? That's the question. When we debate in Parliament, it is a pity that the debate on a particular issue does not end with conclusions, with a vote. That's sad. This amount - 1,300 natives, we have considered, is supposed to get 200 million more in Slovenia, this is for whole foster care. There was no willingness to confirm that. Just like now, there's no willingness to clear up where a billion goes. You know, this contract, which is concluded, is also illegal from another point of view. It is illegal - prizes can only be paid to employees in the company from profit, with the calculation of taxes and contributions. It wasn't done. Such a contract is null and void. You wrote this letter 28.10. It's been a month. I wonder if, on the basis of all this one-month study, you've come up with answers that you don't actually know about in your letter. Who's gonna take care of cancelling the contracts? That's my question. Today, however, we also have the opportunity to see in the newspaper - Elan Foundation. Of course, that is also what those who have done. It's a hypocrisy of the government's management, the functioning of the state and the functioning of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I, too, am very disappointed in these desperate attempts to allow Parliament to obtain relevant answers from the government. This is, of course, a sign that the matter smells extremely bad and that if we started to clean up to catch the big fish. For this reason, there is a willingness to violate any provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u91	I remind you, Mr Jerovšek, please don't insult me. I ask you kindly to hold this debate, or I will take your word further after the second warning. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u92	You have also violated the previous Rules of Procedure on me many times, and I must tell you this. In fact, there's a bunch of elements that show an extraordinary interest in getting this thing under the rug. With all the means, the government is trying to work ignorantly, irresponsiblely, irresponsiblely, and if our government - if it does not already respect our legislation, our right - has at least a fraction of self-respect and would respect what is most natural law, which is most fundamental, then it would be asked: If all workers earn less than they share, I don't know, some individuals, is it in accordance with natural law? You don't see that in the world of capitalism anymore. This is an example of the worst vulgarist capitalism and I see the headlines: 'Anger has not heard proposals to lower the prizes'. Even when one proposed, they obviously knew something was wrong, the state institution, which was run by the government, stretched out and carried out certain things consistently. No damage, no human beings, no state property, no problems for the government. The irony is that we have a point for this item on the agenda: a proposal for a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty. 2 billion, according to the words, is supposed to come to rescue societies in difficulty, for the entire Slovenian economy, for the entire textile industry, which is gleaning because the world's situation has changed, the leather industry, footwear industry. Two billion. However, the government sent 1 billion and 15 million through the channels of financial transmission. Can we afford such a farce that we have sat four times because of this law, which will not eventually be fulfilled because another two billion will not run away? I just wish those responsible to the government wouldn't hide contracts because I know they're painful. The Slovenian public has the right to be aware of how citizens' rights are being violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that several times it was said that the answer was formalistic. He was very formalistic so that Members could see from him what the government's attitude to, say, Skimar and to this treaty is. It is obvious, I reiterate, that the debate follows if you go deeper into the response and relation of this relationship and if we stick to the fact that we actually want to have a legal state, then I reiterate that the debate points out that certain responsibilities, responsibilities that are not under law are attributed to the government. As for the repeated cry that we must make a treaty to the national assembly, I will say again that the government does not have a legal basis. We probably want to respect the law, and we don't want the state to stand, that's the real government, above the law. We know the countries where certain governments have exercised their right in themselves, and we know what has been the situation and the situation in these countries, both in terms of the economy and in terms of all social and other aspects. However, since I have said that we will also talk about the question when we first say that there is nothing we can do, we have said or the answer makes it clear that there is a supervisory council here, which, of course, must act appropriately and on the basis of information from the supervisory board to the government as a assembly, then the government can of course take action. However, because information was given to the public that the administration or that the administration was Elena d.d. I have already proposed an amendment to the treaty, from which we can see that the administration of the SRD or the supervisory board has not acted, so I have said that on the basis of this information, which we will of course check, we will convene an extraordinary assembly. This gives us the opportunity to act in the way I have complemented it today in the context of my exposition. But it's not written in a written answer because we didn't have that information at the time. However, the Supervisory Board has already begun to implement appropriate measures, as well as Kad, who is also another shareholder of this Skimar. As far as the contract is concerned. Both in my reply and in my exposé, I made it clear that negotiations on the modification of the contract are taking place and negotiations between owners - the owner is not the government, the owner is indirectly via the Srd, the Srd has 19% stake, and when at present 15% share - with other owners who are also owners of Skimar, as I have already stated, they are already negotiating for the amendment of the contract, which is not even to the end, and that they will clear up at the assembly, which is supposed to be convened in a short time. As far as canceling the contract is concerned, you asked me who could decide. The owners of the Skimar can conclude on the cancellation of the contract, not the SRD, because the SRD is not the owner of the Skimar. He's not the only owner. It is not only the Slovenian Development Company that can make a unanimous decision, or rather the government can cancel the contract, but it is up to all owners to decide. These negotiations are also ongoing. Maybe we should go back on this deal. I also said that we would ask certain questions within the Assembly. We will also familiarise ourselves with the content of the treaty and will also present it to you in the National Assembly. As far as the Director's discharge is concerned. It is said that the government could now, I don't know, take the case of an enterprise, I don't know, xy, that it wouldn't make a story out of it, and simply take a government decision at one of its meetings to resolve the director. I think it probably turns out that's not possible. If you don't mind, I'd like to answer just two more questions. So, the owners re-conclude the Director's discharge, the SRD is one of them and also the KAD, and then, of course, the resolution must be adopted in agreement with the owners, with the majority. Finally, I would just like to point out once again that the State's contribution to the SRD has increased, which was not the case in some other cases. It is also true that business is successful. The fact is that the awards administration has not yet distributed and is of course talking about the foundation, that trade unions and workers have also joined the foundation, which is also positive. Of course, it is the establishment of a foundation - and let me stress here - once again the question of owners whether the owners will agree with this foundation. Well, lastly, to conclude, let me say that the talks on the renegotiation of the Treaty have already begun before the question of the Member State, it is said, already in September. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. It's eight minutes away. Anyone else want to take advantage of those eight minutes? Anyone else besides Mr. Petty Officer? Mr. Kelemina. Every four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u96	I'm taking this opportunity to read the President of the National Assembly's magnetogram while he's in charge of the meeting. So it was: "Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Some colleagues said earlier that they would like to continue the debate if there was some time left. This is the time, and I must point out that decisions will still have to be made. We have only one proposal for a decision before us, and all Members of Parliament have a conclusion before us. This is a proposal for a decision submitted by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Comrade Anderlich, do you still want the word..." and so on. That's what happened. So much for explaining to colleagues and colleagues. That is why we have drawn conclusions, and I expect a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The moment I took the lead, I became competent to interpret the Rules of Procedure. Once again, my assessment is that today we are holding a debate on the government's response under Article 246. The reference and procedural proposal for the application of Article 237 - I have again interpreted that we are not working today on the basis of this Article, which does not provide for any decisions to be taken as a result. This is the decision-making decision of the National Assembly to require the Government to report to it on the implementation of certain laws and so on. I insist on my decision, and please ask the Business Commission whether, following the discussions, the National Assembly decides on decisions, recommendations and so on. The definition of a decision in the Rules of Procedure is also clearly set out in Article 112. So kindly please, four more minutes, on this same thing, on the other thing, Mr Sok's procedural proposal, please. Of course, you can talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u98	Well, I procedurally suggest that the leadership of the National Assembly be taken back by the President of Parliament, who sits here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. This is even less a matter of a decision by Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly at this time. Mr. Kelemina, if you'll excuse me, you've come to the debate. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much for the word, although I find that we Members are no longer deciding on anything as individuals, but that this is all already designed forward and that this rules of procedure actually allow for fraud. Not only are financial frauds taking place, but we also seem to encourage them. In short, let's just leave it. I note at the conclusion of today's debate, because it is likely to be the way you want it to be, and as you demand, that the conclusion is not actually going to be. There will be no useful, smart conclusion and lesson from today's debate, and that those Members who are simply demanding that values and the rule of law in the country be respected on such a basis as is enshrined in the Constitution and, of course, as is expected in a normal country, I call from this place, of course, if there is to be a public opinion that, because we obviously do not have this power, calls upon all those most responsible to withdraw today, and that is, Mr Janez Drnovšek, Mr Rop and Mrs Petrinova, and thus, of course, to conclude today's debate and today's stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate and also this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on aid for solving and prestructuring economic societies in difficulty - an urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill, Dr. Tea Petrin, Minister of Economy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u102	Dear Members and honourable Members! The proposed law systematically regulates the scope of state aid to companies in difficulty. The proposed legislation follows the regulation of the European Community in this field and the experience of individual European countries in granting such assistance. The proposal for a law provides that aid may be granted to an economic company which is in difficulty if it fulfils the conditions under law for the preparation of the restructuring programme. In this case, it is a short-term aid to bridge liquidity problems that can be granted in the form of a short-term loan or a subsidiary guarantee. The second purpose of granting aid is to assist in the implementation of the restructuring programme for the restoration of the long-term viability of the company. For these purposes, any type of aid provided for by the proposed law may be granted, i.e. credit, subsidy, interest rate subsidy, guarantee, capital investment and deferred tax and contribution payments. Aid under this law will only be granted to individual companies once, up to a maximum of EUR 10 million. The granting of aid under the proposed law will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Commission, appointed by the Ministry responsible for the activities of the company, which will submit a reasoned application with all the necessary documentation. In order to implement the proposed law, the 2003 budget of the Republic of Slovenia provides for a good 4 billion funds, most of which under the Ministry of Economy’s financial plan and up to 500 million in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In implementing this law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will ensure that aid is granted only to those companies to which the aid will enable long-term survival and business continuity, thereby reducing social pressure in a given area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur, Vice-President of the Economic Committee, Mr Blaž Kavčič, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u104	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague. At its 10th urgent meeting, on 21.11., 27.11., 28.11. and 29.11., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy considered the proposal for a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had addressed and submitted for adoption following an urgent procedure. We have also received the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in addition to general comments on the proposal for a law, has also made specific comments on the individual articles of the bill. We have taken into account the purpose of this law, which is primarily the rational management of the state in granting state aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty and in mitigating the social effects of restructuring. A more detailed definition of what companies are in difficulty has been given and adopted. The law defines as a company in difficulty, a company that is not in a position to use its own resources or by means of shareholders or shareholders or creditors to stop negative business movements, which would thus, without intervention, endanger the existence of a company. The precise conditions for granting State aid, followed by elements of social, regional policy, then the role of small and medium-sized companies in the economy and the criterion, are also laid down, or contribute to the preservation of the competitive structure of the market. In 2003, the Ministry of Economy has a good 3 billion tolars and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has 500 million tolars for staff restructuring. However, the law also identifies some additional resources for granting State aid. Although quite a few concerns about this law were expressed on the Committee. The considerations went largely towards expressing the need for a greater or even significantly larger volume of funds for the purpose of economic restructuring, but the view was taken that the existing budgetary frameworks allowed for the maximum financial extent or financial consequences of this law, as proposed by the Government. It was found that this law was indeed a solution for a relatively narrow segment of companies. It must be acknowledged that this instrument is not intended to resolve companies with so many difficulties that the restructuring plan is not capable of showing objectively the possibilities for establishing a normal business situation with the aid granted. On the other hand, this law is not intended for companies that are otherwise in need but have not made use of all their internal reserves and are not in sufficient difficulty to qualify for such funds. Thus, this law is rather narrowly focused, in line with the foretold purpose of this law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the individual articles of the proposal and adopted all the articles. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133, in the light of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee, a proposal for a law was prepared, including all the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. It is already time that there is no indication of debt when we hear from representatives of the government and from the chairman or vice-chairman of the committee who has submitted a report to the committee on all the substance of this law. Our Group supports this law and also those amendments adopted by the Committee by the government. We will also support these amendments in our Group of Members. We are aware that this time in Slovenia is just, I would say, too many companies or companies that are in trouble, because I do not know if we can list one that has no problems. However, there are companies that are worth solving through this law, so that the state can also help with this resolution, especially when it is detected that an undertaking has the conditions and opportunities to get out of problems, and even in the long run it can exist and works that the market has its own production programme, but it has such certain financial and short-term problems that it cannot solve them itself and that, after all, the banks do not want to help them at that time or they no longer trust them. Any such assistance will, of course, be checked on the appropriate committee to which the application will have to be addressed, to provide all the necessary information showing the state of the company in which it actually is and, therefore, whether it is appropriate to assist it in its final solution. The aid will, of course, be granted in the form of loans, subsidies, interest rate subsidies, various guarantees, as well as capital investments or in any other form. Most of this aid will, of course, need to be reimbursed, so it will be necessary to assess the ability to demonstrate whether the restructuring programme is capable of such aid in due course. Of course, it's all about money. And as the representative of the Committee on the Economy, the Vice-President, Mr Kavčič, said, the money will have to be provided in the budget. And for 2003 and 2004, certain funds are earmarked or prepared for this purpose. There will never be enough of them and no budget will ever be able to satisfy them to the extent that businesses are able to hire or ask for them. There will also need to be some optimum measure of understanding from what can be expected of the country. We will therefore support this law with amendments to the committee, which is also supported by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u108	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We believe in the Slovenian National Party that this law should be better. Although the title of the law promises certain ratings and a certain brighter future for companies in difficulty. However, a complete substantive review shows that this is not by us adopting, considering the law for the sake of law, so that the government can either boast or say to itself, because we have adopted the law. On the other hand, the National Assembly will also be able to do so. But I think this is the wrong approach. I think that if we adopt such laws, we should be substantively feasible, particularly as regards financial resources, and as regards the form of State aid to such companies. In the Slovenian National Party, we resent the law and the bill-maker in particular four matters. Firstly, the dispersion of decision-making is across different ministries. We believe that this is due to a loss of responsibility or that in the end it will not be known who is to blame for failing to fully enforce the law. Furthermore, we still estimate that too many questions are open and leave it to a sub-legislative regime, which will define individual articles once in the future. Of course, the most important criticism of this law goes to, according to our assessment, insufficient financial resources, which will result from the failure to implement this law, and will only be one of a number of those dedicated to themselves or to an annual report and to refer to this law when appropriate to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And also a very important fourth criticism by the government that the forms of state aid are too cheap and, according to our assessment, are not quality enough to solve the economic society in difficulty in the long term. In the Slovenian National Party, we have proposed three things during the course of our work on the labour market that we are assessing that this law could be brought forward and allowed to do so and, above all, to companies in difficulty to refer to this law. First of all, it is a systemic error that we should set up a fund in this country to help such companies. Without the powers to be shared among individual ministries, where, after one of the amendments, they would have an interdepartmental commission, or each minister would have his own commission to allocate these funds. Of course, the Fund's proposal was not acceptable to the government and the home labour body. Secondly, as regards the forms of aid provided for in Article 6, we have tried to reach, in our assessment, the most important aid to companies in difficulty, whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is prepared or the Ministry responsible to also write off a certain tax or contribution. It was said to interfere with our country's fiscal system. Yes, but it only leads to one, that is, that we have a fiscal system that is the force of that and exclusively, in my opinion, a robbery on one side as physical as a legal person. We must be aware that budget revenues over 90% are made up of tax revenues, which on this side also burden economic operators and a large part of these economic operators are in difficulty. On the other hand, the State does not want to be willing to release from its own hands one small part of this budget or form of tax relief. Thirdly, in Article 25, that is to say, the most substantive article that can ensure the implementation of this law is the provision of financial resources. Personally, I do not believe that the amount of money mentioned will not exceed four billion after the new amendment or after the new proposal made on the working body. I do not believe that these monetary amounts will help us in the coming period, especially if we are looking at the key activities of the transition taking place mainly now. And according to our assessment, there will be so much more at this point or there will be so many more economic operators in the future who would need such assistance. To conclude, allow - in the Slovenian National Party, of course, as far as the future is concerned, we fear that it will be much more black than it is at this point, especially in the context of the European Union's approximation. And this should be another reason why it should promote competitiveness and the existence of domestic companies, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] at least because they are established in the future European market. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you very much. With the proposed law, we will allow state aid for restructuring some companies in difficulty. In the last decade, the country has offered various forms of assistance to companies facing development problems. With them, we wanted to ensure that as many productive jobs as possible, developmental economic activities as possible, as well as assistance to individual regions where many businesses have also experienced difficulties due to the loss of markets after their independence. For some of the aid we have passed specific laws, some companies we have solved through state guarantees, others through recapitalisation, some through different programmes of individual ministries. It would be difficult to say that all the aid was successful, as some companies have recently gone bankrupt. But in the United List of Social Democrats, we are convinced that it is right that the country has been actively involved in helping those where solutions could be expected, as we value every productive job and economically viable production. For there was too much carefree behavior, ease of forgiveness of workers and abandonment of production, so that individuals as new owners could earn their profits. During this time, the conditions allowing state aid have changed, as the international organisations to which we are members or become members lay down the framework for possible aid. However, the situation in some sectors remains critical. Many companies in them are in serious developmental difficulties and need restructuring. In particular, textiles, leather, wood industry and parts of construction work stand out. Many companies remain solely because of the extremely low salaries of employees. Many companies shut down their establishments and dispose of them by disinvestment. Most of all, it is in the most economically and socially vulnerable regions of Slovenia. The State must also play an active role in the resolution of these companies With concrete decisions, the National Assembly can do much more than just critics or populism. And this law offers at least some of the possibilities. We will therefore support it in the United List of Social Democrats, although we are aware that it does not offer all the solutions we need. The Committee on the Economy also points out that the law is insufficient in view of the serious problems in many societies. In particular, it provides insufficient resources to help more companies. We also agree in the United List of Social Democrats that this is the case, so in all the budgetary debates, we have stressed that priority should be given in public finances to aid production restructuring firms, active employment policies, to foster research and development projects in the economy and to implement them in production. Due to different priorities, even some regional programmes are implemented or not implemented in poorer dynamics. Therefore, any additional assistance is welcome and necessary. This law will also help at least partial restructuring in some companies with marketable and promising programmes. Therefore and just because it no longer offers and everything, it is not possible to reject it, with all other budgetary obligations, the real scope, namely, the possible means, is limited. Together with other active policy programmes of individual ministries, we will only be able to provide additional assistance through this law to at least some companies and through them to regions in developmental difficulties. That is why, together with the amendments of the committee that improve the content of the law, we will support the law. However, we will require that aid under this law be granted under clearer conditions than with similar assistance in the past and that the use of aid resources will also be more clearly monitored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. Our Socialist Party Group notes that the proposal for a law on rescue and restructuring companies in difficulty is very good for the government, because, of course, under this law, it will try again to maneuver and all the great hopes expected by both Members, the economy and trade unions in these companies in difficulty, and it misuses these high expectations when it is best to do so. It is particularly weak for businesses, for companies in difficulty, because we estimate that this bill, as the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Mr Janez Trček, has said many times at the beginning of this law that this law will not solve problems in businesses. Mr Ferri Horvat, Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, also pointed out the inefficiency of this law at the beginning of the debate on this law when he said that this bill would be adopted in the form it was proposed, in fact, as a mere fruit. Today, when we have this bill on the table with the amendments adopted by the Committee and some additional amendments that are coming, but probably - which are improving the basic proposal itself, adopted by the Committee, the additional amendments will certainly not be adopted. And, of course, in our parliamentary group, we recognize in general that, on the basis of what is to be adopted today, this law will truly be a purely blissful thirsty. Indeed, even in the very explanation of this law, there are extremely large diametric contradictions between the individual explanations, which speak of the amount of State aid in different forms. However, the majority of these aids are in the form of the possibility of borrowing credits that are not even known how favourable, but of course very little will be the means for purely direct subsidies, which is somehow the only most effective instrument for solving those companies that are in real trouble. Unfortunately, however, this authority does not have a hearing for this and they do not care if in the next period, in 2003 and 2004, when expected in the field of the global economy, and in particular in the European economy, there are even greater recessions which will be our companies, which are already in difficulties due to the exhaustion and impossibility of creating accumulation for development, for the development of personnel, for technological updates, for equipment, in fact, we will have a lot of bankruptcy and a lot of unemployment in the next period, 2003 and 2004. However, our authorities do not respond to this, in fact they do not care, and with such miserable numbers they try to mislead the Slovenian public and Slovenian companies and trade unions in these companies in order to be at least comforted for a period of time. All now are expecting some major effects under this law, but unfortunately these effects will not be. Our Socialist Party of Slovenia Group will decide, on the basis of what will happen next when this law is passed, whether this law will be supported or not. If all the amendments in the coalition, which we are proposing further and by which we are trying to improve certain parts of this bill, are rejected, then surely our parliamentary group will not support such a disability law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I'd like to welcome everyone here. We certainly do not have much to discuss and discuss here on the plenary, not as a parliamentary group and not as individuals, because we believe that what should have happened in the adoption of this law should have been done in accordance with the new rules of procedure with each law. This marriage came about through a patient and perhaps even a painful session of the working body. This is the mission of the new Rules of Procedure, without allowing the plenary to debate for a long time; arguments, opinions and confrontations must be crystallized there. It is also good that this law has been much debated because it is one of the laws that finally interferes with the real sector and brings something positive to it. This needs to be discussed in the Slovenian Parliament and the government! The real sector is the one that will fill the budget, not empty it. In this sense, the entry into the country is just a transmission that, after all, these funds now being placed in the real sector are also back on track, and every company’s shut-down is going to be a huge outage of public finances in the state budget. That's why it's good. We believe that the law is necessary, if nothing else, to determine the rules of the game or to establish a strategy for the State's intervention into the real sector, in societies when these are in the visible, current countries. And that's right. It is also good that we have somehow accepted in Article 3, but I will not discuss here the arguments, the urgent entry of the country at this point into certain companies, whose problems we have been alerting for a year. It is also good that, in Article 25, the fifth chapter, we have somehow addressed at least the minimum amount of resources needed at this time. One thing I say is that we will have to be even more aware in the future of the fact that one part of the revenue, the purchases resulting from the property transformation of companies, also one part of the purchases of the sale of state assets must be put into the real sector for reinforcement, in order to consolidate the real sector. Only out there will the country become richer, there is no perspective in strengthening the public sector across all borders. There is only a growing perspective on improving public sector services and public sector work. That is certainly how we will support this law. We also hope that he will not experience any disastrous changes through the amendment's entry into the amended bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Young Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Igor Štemberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. We support the proposal for a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty in the Party of Young Slovenia. We support it in particular because we believe that important companies, regardless of their size, need to be helped to overcome these problems more effectively and as quickly as possible because of objective causes. Furthermore, it is important that these aids are in line with the European Community's legislative guidelines, as we need to be prepared in good time and in good time in the European Union. However, in the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we doubt that the law and the corresponding resources on the budget will, to a sufficient extent, help companies that are or will be in need of assistance. Experiences from the past have taught us that in the vast majority of cases, state aid in companies was only about putting out fires - buying social peace and, at best, delaying the inevitable collapse of businesses. This experience we have should therefore lead to which companies to help and, above all, how and to what extent. However, the most important part of the adoption of the law is the amount of the budget allocated for this purpose in the budget. In our opinion, they are definitely too low. Here we cannot go beyond the conclusion that the economy is adept at narrowing down the full budget of the economy and of the economy. But it's totally different for the economy when it gets in trouble. That's when all he does is fight three billion tolars for emergency assistance. What this will mean in practice, we can imagine. With a very large number of companies eligible for aid, only one: the resources and volume of aid will be severely reduced due to dispersion and the effects will be modest, if not even at all. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we also support the provisions of the law which enable companies that have already implemented the restructuring programmes and have somehow already recovered from the worst, and the burden of the outstanding obligations of redundancies of workers. If these provisions were not laid down in the law, this would mean that these companies had to collapse again in order to receive State aid. We believe that it is better, easier, cheaper and not least more effective if these companies are helped in a timely manner, and that this law, at least in the form adopted on the labour market, allows them to some extent. In practice, however, it can be shown that the government has written a law on the skin only to some companies, where it is not said that the aid motives will focus primarily on the actual recovery of bad business. On the question of whether to vote in favour or against the law, there is a dilemma between whether to completely prevent the aid to the economy or to give it little or less, in the hope that at least one company will be resolved by budgetary constraints. Above all, the latter led us to support the proposal of a law in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, which would not give us too much credit by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the parliamentary groups and are now moving on to a debate on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We have on the bench, we have the amendments of the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members, then in particular the amendments, which are the two amendments tabled by four members of the Group - LDS, the United List and - two members of the Group, I apologize - the LDS and the United List, and another amendment reproduces. [[...]] This is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, so this is an amendment to Article 25. That is how I think we could open the debate while the amendment is already on the table because it is an amendment to the amendment to Article 25. Since we don't have a review, I'll try to be clear enough to know what we're discussing. First, I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3. They shall be sent to the LDS Group and to the Joint List. Anybody want to talk? You want a word, Mr. Duck? Here you go. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Mr Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you. That's it. We do not oppose the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] That is why I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting! The first vote was not successful. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment of the two parliamentary groups to Article 3! We're voting! There are 50 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In order to discuss and decide, I shall give Article 5 and the amendment of the same two groups of Members to Article 5, with a technical correction to read "in the second paragraph" instead of "in the third". "In the second paragraph of paragraph 5. Articles." I'm opening a debate. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. The exact same text was drawn with the amendment of the committee which received majority support. Why did I suggest that this text be deleted? On the one hand, the purpose of the proposalr is to understand and support him, but with an assessment of the facts that have occurred in certain companies, and a whole series of influences that have conditioned that some company has gone through difficulties, I would say, this transition period of our 12 years. There were plenty of reasons - the issue of the situation on the market Many reasons were due to the non-admission of some management in companies to different times, and they still hoped that when companies got in trouble, inflation rates would be good for the loans they had rented. [[...]] [[...]] And these managements lasted too long until last year. These companies have already received some State intervention aid. It is a great shame, if perhaps certain companies, that this Mura be the leather industry, that this should be the Planika, whether it be Kors, whether the Pivka poultry, due to such a strong position in this article, could not receive some minimum financial injections that could save or stabilise their business, strengthen their business. In view of all the types of measures taken by this law, the government has more or less the possibility of arbitration; I fear that there is such a strong position - that if a company has once received State aid, that it has virtually no condition or has no right to enter into aid under this law - it will often be for objective reasons or reasons. So I'd still consider if it's really good that we're going to cement this so hard. I am of the opinion that it is better to leave it a little bit more open and that, on the basis of the real assessments of this commission, the law and the real data that will be recorded from society, it is only possible that a company that has already received some assistance, Mura, in particular, should enter for an injection if it is realistic to expect that intervention or intervention to stabilise this company. Consider, on the part of the applicants, who is really good or perhaps wise, that we will fully concrete the situation in Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, then Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you. In the Slovenian National Party to the amendment to Article 5, we will not support this because we actually think that there are enough guardians in the law itself, especially given that you have identified an exceptional number of regulations in the law, that you have identified different commissions that will meet with applications, and we find this restrictive factor completely pointless in this regard. On the other hand, the adoption of the amendment to Article 5 would mean that, in the slogans, "the patient should not go to the doctor twice". We oppose this in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The purpose of this Article, the amendment, is about the same as the purpose of the whole law. In fact, it should sound as fair to the public as possible, to bear witness as far as possible to the legitimate, good intentions of the government or to the signed parliamentary groups that are the bearers of the government. Of course, that's noble. However, since it has been found that the law is entirely as if the law does not actually have serious intentions and that everything in some particular electoral time has been placed because it had a law, as well as this article has the same role as a sedative pill for textiles, leather industries and similar industries in the pre-election period. Otherwise, I would be delighted to see two of the most important government officials so consistent. However, the fact is that the main State aid does not go according to the criteria and definitions of such or similar laws, which, as I say, play the role of pigeons on the roof at specified times. Most of the aid - which the company has already received or has not yet received, state aid - is being channelled through other instruments. In addition to what is mentioned here, loans, subsidies, interest rate subsidies, guarantees and so on, recently or at the time of this government, the best instrument for the payment of State aid is the management contract following a sample of State aid to Korže d.o.o.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u125	Mr. Jerovšek! Mr Jerovšek, please, I would like to remind you that we are talking about the amendment to Article 5 and Article 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u126	And I am talking about the nobility of the purpose of this article, this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u127	No, don't talk about it, I know the law, Mr. Jerovšek, and I can appreciate you saying other things. First warning. I ask you kindly to discuss Article 5 which is the subject of this debate. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u128	I think that I am talking about this thing - that it is trying to influence the Slovenian public with such articles, that now the government has suddenly become consistent, it will no longer be helping the new ones and the new Ironworks, because it can do so in other ways. And don't throw sand in your eyes! I agree with my colleague Brenčič that, among these, there are also companies that may have received some change once and can be saved. But if only that function has the whole law - I think it has - to play that role and then it would be better to admit it, it's pretty clear. That's why I'm going to go against this amendment myself. Indeed, the hopes for this law are high, even in the leather industry, the textile industry, and these companies have all received some minimal aid and will obviously have to be resolved with other instruments. Then I am more in favour of getting rid of it in a transparent way, even through this law, if any tolar ever comes into this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment of the two groups of Members to Article 5. Vote explanation, Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I will certainly not support this amendment, not that I want to conceptually change the purpose of the law, but because I know that this content will have bad consequences. After all, look when a company or company has received restructuring aid and has quite well placed and strengthened its business, something happens at this point because there are no capital reserves such as those of a company that operates well. However, it can be estimated that it has managed to achieve good results by this time. And now, whether we're going to intervene then against the law or it's better that the law is more open, we leave this arbitration to the government on the basis of input evidence and input real data. Just do as everyone knows, I really can't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Beumann's explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will not support this amendment for one reason, either, because I believe that this will narrow down the list of possible organisations or companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I believe that the adoption of this amendment would also be subject to narrowing down the possibility of a possible number of those who would receive such assistance. In any event, I believe that the Commission's assessment of these matters will be the one to judge who should be helped. I really can't support him either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the two groups of Members to Article 5. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 23 votes against 26. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the amendment to Article 5 has not been adopted. We are now moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 7 and the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members to this Article. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know if all the amendments we have tabled will be consistent with the kind of writing we've been given. In fact, this rules of procedure of the National Assembly are extremely disabled, and you don't really know at the moment that you're adopting this law, some text on your working body, you can't do your own writing right now. And we got a copy today on the table, and I think it's about 12 o'clock or anytime, and it's impossible to reconcile it. I'm already finding out, now I don't know if you've figured out if you've already fixed this. Article 5 already says in paragraph 3, I don't know where this third paragraph is now, on what basis - I don't know. Well, let's just leave it, I hope you understand. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u137	You didn't hear Mr. Kelemina, we fixed it. In the second paragraph [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u138	I happened to see, I'm sorry, but I also say, if my amendments aren't strictly accurate, I'd like to ask that the corrections go forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u139	Technical, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u140	With regard to the amendment to Article 7, I would add what I am also explaining, as we have said in the explanation. In fact, my opinion is that when granting State aid, we should only prescribe some lower minimum, which can be expected by the beneficiaries or those companies in difficulty, so that the amount of this aid would not be only 5% or 10%; for, I firmly believe that capital owners are no longer naive today and that they will not go into certain projects if they do not see any economic interest. We all know that the interest of capital, capital-holders in that, of course, their investments or free funds or capital, if they already have it, is to invest in more profitable investments or to find that an activity does not have a perspective, they even try to destroy it as quickly as possible in an activity - for example, some textile industry or any other - and they are not prepared to invest too much financial resources in activities that do not have sufficient effects on a short-term or medium-term period. That's a fact. In the debate on the Committee, this was a major dilemma. Otherwise, I have already proposed this amendment - it has not been adopted. We are once again proposing to consider all together whether it would not be appropriate to write down any lower limit in order to interest potential investors, owners, managers and so on in order to actually pursue such a programme. For 5%, 10%, I am firmly convinced, some state aid that is only possible in the form of some credit that is not at all convenient and so on - no one will go into such a project, especially if the matter is quite risky and critical. That's my thinking. I hope you know the business of businesses in the majority, Members, that you know the flows of capital, that you know the legality of capital, and that you will also find in this explanation something that can be improved by this proposal at least a little bit. So much for explaining this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Ducky, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you. The government opposes the proposed amendment because we believe that the amount of aid granted to businesses will depend mainly on the preparation of the restructuring programme and the solutions offered, but not on the continued provision of certain State aid to owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u144	In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the amendment because it makes sense for us to set at least the lower limit, precisely for this reason, as the Secretary of State has now said.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u146	Only the Secretary of State would reply to the Secretary of State that it is likely that the purpose of this proposal is the law or the law, when it is adopted, probably only that you will be able to trade politically again if there is something to trade with, but not that there is some real stimulation of capital owners or owners of enterprises, or management to really solve businesses in difficulty. Really! I am very disappointed and sad and all that you want because, in fact, I see that there is no willingness by the authorities to try, at least with a little entrepreneurial obedience, to make their contribution to the rescue of businesses in difficulty, because these are specific things. Do you think that companies are in trouble with some profitable horses that are worth betting on? No, please! I know these things and don't teach me alphabets or calculus because I learned it in the second grade of elementary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u148	I do not doubt the good desire of the proposer of this amendment to set a minimum. However, I think there may also be an obstacle at some point in time, because in the past I have repeatedly participated in various projects or teams, when we were doing rehabilitations for as many companies as possible, and I know what we had to anticipate there; probably today this has not changed so much. For example, if the recovery programme had foreseen that the state would have entered this programme by subsidising only the interest rate on loans and that this amounted to, what I know, 15% of the total value of the project, this amendment would now have forced it to now have 30%, that is something else. I don't know why this limit or why this threshold is. It is important that, in addition to other health care providers or, I would say, partners in a programme also enter the state with the maximum forms that we have foreseen in the law. At some point in time, any restriction could also be an obstacle. I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 11 votes against 37. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the same motions for this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 15. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 12 votes against 36. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the same motions for this Article. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 12 votes against 32. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the same motions for this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. The vote was 13 to 32. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the same motions for this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Honourable Member and Members. I am also trying to cooperate constructively in this law, despite the fact that I am the opposition and that my voice represents absolutely nothing, and that my suggestions also represent absolutely nothing because the machine works. But anyway, you're responsible for everything, as Mr. Pucko says many times, he rules, he shares, he builds, and we're just gonna have a little fun sometimes. Article 22, amendment. I asked the representatives of the government then whether they thought to put in each ministry which would share some resources, their committee which would approve and so on. And they told me yes. All the principles that we have long accepted at the level of the government and the reorganisation and simplification of procedures and controls and so on do not depend on anything. Ignorant on the entire front. What we said last night is no longer worth anything. That's not true! I don't understand that anymore. Why are you making fun of this authority or the country, the people, all of us? Why wouldn't that be the Interdepartmental Commission? Why should a new commission be established in each department in this regard? Who writes these bills, let me ask you? Who? Kids from kindergarten or who writes that? And always the same mistakes. And I have to deal with such insignificant things here. And look for words and letters and commas and so on. Absurd, in addition to the invalidity rule, which, however, is a bill of law, despite Mr Anderlic's assurance that we will now have order in this country, is anarchy that the greater cannot be based on this rules of procedure. The laws are bad, we reject them, we treat them, and we torture and waste time and hours to do it, instead of doing something smarter, we control what the authorities do and suggest how they should continue to do so that there will be no more such mistakes. If you also accept this amendment, it is not worth this national assembly. He's not worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u152	The non-acceptance of this amendment would, according to our assessment, only constitute an additional administrative obstacle and, of course, the number of procedures that will take place, those which are otherwise eligible or who will play the role. We also assess, as regards the costs of the work of the various commissions within different ministries, that this is a completely irrelevant matter. That is why we support the amendment tabled by Mr Kelemina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I will support this amendment for a simple reason that we do not have cases, the last such is the example of Nafta-Lendava, from this year, where from the preparation or adoption of the budget for 2003 until the preparation of the draft amending budget, an item simply disappeared to address the issue of the rehabilitation of oil wells in this company, because there was nothing to be determined inter-departmentally because the Ministry of Economy had a member in the supervisory board, and the Ministry of the Environment was supposed to solve things because there was a transfer of competence between who was responsible for something. That's why I don't think this amendment can hurt if it can't use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. If you'll allow me to take the floor as an MP because I signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u156	Article 22 defines the composition of the Commission as a cross-cutting committee, as it considers the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and the competent Ministry of the Economy as members of the Commission. Therefore, I think that the adoption of the amendment only confirms the actual composition of the members of the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u157	Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. In some ways, I will support this amendment myself, and I am of the same opinion as my fellow Member, Pucko. Dear Members and Members! In this national assembly, there are many times that we are adopting legal provisions that are generally written, and some government representatives who wish to take the form of regulatory activity slightly different from that laid down by law through the legislative branch of government. If, with such an amendment as proposed by our colleagues, we literally write down, I think we are preventing some other sub-legislative acts that could have a significant impact. Personally, it is also important for me not to set up a commission, grinding from day to day, to at least enter into the law and thus try to enable more efficient and legal work of some departments. That's why I'm going to support the amendment. Of course, I regret some of the words that my fellow Member, Kelemina, has said here. Unfortunately, even if his colleagues were more present in this adoption of the law, our support could be much greater. It is also now up to this, my fellow Member, what will be the result in the election of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I am in line with your explanation, and if I read the entire amendment, I will not support the amendment. But I'm also going to replicate Mr. Kelemin this way. By the way, you said that laws were being passed just like that. This year, the committees rejected a lot of laws on interventions into space, on the construction of buildings, on investment funds and on management companies. Look how many times it's been rewritten. You didn't even see that, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I think I can close the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 22. We're voting! There are 56 of us present, 50 votes against 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the same motions for this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 14 votes against 37. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Just a moment, please. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. There is an amendment to the amendment to Article 25. Since I have incorrectly put to the debate and decision of the 25th Article, which was not adopted in the basic text, I am revoking the vote because we have an amendment to the 25th Article of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party to discuss and decide first. Thus, I am revoking the vote on the amendment to Article 25, which was proposed by the SDS Group of Members, and I am reopening Article 25. In the debate, I am first putting an amendment to the amendment of the Youth Parties to this article and, of course, to the basic amendment. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. We propose an amendment to the amendment to the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, namely: "For the word 'percent', the word 'assessed values' is added, and for the word 'production' is added the word 'for the current year'." There is no doubt about it. The amendment will have an impact on the state budget of 0.5% of the estimated gross domestic product value for the current year. The projected GDP for 2002 is specifically 5 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Our Group of Members will support the proposal made by the Youth Party, because it is much more precisely defined by our amendment to Article 25. However, with Article 25, we would only like to have a more efficient impact on the effectiveness of this law, because we expect that the interest of companies in difficulty is large enough and will also be on the basis of, I expect, positive regulations and positive interpretations, which I am often talking about, it is possible to obtain substantial resources from this title. You wrote yourself that one company can apply for a maximum of EUR 10 million. That's a lot of money, that's not a lot. If we now distributed these funds available this year, for example, with this key, some beneficiaries, larger companies, only two companies could be rehabilitated in this way. I think the interest will be significantly greater. Such giants, large companies that can draw up such large-scale programmes of these companies in difficulty of restructuring, are many. I'm pretty sure, you know, I'm not gonna list them now. This could indeed provide these funds in a way that would make this law more effective. I don't want to talk now about that certain items in the budget are unnecessary, although I might say they are. But in fact, huge sums of money from the state budget are earmarked, in my opinion, I say that even for inappropriate things, and it would be wiser to shift to an economy, to a base, to what we all draw together, and we will pump into the future. This is our proposal for an explanation. I hope he's supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u166	If it is the intention of the groups of Members to really approach the positive content of this law, of course we must also allocate the corresponding financial resources to it. In the context of the debate on the labour force, there have also been large-scale speeches and because it is also the government's representatives who have stressed that the level of resources is impossible to determine and that it is likely that the full capacity of resources will be used, to the extent that at least the Commission will work normally, I think it makes sense that at least for the Beginner's sake we support the Youth Party's amendment, so that we can define the funds with 5 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you very much. No one wants to discuss it anymore, so we can now conclude the debate and move on to a decision. First, we will decide on the amendment to the amendment to Article 25, of which the Party of Young Slovenia is the proposer, with a technical correction of "values assessed", not "value evaluated". We're voting! There are 52 of us present. It was 21 votes against 28. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to this article. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 19 votes against 35. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. On the third page of the SDS amendment, only a notification that the amendment for the new 25 a/ article has not been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say that at the meeting of the assembly we can make amendments to the amended proposal of the law, so it does not provide for new articles. Thank you very much. We have therefore concluded the debate on the amendments tabled and are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, we adopted two amendments at a meeting of the National Assembly. Yesterday, we were in the same situation with the consent of the National Assembly, which agreed that it was not necessary to prepare a review, because the number of amendments adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly was the one that we adopted today, the two amendments, at 22nd and I think that to 3rd Article. I ask if anyone would disagree, we will interrupt this item to review the two amendments that have been adopted. Don't you? Thank you very much. I can take this as an agreement that the review is not necessary and we are moving on to the third reading, and I reiterate that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 3 and 22 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether these two articles intend to table an amendment by 3 and 22? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, we need a brief reflection.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you very much. No problem. Absolutely every announcement - how many breaks do you need at this point? Can we continue with the other points?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u170	Yeah, look, I suggest this is more like the end of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u171	We interrupt the consideration of this point to prepare an amendment for third reading. In the end, let's take a vote. Did I understand correctly, Mr Jerovšek, you are announcing an amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u172	Look, I have him in mind. I just can't follow him that fast.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you very much. When you make the necessary decision, please inform us that we can proceed with this interrupted point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u174	We're moving to ratification. We're at 30. On the proposal of the Act on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Ireland on Air Traffic, agenda items of the agenda I ask the government representatives to come to the National Assembly if they want a word on the draft laws. The law was dealt with by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the vice president want a word? [[He does.]] Please, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you, President. Allow me only to warn you, colleagues and colleagues, that the committee proposes to propose an amendment to Article 2, which reads: "After the words in the original English language, the words are added - in a circle marked with an asterisk, the corrected text is added and the footnote is added - the original documentation is to be seen in the sector for international legal affairs of the Foreign Affairs Department." [[...]] This amendment is editorial in nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Do they want the words of the parliamentary group to present their views? [[No, no, ……]] No amendments have been tabled to the amended draft law, so it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We're moving on to a decision on the law. Can we vote? Please. We vote on the bill. 49 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the 30th item of the agenda. We're moving to the next item on the agenda, that's at 31. - On the contrary, the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on mutual encouragement and the protection of an investment. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the Vice-President of the Foreign Policy Committee want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] They want the word of the parliamentary group? [[They don't want to.]] Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. This concludes the debate and thus deals with the proposal in another way. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. 50 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're at 32. Agenda items - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova. Does he want a word now? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do qualified debaters want the word? [[They don't want to.]] No amendments were adopted by the mother's working body, and there is no discussion of the articles. We are moving on to the third hearing, to a decision on the bill. Can we vote? Please. We are voting on a proposal for a law on ratification. 48 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have passed the law and have concluded the 32nd item of the agenda. Thirty-three. We are in the process of confirming the official clearance of the Military Duty Act and the Foreign Act. Officially refined texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of our assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The official text of the Military Duty Act is confirmed." We're voting. Of the 51 present is 47 for and no one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the Aliens Act shall be confirmed. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote on the decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the law on foreigners. Not enough attention in the hall. One more time. Secondly, I will put to the vote the motion for a decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the law on foreigners. Colleagues and colleagues, may I have your attention in the hall? We're voting. Peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote. 55 present. 51 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I take it we've officially confirmed the text of the law. This concludes this agenda item. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to 34. Period of the day, it's on casually loving matters. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider 7 proposals for decisions on judicial election; a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board; and a proposal for a decision on the appointment of a member and a deputy member of the Public Sector Wage System Board. We're moving on to decision-making. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly 7 proposals on the election to the judicial office of the Court of Justice, namely the District Judge to the District Court in Krsek, two District Judges and two District Judges at the District Court in Lendava, Murski Sobota and Slovenj Gradec, and two District Judges at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The MPs or the MPs? I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Petr Žnidaršič to the judge's seat at the district court in Krske. We're voting. 51 present. 48 for and no one against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Natalija Pavlič Goldinski as a judge of the District Court in the District Court of Lendava. We're voting. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We're in the middle of a vote. 47 present. 43 for and no one against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Natalia Lebar as a judge of the District Court in the District Court of Murska Sobota. We're voting! 51 present. 47 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've reached a decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Mr Bogomir Brložnik to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting! We're in the middle of a vote. The decision is adopted. Of the 51 present 50 for and no one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Simon Dosten to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting! The decision is adopted. 51 present. 49 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Gordana Indar Veličkovic to the judicial office of the District Court in the working and social court in Ljubljana. We're voting! 51 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Finally, I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Ms Ana Jaklič to the judicial office of the District Court in the working and social court in Ljubljana. We're voting! We're in the middle of a vote! May I have your attention, please? 54 present. 50 for and no one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the supervisory committee of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder committee. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The MPs or the MPs? I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the supervisory committee of RTV Slovenia. We're voting! May I have your attention, please? We're in the middle of a vote. The decision is adopted. 53 present. 48 for and no one against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will now move to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a member and a deputy member of the Council for the public sector wage system. This proposal for a decision has also been submitted to us by a mandate-holder commission. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a member and a deputy member of the Public Sector Wage System Council. We're voting. 56 present, 52 for and none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal or decision has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to Continuation 5. DOCTORS OF THE DAY - Attention, please! - it's on the third defensive motion for a state's attorney's office. Let me remind you that the National Assembly held a second hearing this Tuesday. In the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer, that the third reading should take place today on the basis of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure. So now we're at the third reading. You have received a proposal for adopted amendments and articles of the amended bill on the bench. As no amendments were tabled before the opening of the hearing, the assembly will hold only a full debate on the draft law. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. [[They don't want to.]] Do Members want a word? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We have therefore concluded the debate on the proposal for a law in its entirety. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I ask whether the proposal for a law is inconsistent? I don't have that kind of information. We can therefore move on to a full decision on the proposal for a law. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We will vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. The National Assembly is in the middle of a vote. The law was passed; 53 present, 44 for and 6 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] This concludes this agenda item. We're next, 6. Agenda items - Defence Proposal for Safety Law on Courtyards. This second treatment was done on Tuesday, this week. The amendments were not tabled. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to the third reading. I would like to point out that, as a result of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, the provisions of the draft law have not been aligned. Therefore, the drafters submitted a harmonisation amendment. They want to say the law's proponents? Please, Comrade Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much, President, because I will be very brief. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There was an error in writing the amendment or when we wrote and tabled the amendment to Article 39. Therefore, I propose that this harmonisation amendment be adopted, because otherwise there would be a legal void and at a time when the new law would not yet be in force, no law would apply. We therefore propose that you confirm this amendment and thus ensure that the law is truly in force and that we can ski safely on our ski slopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u178	The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We will decide on the harmonisation amendment and then on the law as a whole. Can we move on to a decision? Please. We vote on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting! 49 present. 46 for and no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Now we're going to make a full decision on the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. Attention! We're voting on the whole law! Of the 50 present, 49 voted in favour and none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. Let's move on to the next seven. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. We've also done this second treatment on Tuesday this week. In the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a dozen articles and we were able to reach a third reading on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving to third reading. Do qualified discussers want a word? We are discussing the law in its entirety. We have an amendment to the proposal tabled by the government. You got him on the bench? It is a proposal to amend the second paragraph of Article 17. Does the government want a word on this? Who else? Can we decide on the amendment to a bill tabled by the government? We are voting on the amendment to the draft law to Article 17 tabled by the Government. Please vote. 49 present. For 42 and no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] Is the text harmonised? [[No, no, ……]] You want a word? Please, if you'd like to speak to me. You have the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u180	Can I have your information, please? Is there a harmonisation amendment on the table made by the government? [[No, no, ……]] Then I'll wait for the services to reproduce the harmonisation amendment. Unless you agree we can make a decision without it. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u181	I'd like to ask. It seems to me that our Group of Members has also tabled an amendment. [[A voice from behind.]] It's the government. So we didn't get it. Please, if you can check it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u182	But the amendment could be submitted by the beginning of the hearing. You've filed it now. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u183	It's the government now. You're changing the agenda. You're missing point one, and so on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u184	The government has invested before, but it's not just multiplied. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] So it's a question of when it's going to be multiplied, not when it's ever been filed. [[...]] And now you've filed it. I suggest we stop this agenda for a moment, not waste our time, and move on to 8. Point of the agenda, thirdly, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. We also did this second stage treatment on Tuesday this week. On the basis of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, we will have a third hearing today. We'll get to the law. You have an overview of the amendments and articles that have been adopted on the bench. Does the government want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u185	I would like to propose a harmonisation amendment because, as you know, the amendments have extended the active legitimacy of the application for review to the State Defence Office and the Office responsible for competition. We therefore propose that the fifth paragraph of Article 37 should be amended to read: "The State defence, the office responsible for public procurement and the office responsible for the protection of competition shall not pay the fees provided for in this law in the audit procedures."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u186	Anyone else want a word about the whole marriage? [[No, no, ……]] We found out the law was inconsistent. The government has proposed a harmonisation amendment. Can the Government submit a harmonisation amendment in the form provided for in the Rules of Procedure? Can you please do that? Until then, we can't decide. Please. I'm breaking this agenda. I ask that the government's representatives, at the points where we are waiting for their proposals, especially in the latter, hurry; in the others, we are responsible for the decision-making process, because we will copy the amendments already tabled so that we can decide on them. Let's go to nine. At the end of the day, it's a second-hand proposal for a law on high school. With regard to this item of the agenda, the National Assembly requested an opinion from the Self-Governmental Community, for the purposes of further proceedings, both within the framework of the home working body and before the National Assembly. This point of treatment at the sitting is not yet ready. Therefore, on the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Assembly postpone it to one of the following meetings. This proposal cannot be debated by Members but can be debated by representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. My proposal is to postpone the second reading of the proposal for the law on graduation to one of the following meetings due to the lack of willingness under Article 74. Can we decide that? Please. We are in the middle of voting on a procedural proposal to postpone the decision on the proposal for a law on graduation to one of the following meetings. This proposal is adopted. 49 present. 47 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] That concludes this point. We're at Continuation 11. Agenda items, this is the third draft of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Victims of War Violence. This item was discussed on Wednesday. The amendments have not been tabled, so we can move on to the third reading to decide on the proposal for a law. We can vote. Please. [[No, no, ……]] I'm calling off the vote. Explanation of voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to explain my voice. I'll vote for the law. However, I would like to point out that these changes in the law have also included a very important category that should be covered as victims of war violence. I will support the law with the expectation that this category will also be covered in the next amendment. It is a part or members of the former Italian army, from the western part of Slovenia, who failed to participate in the national liberation struggle, either resorting to allies or returning home and falling into German captivity because of the circumstances that have arisen. With these changes we cover the prisoners of war of the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia in German captivity. There are also forced conscripts to the German army. I think it would be correct and also non-discriminatory. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u188	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u189	that this category of victims would also be covered by future changes when we naturally obtain the necessary information. [[...]] With this comment and this desire, I will also support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u190	Does anyone else want to present their views or how they will vote in the law on victims of war violence? [[Nobody.]] We decide on the bill. 53 present. 43 for and 4 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] We voted the law. This concludes agenda item 11. 12. The agenda item then deals with the third defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Traffic Act. We did this on Wednesday. No amendments have been tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Excuse me for a moment. I continue to give the floor to the Minister and then to the Secretariat to determine the eligibility of the government's proposal, which will now be presented by the Minister. May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u191	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members. On the basis of the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, we have prepared the harmonisation amendments. I apologize, but of course a new text is coming, where it also states that these are the government's harmonisation amendments to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on rail transport for third treatment. In doing so, I would, of course, like to point out that I will not be indebted to those matters relating to the establishment of the Agency, that this substance was designed by the applicant in the context of a broad professional debate in which, in addition to experts from the state administration, established experts from the legal, organisational and economic fields participated. For this reason, we believe that the definitions or arrangements for the allocation of functions, obligations and responsibilities to the Ministry, the Agency and the contractors are Slovenian Railways, well defined by this law and are also in line with the law on public agencies. We therefore propose that this law be adopted in the third reading by means of the harmonisation amendments drawn up by the Government on the basis of this opinion, namely Article 3, Article 5, Article 11, Article 19 and the proposal for a new Article 34b. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u192	What is the opinion of our legislative legal service on this proposal? Is it procedurally acceptable for further consideration? May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendments that have been tabled as third-reading amendments and are now reclassified as harmonisation amendments are assessed as such. The proposed amendment to Article 3, Article 11 and Article 34b shall meet the conditions for harmonisation amendments. However, this cannot be established for the amendment of Article 5 and for the amendment to Article 19 to amend Article 31 of the current law. In addition, the legislature has also pointed out some other inconsistencies, but substantively, already in its opinion on the amended proposal for a law. So I would ask for some time to draw attention to these inconsistencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u194	In any case, we can't proceed with the procedure right now. There's some confusion. The legislative and legal service also warned the harmonisation amendment proposer that not all should be taken into account. Can the drafter, taking into account this opinion, prepare the harmonisation amendments? If these meetings are to be held by the end of today so that we can decide on them, we will decide on them, otherwise the National Assembly will decide otherwise. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! This meeting is very difficult and has very many very difficult points. But we're talking about a question that touches the way we work. I would like to remind you that we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the railway law. A number of amendments were adopted on the parent’s working body. Then, in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, the mother’s working body sent the amended bill to the spoils. This text has been drawn up by the legislature for a longer period of professional opinion, such as the number of amendments. I would ask myself whether this house contains a "fura" and it contains matters of law enforcement or government and parliament. Each thing has its own measure. In my opinion, the procedure has been completed. We have a third reading ahead of us, and my modest opinion is that it must not be speculated by the lack of consistency when, as a member of the legislative and legal service, you disagree with the concept of law. Dear Members and Members! Employees in the legislative and legal service may not write laws. The laws are written by the government and parliament. Someone here has exceeded their powers. The only right way is for the National Assembly to decide today on a complementary proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act. Anything else is contrary to the rules of procedure in force. That's my humble opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u196	As I explained, the National Assembly would now be able to decide on the proposal if it were not for a government statement that it considered that there had been a lack of consistency. The government has made a statement. I asked her whether she insisted or not, if she felt that this was the way to prepare the harmonisation amendments, that we would decide because they needed to be decided, because we need to determine which articles she considered to be inconsistent. That is why I have proposed that we stop this point until further notice to see whether this is so that we formally get her proposal. If we assess that these are proposals which are not of a co-ordination nature but which interfere with the content of the law already in progress, we will reject this and decide on the law in its entirety. We'll be adjourned by then. Please let the government take this recommendation into account, and it is now 3 p.m. If the government fails to prepare the harmonisation amendments in a short time, we will decide how to proceed. At 13. We have a proposal for a law on the construction of buildings. This bill was discussed on Wednesday, and this was a second consideration. With fewer than a dozen articles, amendments were tabled, so that we could proceed with the third reading on the basis of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure. Does a government representative want a full word on the law? If he wants to, he doesn't have to. Don't you want to, Mr. Digger? [[No, no, ……]] They want the word of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] We have, colleagues and colleagues, a review of the amendments to the proposal for a third-reading building law. This review, which introduces two amendments to Article 2, of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, is before you on your hands. Is that right? Can we make a decision? Please, who wants a word to the Kobe amendments that are tabled in Article 2? Please. I beg for peace, Comrade Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much. See, we wanted to complement the definition of an exercise facility in Article 2 for sport and recreation, in particular in order to promote sport and outdoor recreation. The fact is that this would simplify the procedure or procedures that could define certain areas for the exercise and for all that is involved. In order not to be too long, I will just say something about the illustration: we have one football field coming to 6,000 people, and the comparable European countries have ten times the size of it. In addition, I will say that the acceptance of this amendment will be terminated with an explanation and I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u198	Anyone else want a word? Am I right to say no? Can we decide? [[Yeah.]] I'm closing the debate. We will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 2. May I have the attention of the National Assembly, please? We're in the middle of a vote! Excuse me? [[A voice from behind.]] Please. It was a contract. I'm calling off the vote. I suspended the vote because the deadline was up, which is what I normally do. Let me once again say that if anyone raised his hand after the vote when the outcome was already known, he would no longer give the right to say a word. If the time limit is raised at the time of the vote, it is still possible. I will once again put to the vote the amendment under order number 1 to Article 2. We're voting! 54 present. 15 for and 36 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the right support. We will vote on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 2. We're voting! I'm asking for peace in the hall! We are in the middle of voting on the second amendment to Article 2. 57 present. 51 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I ask the motioner or our legal service. Is the text harmonised?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u199	President, thank you for your word. We propose three really editorial amendments: Articles 58, 164 and 191, which are the result of amendments already adopted at second reading. The articles have not been corrected now.They have not been able to be amended in the third reading. [[...]] We put it in, if I'm not mistaken, yesterday's supply. I don't know if it's necessary to reproduce. Of course, there are three editorials, and please, if you support them, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u200	As Minister Kopach said, indeed, the harmonisation amendments, you're getting them on the bench right now. Even if I don't break this point, I'll wait for you to look at them for a moment. These are the harmonisation amendments to Articles 58, 164 and 191. I'm gonna wait a minute, and we're not gonna break this point, either. Then we'll decide. Does anyone demand that the harmonisation amendment be given to the fore, or can we make a decision? The amendments are now being split. Does anyone object to me continuing the procedure? [[Nobody.]] Okay. Then we will decide first, colleagues and colleagues, on the harmonisation amendment to Article 58. Can we decide? Please! Excuse me. Objection, Comrade Sok? Well, that's what I asked earlier if anyone objected. And since it wasn't anybody, I thought we could make a decision. If one objected to this, then we are obliged to wait for this harmonisation amendment to come forward. That's why I'm gonna wait. But before that, I asked before you protested against it. Do we have all the harmonisation amendments ahead of us? Okay. So we can make a decision. First, on the harmonisation amendment proposed by the Government to Article 58. Anybody want a word to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] Then I will put this proposal to the vote. Please. Amendment of the harmonisation nature to Article 58. We're gonna need a little more attention. Secondly, I will put to the vote the harmonisation amendment proposed by the Government to Article 58. May I have your attention in the hall, colleagues and colleagues? Please vote. We're in the middle of a vote. The amendment was accepted. 42 out of 53 for, 4 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] We will now decide on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 164. We're voting. We vote on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 164. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 47 present, 41 for and none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] This amendment has also been adopted. Finally, the last harmonisation amendment to this bill, the building law of Article 191. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 52 present. 45 for and no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it this is now accepted. That way we can make a full decision about the law. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on a proposal for a law on the construction of buildings in its entirety. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We're in the middle of a vote. 53 present, 47 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that this law has been passed, we have concluded this item on the agenda and we are moving on to the 25th, to the continuation of the defence of the proposal for a law on investment funds and management companies. We're in third reading. Would anyone like a word to present the views of the parliamentary groups on the whole law? Nobody wants a word. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments. You have them on two separate documents, Article 177 of the proposal of the Liberal Democracy Club to delete the third paragraph and Article 236 of the proposal of two parliamentary groups, the LDS and the SLS, to add a new paragraph to the seventeenth paragraph. We have two amendments. Anybody want to talk about them? First, we will put the amendment to Article 177 into the debate. Anybody want a word? Am I right to find out that no one is? Okay. Then we'll decide. Excuse me? Crebs' colleague? He wants a word from the government, and I missed it? You want a word? 177th paragraph, yes? The amendment is to delete the third paragraph. Do you agree? The government agrees with this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u201	The Government agrees with [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u202	Can you turn it off? Okay. We will decide on the amendment of the LDS to Article 177. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 55 present, 32 for, 11 versus. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 236 of the two parliamentary groups, LDS and SLS. Anybody want a word? Nobody? The government? Did you raise your hand? You cannot vote, i.e. you cannot vote. Did you raise your hand for your word? Please. You need to get involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Of course, this amendment is only an amendment to 236th Article, which only partially deviates from what the government has proposed and what we have discussed yesterday, and the government therefore has an opinion that we cannot support this amendment, but we do not oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u204	Good. That's the government's position. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u205	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I want to explain to you what is the point of this amendment. It was also signed by Ambassador Anderlich. In fact, this amendment reads: "No matter what the provisions of paragraph 15 of this Article, which legitimizes the obligation to convert into a mutual fund, an investment firm shall not have to be transformed into a mutual fund if the shareholders of an investment firm in a three-quarters meeting of all capital take the decision not to transform an investment firm into a mutual fund." Those who know the dynamics and even the logistics of such decisions know that it is a very strong protector. I therefore propose that we support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u206	Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're at 236th. We will vote on the amendment of two parliamentary groups. Please, we're in the middle of a vote. 54 present, 31 for and 12 against. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. We are in the middle of an emergency procedure, so the amendment can be orally announced. The LDS added to Article 238: "The text of the first paragraph is replaced by the text," I quote, "'The Management Company which manages, for the first time, an investment company or, for the second time, an authorised investment company, whose shareholders in the Assembly have adopted a decision on the conversion to an investment company, shall, within 60 days from the date of entry into force of this Act, start accounting for an administrative commission for the management of an investment company in the amount and in the manner provided for in Article 177(2)." [[End of quote.]] Anybody want a word on that? Does anyone insist that we split the amendment on the bench? Is its contents clear? A representative of the government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. This is an editorial amendment related to yesterday's amendment to Article 177, which is why the government agrees with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u208	Does anyone insist that this photocopying amendment come to you on the bench, or was I clear about its contents? Please, buddy Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I do not believe that this is any harmonisation amendment, since Article 127 has not been amended or opened, but is a typical abuse of rules and procedures. I therefore propose that we do not vote on this at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u210	Comrade Pucka, what article are you talking about now, 238.? No, we are now voting on Article 238, you know, Comrade Pucko. You've probably moved on to the harmonisation amendment, haven't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u211	The amendment we just received - the government's harmonisation amendment, i.e. Article 127.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u212	Oh, that's later. I'm still deciding on Article 238.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u213	I'm sorry, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u214	It's a misunderstanding, yeah. This is an amendment tabled by the LDS Group of Members. I ask, is it because I read it and the power to put it in that form because we are in an emergency, or does anyone insist that we put it on the bench? [[No, no, ……]] Okay. So, to be clear, please: we will decide on the amendment tabled in Article 238, by the Liberal Democracy Club. Can we decide that? At the table - colleague Krebs insists that we get this amendment to the table. Please let him copy and distribute. Okay. If only one insists on doing so, we always meet such demands. Is this amendment now being shared? [[Not yet.]] Then I'm asking for a decent job to help us. Otherwise, it would not be necessary to ask this, but it is important. If someone does not think that it is clear to him from what the content of the amendment is, then if one requests it, we will interrupt the debate for so long that there are no later indications that the National Assembly did not know what it was voting on. I will terminate the 25th point until the competent services in the National Assembly of this amendment are divided into benches, and we will return to this decision. But we'll go to the 25th A.P. OF THE DAY. Yesterday we concluded our decision on the proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on corporate tax. We have proposals for conclusions. May I have your attention, please? The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the National Assembly also adopt decisions to conclude that the proposal for a law proposed by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. Anyone want a word on these two conclusions? [[Nobody.]] This debate is closed. We will move on to decision-making. May I have your attention in the hall? To vote, I propose the following decision: "The proposal for a law amending the Law on corporate tax in the second reading is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting! 51 present, 41 for, 2 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I note that we have reached a conclusion that EPA 50-II has not been adopted on the amendment of the Law on corporate tax. The decision was: The law is not appropriate. This concludes the legislative procedure for the bill. To vote, I propose the following decision: "Proposal of a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate tax, second reading, EPA 803-II is not suitable for further consideration." Can we vote? Please! 54 in attendance, 42 in and 4 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. This concludes the legislative procedure for the bill. This agenda item shall be concluded. Let's go to 24. Agenda item - Law on Aid for the Resolution and Prestructuring of Economic Companies in Difficulties. We finished our second reading today. It was possible to table amendments. We've got one in front of us. In the third reading, it is submitted by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Do you have it in front of you? Okay. Does anyone want to discuss the whole law first? About the amendment? He does. Comrade Jerovšek. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you very much. As we have said many times before, there is a big question whether this aid will be implemented for businesses. However, some help is always, some resources are always. And there have been major irregularities in the allocation of these funds in the past. And after these crimes began to be cleared, as I recall, ministers or ministers were not aware of what was going on. And so that this practice does not repeat itself, we are also giving this solution the opportunity of some smaller coalition party to take some part in the division of the cake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u216	Good. Anyone else would like a word on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group on Article 22 of the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble? [[Nobody.]] We can decide. Please. We are voting on the amendment to the bill, which is Article 22. It was tabled by the SDS Group of Members. May I have your attention in the hall, please? 56 present, 20, 35 versus. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Is it law? Is the text consistent? There are no contracts. So we can make a full decision about the law. Please let us vote. We decide the whole law. 50 in attendance, 40 in and 1 in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that we have adopted a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty. This concludes the 24th item of the agenda. Let's go to 7. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE. On the bench you have the harmonisation amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complements of the Consumer Protection Act. We're in third reading. Please, we've all got it in front of us. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u217	We have not yet received the amendment table table tabled by the New Slovenia Group. And I want you to explain it to me. This is because you have also skipped individual points in the agenda, and at the very beginning of the discussion of this point we have also tabled these amendments. I don't know what's wrong - I ask?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u218	So this amendment, Comrade Sok, was tabled after the beginning of this agenda item. The Rules of Procedure make this impossible. We should file it by the beginning of this session until the beginning of this item. The point lasted when you tabled the amendment. We would have made a precedent if we had decided differently today than the rules of procedure. Please take this into account. I'm not even looking at the contents of the amendment, that's all I'm finding out. This is also what we asked the government and the government to be equally consistent. So you have before you the harmonisation amendments made by the government. Anybody want a word? Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u219	Look, you started the Rail Traffic Act and the government went to prepare a harmonisation amendment. So you're not using the same criteria. They went to prep, and you told them if they were going to make an amendment, and you'd already started. So you stick to the same criteria for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u220	But to understand each other. One is the harmonisation amendments and one is the third reading amendment. These are two different procedural matters, Comrade Sok. The government regulates the matter with the harmonisation amendment, and you insist that after the third hearing, we decide on your amendment's proposal. There would be no problem if you insisted on the harmonisation amendment. You're proposing the amendment you tabled after the point was already open. That's the difference. Here we have the harmonisation amendments to Articles 15, 36, 57 and 63. Do you have this document in front of you, please? Okay. Anyone want a word on these harmonisation amendments? [[Nobody.]] We will first decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 15. Not to repeat, the government is proposing everything. We'll decide that. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 15. 48 in attendance, 37 in and 1 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 15 has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 36. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 36. Please, we're in the middle of a vote. 47 in attendance, 36 in and 1 in. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it this one's been adopted, too. We have an amendment to Article 57. Anybody want a word about him? I'm putting him to the vote. 49 present, 37 for, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] This one's been adopted, too. And finally the last of the 63rd. Anybody want a word? I'm putting him to the vote. We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 63. I ask for peace in the hall, we are in the middle of a vote. 46 present, 36 for and none against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have decided on the harmonisation amendments, we have accepted everything, so there is no more non-compliance and we can decide on the law as a whole. Anybody want to explain the voice? Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you for your word. I just don't think that just as much of the commotion as it does here in this National Assembly is leading to quality law-making. There is simply no way to follow this, Mr President. Once you're at 24th, once at 7th, once you don't bring the amendment, once we wait. I don't know where that leads. I'll say it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u222	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u223	You don't need me to tell you anything. I just told you what it is. [[...]] I will explain about this consumer protection law. We have tabled an amendment because in another reading it has been accepted that the customer, the consumer says, must prove a mistake or damage to a product. This does not seem acceptable to us, and with such a solution, of course, you have put the consumer in a highly subordinate position towards the manufacturer. I'm sure this marriage solution isn't good. The case should be resolved in such a way that, in fact, the consumer, if not already in charge, would be in at least the same position with the manufacturer. Now, the consumer is clearly subordinate, for he must prove that the manufacturer has sold him a product that is worthless or that carries a fault in itself. Thank you very much. I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u224	That's all I want to say. If anyone thinks we're being too hasty with the procedure, then any decision I make can give us a break. I have never put a decision to the vote if I have not been at least myself, as President, convinced that Members and Members know what we are deciding. I always wait. If anyone thinks we're going too fast, we'll always need some time to make every decision. That's not the problem. Comrade Sok, I understand your message and I will follow it. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u225	See, Mr President, we have written in our Rules of Procedure that you can only change the agenda twice in the course of the sitting. And you've been in this session at least five times today. And you were on the 24th and on the 7th and on the 6th and so on. It's like a pasha, you're just jumping.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u226	No, it's not the same. At the end of the meeting, we are now saving the agenda items as they are prepared. Otherwise, we can't close the meeting. Or at each point, we would find that we would place the contents of the point at one of the following meetings; or we would wait for what we could wait for until the next week. However, in line with the work plan of the National Assembly, which seeks to increase productivity, this is not so misleading. I will, as the essence of your message, act in every decision so that I will not put it to the vote unless I am absolutely sure that we know what we are voting on. This right is enjoyed by each of us and fully respected by the Presidents. Can we vote on the law as a whole? Yes, you can. We are voting on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the consumer protection law as a whole! The law was passed; 50 present, 35 for and 7 against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the seven.]] That concludes this point. We're at the end of the 25th. Agenda items - Proposal for a Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies. We're in emergency procedure at third reading. We have interrupted our procedure after the request was made for Members and Members to obtain a preliminary amendment from the LDS Group to Article 238. Do you have that amendment in front of you? It's just splitting up, I hear. Do you? Okay. So we can proceed with the decision-making procedure. We will decide on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 238. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We decide on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 238. We're voting. 53 present, 35 for and 7 for. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it we've accepted this amendment. Now I ask the competent, government or legislative and legal service, how is consistency? You want a word? Please, law enforcement.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the sense of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I must remind you that the adopted amendment to Article 235, where the new paragraph was paragraph 15, did not give rise to a discrepancy with Article 127 of the Law, which deals with investment vouchers, investment vouchers - does not refer to intangibleised form. This should be added with an appropriate amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u228	Does the government have a coordinating amendment ready? Please, a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The government has drafted a harmonisation amendment, and I think it's already been divided.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u230	Now, please, is this the topic that Pucko was talking about? [[Yeah.]] Please, you have the floor. I'm sorry if I disturbed you. Please, you have the floor, just you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u231	It is only a harmonisation amendment on the basis that Article 235 has been amended and there has been a disagreement with Article 127. On the basis of a notice from the Legal Service, the Government has prepared and tabled this amendment in the course of the night or today.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Comrade Pucka, would you like another word? Don't you? Okay. You have the floor, Comrade Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u233	Look, I have to protest strongly. That is, the new Rules of Procedure should make our work clearer, more transparent and more responsible. But here we get to the table some things that we can't even closely examine, not clearly define, and of course now we're going over this thing as a fast train, and of course it's hard to decide these things. I think that, Mr President, this is the wrong procedure on such important issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u234	If anyone thinks - and we will take this into account - that it is necessary to take time to reflect on decisions, perhaps even to move the decision to one of the next meetings, he can propose and decide on this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Is that the proposal at this point of the agenda? I always say, none of us in charge of the procedure wants to conduct the procedure in such a way that, due to time or other hardships, the decision on the content of the law is compromised. Does anyone want us to move this decision to one of the following meetings, as set out in the Rules of Procedure? [[No, no, ……]] The debate on the harmonisation amendment is therefore open. Anyone else want a word? Please, a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u235	If I may further explain [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u236	I'm asking for peace in the hall! The representative of the government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u237	We would just like to clarify further that this harmonisation amendment is not about any substantive change. It is only to comply with the existing securities market law, Article 4, which has already been in force and which has also been adopted by the National Assembly, and because of the editorial change that took place yesterday at Article 235, it is essential that the laws are harmonised. The content does not change and does not matter in a different sense than editorial nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u238	Okay. Anyone else want an explanation, a position before we decide on the harmonisation amendment? [[Nobody.]] It's up to us to decide. The National Assembly will decide on the proposal for a harmonisation amendment tabled by the Government in Article 127. We're voting! May I have your attention in the hall, please? 55 in attendance, 34 in and 9 in. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Thus, the National Assembly may decide on the law in its entirety. Can he make up his mind? Okay. We decide the whole law. We're voting! 54 in attendance, 38 in and 4 in. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against four.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. This point is over. With regard to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on rail transport and supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures - we are still multiplying and dividing the amendments into pieces. I therefore propose that the National Assembly wait until it has decided on these two points and finishes by 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - Proposal for a decree on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the recasting and privatisation of the public enterprise Slovenske železnice d.d. As you recall, last night we suspended the decision on this bill because there was a decision to meet the leaders of the national assembly and the leaders of the parliamentary groups. We met twice, yesterday and this morning. Following this consultation, where some different proposals were made, the four-party groups tabled a proposal for a decision to consider item 2 of the agenda, i.e. the draft decree on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the Slovenian Railway public undertaking. Does one of the candidates want to explain this decision to the national assembly? My friend Anderlich. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u239	After further deliberation, and in particular after the presentation, the head of the SLS Group, who at the beginning of this point justified the reasons why the referendum question should be supplemented or amended, and after having received the report of the home working body, to which the National Assembly had instructed that it should try to correct things in a way that was clear and that it would indisputably ensure, after the outcome of the referendum, the possibility of the possible implementation of any solutions voted. Since, after all these studies, we have not been able to answer one-off this question as to whether this can be translated into legal solutions and whether, on this basis, both the National Assembly and the Government could exercise these powers imposed on them by the electorate in some way, we, of course, believe that it is necessary for the applicants to clarify certain issues or to change them into at least three, in particular the fourth, fifth and sixth indents of the referendum question, otherwise this will lead to a series of misunderstandings and inability to implement this issue. This, of course, is all within the process which requires the national assembly to respond responsibly to the voter's request, as well as to take into account the results and then translate them into appropriate solutions. And because, as I said, there are reasons not to do so, we propose that this decision be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u240	To make it clear to all of us, and not least to the signatories who have been successful and committed to a decision by the National Assembly, in this sense, what are the consequences of any decision proposed by the proposer, the four parliamentary groups. Let me say that, in the event that a decision is taken by the national assembly, such as that made by the applicants, in the coming days, I would assess whether it is possible, without prejudice to the content, to change the issues so that they can be fully clear and then, at an extraordinary meeting next week, they should decide on such a matter. The National Assembly will decide whether harmonisation is successful if it comes to it. If it were not successful, he might decide not to confirm such a question, then the applicants have a path to the Constitutional Court, if the discussions with the applicants were successful, then the question would be redrafted so that the State Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution, confirms the call for a referendum. It's the consistency of this decision. Anyone else want a word? Please, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u241	Yes, I will not support this proposal for a decision, especially for the following reason: because this proposal was on the working body in this Parliament's procedure. This working body was also represented by representatives of all the parliamentary groups that are now proposing this decision. They were also, of course, representatives of the proposer. At that time, a debate took place on this committee. And somehow there was agreement at the end that everything was clear. Finally, this also follows from the report of the Legal and Legislative Service. And now, after that, there are supposed to be new strangers and new ambiguities. It is not clear to me now whether by that time these four groups had not studied enough to see whether anything else had happened until then. Or there are even political motives for not adopting this decree or this motion for a decree today. In short, I think it is not a matter of clarity, but of something else, and I will therefore support this, because, if this were to be unclear, it would also be unclear on the Infrastructure Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u242	Comrade Juice, please. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I'm the same opinion. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u244	Peace in the hall. My colleague Sok is the only one with a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u245	I don't mind them talking. The Infrastructure Committee said that the substantive changes concerning these six issues were not prepared and would not be accepted, but they were prepared to improve the text if these issues became more clear, as LDS Members and the People's Party thought. For this reason, the Commission was appointed on the Infrastructure Committee, which included a representative of the LDS, a representative of the United Kingdom and a representative of the Slovenian People's Party. The revised text of this decision on these six issues has been given us a turnaround, and now suddenly it is: that these issues are not clear and that a decree as such must be decided, I do not know, but that it should be postponed until next week. I would just like to draw attention to one more point when the government tabled in the National Assembly a proposal for the transformation and privatisation of the Slovenian Railways public enterprise, following an urgent procedure, was one of the arguments that every day there is so much and so much loss and that the law must be adopted as soon as possible. [[...]] So the longer you postpone this referendum, the greater the loss, and the greater the cost of your decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u246	Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Then we will decide on the proposal, as you received on the bench, a proposal for a decision by the four groups of Members. I'm putting him to the vote. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 55 in attendance, 37 in and 15 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 15.]] As you know, the National Assembly must, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, decide within a legal time frame on this initiative, so we are bound by hands. The position on the decision taken must be communicated to the national assembly, or the initiators must communicate by including Tuesday 3.12., so that the conditions for the convening and decision of the extraordinary meeting are met. The National Assembly will therefore decide within the legal time limit on the initiative of the signatories who have successfully collected enough signatures to make a decision on it. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Now we have two more before the end. Can you help me find out? Do you have any harmonisation amendments in front of you? In the case of a law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of the procurement procedure? Do you have it or not? Don't you? Looks like you don't have it yet. Excuse me? You don't. Then I'll order a ten-minute break, unless, of course, if anyone thinks that we can decide without dividing it into benches, but - I'll give you ten minutes off. At 4 p.m., the National Assembly will decide on two more points and then conclude today's work and the 20th regular session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u247	Members and Members of Parliament, come to the Chamber, we will decide on two more points and then we will conclude the 20th meeting. I kindly ask all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. I don't think we're done yet. But if we are, we're on the verge. Please, colleagues and colleagues, I kindly ask them to come out of the lobby. Colleagues and colleagues! We'll continue our work. We'll go to point eight first. I'd like to ask for your insight. The number 20 is highlighted in the upper left corner. This point is 8 and not 20. There's been a mistake at work. So it's 8. Agenda item, for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures. The Government proposes a harmonisation amendment to Article 31. I'm asking, does anyone want a word on this? [[Nobody.]] Can the National Assembly decide that? Yes, you can. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote! We're in the middle of a vote. May I have your attention, please? We are, I think, on the edge of the conundrum. Once again, I will kindly ask my colleagues and colleagues who are in the lobby or in their offices to join us. Two more decisions are pending from the National Assembly, and then we can conclude with a 20th meeting. I'm asking you kindly to join us. With your permission, I'll wait a little longer before we decide another time not to give you 10 minutes off. Is there anyone else in the lobby who can come and decide on the harmonisation amendment? Okay. If everyone would vote now, please, for peace! [[...]] Please decide, secondly, on the Government's amendment to Article 31 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures. We're voting. Peace in the hall, we're in the middle of a vote. 49 present, 44 for and none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And now we can make a full decision about the law. Anybody want a word to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] I fully put the bill to the vote. Please, we are voting on the bill as a whole. We're gonna need a little more attention. Again, next time I ask my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats. I shall secondly put the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the revision of procurement procedures to the vote for full adoption. Please, we're in the middle of a vote. 51 present, 42 for and none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] Thus, we have passed the law and have concluded the 8th item of the agenda. Do you have before you the government's harmonisation amendments to Articles 11 and 14? We will wait a moment for you to receive the amendments to Articles 11 and 14, because you do not yet have the multiple amendments to Articles 11 and 14. And I understand that it is the wish of the National Assembly to have the harmonisation amendments before it when it is decided on them. However, we have the harmonisation amendments to Articles 3, 11 and 34b. Minister, am I right? We're waiting for two more amendments. All we have to do is multiply them and divide them.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u248	I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues for their patience and ask the government to be more urgent next time. Indeed, the amendments to Articles 11 and 14 are now being reproduced. We have six more votes and we will conclude the meeting. We have five amendments and a full vote on the law. I would like to thank the leaders of the parliamentary groups for reminding colleagues and colleagues that we are continuing the meeting. I ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to help you invite your colleagues and colleagues to the hall to conclude the meeting. At any given time, I expect that the services will reproduce another document, amendments that the government has subsequently tabled. Then we could make a decision. We will first decide on the amendment to Article 3, then on the amendment to Article 11, on another amendment to Article 11. Then on the amendment to Article 14 and the amendment to Article 34b. I suggest we get started. We've gathered enough to proceed. At any moment, I expect that we will divide the multiple harmonisation amendments under numbers 3 and 4. First of all, I would like to invite the State Assembly to decide on the amendment to Article 3, the Government is proposing the harmonisation amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're making a decision about - colleague Skullsch. Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u249	I must say that it is not possible to talk about the amendments if the amendments are not on the table. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u250	That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u251	That's it. I'm sorry. Then I use it for the next one. The situation that has taken place around this law is directly devastating as regards the procedure for the adoption of the law. It would therefore seem to me that it would be in favour of us to enforce the Rules of Procedure and to maintain the integrity of the decision-making process, and that part of the comments had previously been made by other colleagues loud and a lot of grumpy, so to speak, either in front of the hall or from one to the other, to do in such situations, of course, what was the presupposition of the Rules of Procedure, to reject the law and wait for us to get a text that can be decided normally. Because look, these so-called harmonisation amendments really are amendments that solve a situation that did not happen in the third reading, but happened earlier. All of this was a presentation to the colleagues involved. The solutions that we will now discuss should actually be discussed in the context of the third reading rather than in the so-called harmonisation process. Technically, this is all possible, but by content it is unacceptable. This, I will say, is a good will and a desire to please everyone, discredits Parliament in its position to make it clear to us that we do not know what we are deciding. And that's gonna be the situation right now. Therefore, President, it is primarily up to you whether you allow it or not. It is not only a question of whether we are concluding a meeting within a certain time frame; it is a question of whether Parliament is making a credible decision. And I consider this situation to be a situation in which it is not possible to make a credible decision. I may be wrong to be ignorant, but to this extent I am gathered at a time when this complication came about, I hope to bet that if we were to do a survey and ask someone to tell us what we are going to do to coordinate, that there is no hero in this room right now. And that's a situation that doesn't allow decision-making. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u252	Comrade Squirrel, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u253	I will vote in favour of this amendment. At the same time, I would like to say that there is a question that concerns the new rules of procedure; I have already opened it twice in college. If I have previously been overly rude in my intervention with legal experts in the legislative and legal service, I apologize for their graveness and the problem remains. When the working body prepares the law and sends it to the plenary - I will be brief - it is a problem that my colleague Školč spoke about, and then the legislative and legal service prepares an expert opinion on this text, we usually have Members just one day or very little time to react with the amendments. Who is responsible for preparing the amendments? Therefore, since there were no amendments, it is necessary to assess that the parliamentary groups have assessed that they are not necessary. And now, in the context of the procedure, we have only the opportunity to support the proposed four harmonisation amendments. I'll support them myself. It is also the task of the Rules of Procedure Commission to deal very seriously with this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u254	Anyone else want a word? The debate is about amendments. See, it has not yet happened and it will not be that I, as President, would say because of these or other motives that there must be a vote or procedure on a law or other act through Parliament if any of the legal services or the legislative and legal services or the secretariat considers that this is contrary to the procedure. That's the first thing. If anyone tells me this, I ask myself, whether it is so or not; if it is the opposite, it is not going forward. In two years this has been the case and in the next two years, if we are together in this mandate, this will be the case. I don't have a problem with the procedure at this point. Another problem is that you have opened up, and I cannot and must not comment on it from this place - the question whether the National Assembly, in view of the open issues raised in this law, could already subject this Rules of Procedure to a sovereign rule of procedure. But I can't get involved in this. That's not how he figured it out. He may now conclude this vote, which is in the sovereign right of the national assembly. Anyone else want a word on Article 3? [[He doesn't want to.]] I will put to the vote the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 3. We're voting. 49 present, 30 to, 6 to. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against six.]] I understand he's been accepted. We're at the amendment to Article 11. In order to replace the text of Article 15, paragraph 11, paragraph 11, as provided for in Article 11, the word "agency" shall be replaced by the word "controller". We decide on this proposal, this amendment. We're voting! 50 in attendance, 35 in and 4 in. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against four.]] I understand he's been accepted. On the document you recently received on the bench, you have another amendment of the government to Article 11. In the text of Article 11, the revised text in paragraph 4 of the third sentence is replaced by the word "ministery" by the word "if it has not previously requested arbitration". We're voting! We are voting on the amendment to Article 11. 48 in attendance, 32 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it we've accepted this amendment. Article 14 is subject to the harmonisation amendment. We decide on him. Excuse me. I'm calling off the vote. My friend Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u255	So, in fact, I am missing a representative of the legislative and legal service here to explain what this amendment is in coordination with. I don't think this is about the harmonisation amendment. I don't know what this alignment is because it's a brand-new amendment that changes the text you've adopted in another read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u256	Minister, can you explain? Amendment to Article 14. Please. Would you like to explain? Please, Secretary of State. Justify that this is a harmonisation amendment. That's the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u258	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u259	I'm still saying it's not a harmonisation amendment. The harmonisation amendment shall be adopted when the two articles are, say, inconsistent. This Article shall not apply to any other Article. So in the third reading, you've just tabled an amendment that changes what we've already adopted in the second reading. This is not in any way a harmonisation between the individual articles. This is what I think, and it might be right for the representative of the legal and legislative service to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u260	Can I have a word with you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as the first amendment is concerned [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u262	By 14, the amendment at 14.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u263	Yes, to Article 14, to the first part relating to Article 21. It is the omission of the text 'and other regulations'. In fact, the first part of the text refers to the tasks of the public agency. The tasks of the public agency shall be laid down by law. As the public agency carries out its public authority tasks. However, public authority can only be given by law, but not by other regulations. That's the first one. And it's about complying with the law on public agencies, because it makes it possible for us to do that or that it allows us to do that. The second solution covered by the new Article 21a, which proposes the abandonment of the text, which reads as follows: 'from the resources set by the Government for its financing'. However, the reasons for the proposed suspension of this text are as follows. In the first part of this paragraph, the public agency shall be financed by the budget. So, additionally, the resources set by the government and also its own resources. We believe that this part of the text for which the deletion is now proposed is contrary to the principles of the Public Finance Act. Since the State shall determine all the appropriations under the budget for its operations and other tasks for which it is responsible. In short, it is a matter of alignment with the Public Finance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-29-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u264	Thank you very much for your opinion. The National Assembly will decide on the amendment to Article 14. Please vote. 49 in attendance, 29 in and 8 in. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand this has been adopted. And the last vote. This is a vote on the proposal for a new 34.b. We're voting. On the proposal for a new Article 34b. 50 in attendance, 32 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 5.]] This one's been adopted. We have made a decision on the harmonisation amendments. We can make a full decision about the law. The National Assembly shall vote on the law in its entirety. 48 in attendance, 33 in and 9 in. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We have exhausted all the items of the agenda or adopted the conclusions thereof, so we can conclude the 20th regular meeting. Thank you all for your cooperation. Have a nice weekend. We will meet next week at an extraordinary meeting, where we will decide on the referendum, and by then we will have agreed on the text, if this succeeds, to make it clearer and to remove the reasons for postponement of this decision.
