ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin the continuation of the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members of Parliament: Franci Rokavec, Franc Čebulj, Franc Kangler, Victory Jelinčič, mag. Janez Kramberger, Franz Sušnik, Lidija Majnik, Richard Beumann, Anton Partljič, Jožef Špindler, Aloise Sok, Aloise Peterle, Bojan Kontič from 18.30 p.m., Blaž Kavčič, Cyril Pucko for the beginning of the session, Bogdan Barovic, Dorian Marshič for the beginning of the session, Jaša Zlobec Lukič for the beginning of the session, Ivan Bozič for the beginning of the session. Please insert the cards and find out if there is a presence in the hall. Let's press the quorum, please. I find there are 48 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is so concluded, it can decide, it can work. Today's continuation of the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the third reading of the discontinued 13th item, this is a proposal for a law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network. The assembly will then move on to a closed 14th point, this is the proposal of the War Cemetery Act and then in the order in which we would like to give the floor first to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to inform my fellow Members and colleagues of what we agreed a little earlier at the consultation with the leader of the parliamentary groups in connection with the consideration of the item of the proposal for a consultative referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. First, let me say that we have met today with representatives of the government, the leadership of the National Assembly and the presidents of the two competent working bodies, for defence and for foreign policy, and we have discussed when, even in the light of the letter sent by the Government, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Ministry would like to act within this point, to make this point. Here we also have a proposal from the Defence Committee that the National Assembly in some way at a special point or special session reconfirm its positive position towards joining NATO. So we talked about how good it would be. The proposal is that, on Wednesday at 2.30 p.m., the National Assembly will hold the 17th point of this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and that, today, the majority of the positions between the leaders of the parliamentary groups will also consider the information that we will likely receive from the Rejkyavik Summit and from the consultations of Prime Minister Drnovska with the US Administration, and that if such a national assembly would assess, even under this item, we may adopt another document, a decision that would express our views on Slovenia's accession to NATO. Well, this is going to be a discussion. The debate will be held on Wednesday at 2.30 p.m. and will be attended by high-level representatives of the country. It will touch on the questions of the call for a consultation referendum and it is envisaged that we will also discuss all the matters of a strategic nature for our involvement in NATO, so that this discussion is expected on Wednesday at 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think that this is a procedural proposal in a certain part and I would like to try to draw it up in this direction in order to say that, on the basis of paragraph 2 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And I also suggest that all the unfinished agenda items, this is this point - now I don't know what's wrong with others, because I have a few more. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u4	And the others who won't be finished today.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u5	And the others who won't be finished today. That's why I'm saying we'd take everything incomplete to [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the sitting. Extraordinary session, I think, or regular? Next regular session, okay. Do the representatives of the parliamentary groups have anything to say about this? [[No, no, ……]] Can we find out that there is no debate and conclude it? We are voting on this procedural proposal. So, who's up for this procedural proposal? We're voting. Of the 55 present, 48 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the point we broke yesterday, this is the proposal for a law on the return of moisture to the public telecommunications network, the third defence. I note that amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a second reading or third reading, namely Article 2, Article 4 and Article 12. One piece of material, the government's amendment to Article 4, you have. The amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia is not yet in your possession, but as far as I can assess, because I myself have just received it, it is the same texts as it was in the review yesterday, in the event that the applicants do not explain it in the process; otherwise it is also being reproduced and you will get to the table. We would like to have a debate in the order of paragraphs 2, 4 and 12. We are under the amendment to Article 2 tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party. I'm asking if the proponents want a word? [[They don't want to.]] Just in case it is clear: in the review of the amendments, please look at the amendment to Article 2: "In Article 2, the word 'natural person' shall be added to the reference 'legal person' and the date 1.1.1995 shall be deleted." This is the text of this amendment, which we all already know, even yesterday we all had in this paper under item 1, so there is nothing new, substantively speaking, it is a repeat amendment. The minister wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u6	Briefly, Mr. Vice President. The government opposes this amendment for exactly the same reasons as we said yesterday. 'Legal persons' means that it would also involve companies that are already privatised, open re-opening balances and so on, and that would, of course, be a major chaos in this return. Nor is there any requirement on this side that this should come back, but in particular 1.1.1995 is of course the date after which the division took place and the creation of Telekom as a public undertaking. Under investment after this year and now, if they have been after this year, it is for them one way or another: they are responsible for their salaries and are obliged to repay them, Telekom, in accordance with the contract they have and will do so. Without this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u7	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. I am closing the debate on the amendment to Article 2 and moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. Mr. Gaber, is there something wrong with the voting device? Are the lights on now? Now, yes. Well, I'd like to ask you, because don't mind me saying this, but now our experts have taught us very well that sometimes only a card is poorly inserted and I ask you not to let this happen to us too often if you're so kind - I mean, all of us trying to do it together. We're going to vote again. I failed to read the results of the 59 votes, 19 against, 39 against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[39 versus.]] Although the amendment has not been adopted, I have not read it, and this is no reason to repeat the vote if the President fails to read it from the screen. The amendment under order number one was not accepted. Now let's go to the fourth article. I open the debate to the fourth article. Mr. Trofenik, but Mr. Minister, fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u8	Madam Vice-President, this amendment has been tabled by the Government because, of course, in the second reading, an amendment was adopted, which in our opinion does not correspond. If, first of all, I merely comment on the amendment tabled, I would just like to point out that, of course, it is included in the identical text, as proposed in the National Assembly, by adding two amendments, incorporated two amendments adopted by the Committee, which improve the whole article. Of course, in point three "Possible State budget appropriations" and added or amended is "contract value", this is the term "contract value". These were two amendments which were not considered because, after the adoption of these amendments, the amendments were irrelevant. It's so purely technical. Why do we propose this amendment? Above all, we are proposing this amendment because we believe that the article, as it was adopted yesterday, is Article 4, of course has a lot of problems, has a lot of problems and is totally unacceptable in the Government's view. For the first time, I would mention that the whole concept of law is changing. There is no more settlement in an easy and fast way, but it is necessary to start a completely different procedure, carefully analysing each contract separately, and also investment documentation for all these 4,000 investments, investment documentation and not a contract that is or is not saved. It is necessary to qualify the costs for central, water and connections and for some automatic settlement and table and commission, and thus, of course, there is no more talk. All articles referring to procedures should be completed. Who will carry out this procedure? The law is impossible to implement. In addition, this article, which was adopted yesterday, states that the difference between the realised average costs of telephone connection in individual time periods and in geographical areas and so on and actual contributions, but mostly in the amount of the applicable connection, is due. Realised average phone costs, this can only be calculated with enormous effort, with a total view in the investment documentation of PTSD over the last 28 years, if available; after years and beyond, to collect all investments and determine how much it costs and calculate average costs. In addition, of course, the question of the level of the current connection is a matter of course. When is it valid? Then? Today? If it's valid today, it's $20,000 gross. Then, in fact, this is an absolute logical error in this law. In addition, it is necessary to review all the contracts and find the documentation and calculate precisely where the headquarters are, where the water is, where the connections are. We haven't looked at some contracts, it's completely impossible to calculate. In fact, this law cannot be implemented. In addition, it means huge administrative, administrative costs and, according to our estimates, it certainly means that the return rate increases at least once, if not more. So we would adopt a law with significantly larger ones, but I could even say with very open, unpredictable calculations. Therefore, of course, we ask Members to adopt the amendments of the government and thereby amend the law in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Of course, first of all, the explanation of the text or its amendment, which the government has written, I say because there are two explanations: one is written, and the other is presented by the minister right now. I must say, they both disappoint me. The first one, which is written, does not at all justify why the government has adopted an article or amends an amendment yesterday because it obviously does not know whether it can find arguments or does not want to. In the written text itself comes at odds, based on the amortization of its philosophy or the non-amortization of its components, it speaks at the same time, which is true that some parts of some areas are already fully amortized, but of course serve their purpose. So - I apologize that I have to say so harshly - such a written product is directly offensive to Members and this is what caused me to think responsibly about some acceptable professional and principled criterion, the result of which was an amendment. I don't want to be an MP or a member of the ruling coalition to take responsibility for such a law if this amendment is adopted, because I have the feeling that maybe no one else has a genuine or sincere interest in solving this problem, which should have been solved ten years ago or eight years ago, but that we are in a position to be formally adopted by a law that will cause a whole bunch of disputes, not just a referendum, constitutional disputes and so on, and there will be no need to return anything, nor what is justified, let alone what the government does [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] . But what the Minister has done orally now, I don't think he's just holding. The remarks made by the minister or the government that yesterday's amendment cannot be implemented and that it undermines the concept of the law - simply, fundamentally speaking, is not true. Since the amendment does not touch on the concept and return procedures, but merely on the determination of the amount to which the beneficiaries are entitled for recovery; in no procedural sense shall any procedure be affected. Claim that you will have to look at the documentation - yes, in any case! Even if you return after a government concept, you will not invest public funds in your mind, but on the basis of some documentation. Furthermore, it is calculated [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u11	I'm sorry, just a moment. I'd like to ask, well, be so collegiate and listen to Comrade Trofenic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u12	Furthermore, the claim that the calculation is complicated is, to put it mildly, unrealistic. Each PTT company or in the area of each PTT company where the investments have been made will also need to be identified by documents of who has invested. And the average cost is the average cost of the declared entitlements of those who have invested; those who do not request cannot be covered. And in any case, this information will also be needed when, according to the government, for example, the proposal is returned. Therefore, do not do so, with your left hand, without wanting to try for a quality solution and rely only on the number of votes. The number of votes can be sufficient for the government proposal, but it will not solve the problem, as I said, which has long been resolved. Saying it's a bigger cost, but it's, you know, a very cheap intimidation of the public and the national council. Unfortunately, I have to apologize to some journalists, but I have a feeling that the wage law in the public sector began to take effect yesterday and that some have become government journalists, I think, government officials, because they reported and scared the public opinion that an amendment was adopted yesterday, returning completely irresponsible property, which is not at all true. From what it looks like, I will now allow myself to present the mathematical model, the primary school model, I apologize, but obviously it should be made so that there will be no seduction of the state council by the government and not the public directly by others. To put it again, I used the same definitions as the government: the completed geographical area after the then system is the area of one PTT company, Maribor, Murska Sobota, Celje, Ljubljana and so on, because they were independent companies and were responsible independently, insurance of this issue and did not spill any funds, not the means of so-called Sisian contributions. Let's say that in one X of these PTT areas there were 120 connections in a local community that were paid for by 4,000 brands, in the other 200 connections that were paid for by 5,000 brands, in the third 150 connections where they paid every 6,000 marks, the fourth 80 connections where they were paid after 7,000 marks, and in the fifth that they would not pay too much, 50 connections after 8,000 marks. If the beneficiaries so declare the claims and if the average value is calculated, the average 5,567 mark had to be contributed to the connection. That's the average value. The connection, exactly, is known, Mr. Minister, what it is and reads, if not, should be corrected: "at that time." It's normal when it comes to investment. And to say that this connection, the term used by the government, was never more than 1000 marks. This model, first of all assumption A: there was no need to pay the central and have no local lines, exclusively a local network. Now let's see. Those who paid 4,000 marks paid less than the average cost and get nothing. Those who paid 5,000 marks paid less than the average cost, they get nothing. Those who paid 6,000 marks, the difference of up to 6,000 between 5,567 is rounded 433 marks, get this. Those who paid 7,000 marks do not get the difference between 7,000 and 5,567, but only 1,000 - contributions; and those who paid 8,000 do not get the difference again, but get the upper limit - contributions. This means that out of 600 beneficiaries, 280 would have been returned in this model and that the public finance would have been 194,950 marks. The government, which claims to care for public property, would have returned 668,000 marks if it had been in 1994, but would have returned 1,000,336 marks. So please don't fool the public with claims that don't stand. The second option is that you've also been paid by headquarters, let's all say it's easier with the same amount. The numbers in the centre that were installed - all were domestic, the product of Iskre - was the most expensive by number about 600 mark and the cheapest one hundred mark, on average it was moving at most around 300 to 300 mark by number. For the sake of easy calculation, the average cost of the network is reduced from 5,567 to 5,267 marks. And again. In the first local community, given the 4,000 mark, they gave 300 mark for the central, they get 300 mark completely back, the network remains 3,700. Those who were 5,000 Marks get 300 Marks for Central, the network was 4,700. In the third, where they gave 6,000 marks, 300 for the central, there are 5,700 for the network. And where there were 7,000 marks, it stays behind the 6,700 network and where there were 8,000 marks, there remains 7,700. Little secondary mathematics is needed, the average value is also reduced by 300 marks and is 5,267 marks. The network would have returned the same sum, 194,950 and 600 beneficiaries each by 300 mark for the central, which is 180.000 mark, meaning together in this case 374,950 mark, which is still less than what the government is willing to return. This is said to be the case, even in this case, the Government's argument that primary school is not sustainable. Not to mention intermediate options, it is a little more difficult to operate with the costs of inter-terrestrial lines or transmission systems, but I must say that, for example, in the area of the former PTT company Murska Sobota - he feels sincerely that Mr Gerencher is no longer among us, it could be confirmed - not a single centre has been purchased by citizens. This was an exception in some areas of PTT companies, Maribor and Celje elsewhere, and I will not generalise. There are extremely few cases where citizens or citizens pay for inter-national waters and transmission systems. But there are cases. Why I proposed in the first and second paragraphs of the amendment to align the substantive philosophy and content or logic of this measure with the municipal contribution rule, because the central and the inter-regional lines, as I said yesterday, are not part of the local network, but they are a municipal contribution. Therefore, please, I would expect the government to respect the majority decision of Parliament and to go with the amendment to this - I will say mine without saying that this is my wish - an amendment. It's controversial, I admit, to the first point, whether we're returning 100% from the central or maybe less. Mostly me. It was the same logic when the government came with an amendment to the second point or the cross-border water as a whole or not. It could come to the third point: whether we limit return to the local network by one contribution or connection or possibly 80%, which would reduce. I'll admit it. I expected this as a substantive contribution from the government, but not a priori of rejection and of course of calculation - I will not use what is usually used here in such cases - or rely only on the number of votes and the discipline of this or that parliamentary group or coalition. I would like to stress honestly that my efforts, which I may be feeling a little sorry for today to help me come to a quality solution. No other business since we're in the National Assembly [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u13	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u14	were always between two fractures: during the populist cheering for a hundred percent return and another extreme, to return as little as possible, but not to solve a problem that is strictly of a substantive nature. [[...]] Although I promised yesterday that I would not bother the National Assembly with reading the text, I felt that this was absolutely necessary, because neither the Government nor anyone else in my discussion obviously wanted to reject the documents. Those who adopted the Law on Economic Public Services in 1993 adopted a solution in Article 76 which deals with the ownership of facilities and facilities - I apologize, because it is difficult to recall: "As of the date of the entry into force of this Act, the property of the Republic, the municipality or the city of Ljubljana shall become the property of the infrastructure, installations or networks and other funds which are, in accordance with the regulations, intended to carry out the activities or matters referred to in Article 68 and Article 72(1) of this Act, including funds which have been financed from contributions or reimbursements, from funds of self-contribution or funds which have been required under the law, self-government agreement or other self-government general act, solidarity funds, reciprocity, or have been transferred free of charge to undertakings or organisations for the implementation of the activities referred to in Article 68, and so on." However, the following paragraph states: "The provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall not apply to facilities, installations or networks and other funds which have been built or acquired by means of legal or natural persons in a manner not contained in the first paragraph of this Article." And that's the point of the problem. People paid under non-binding contracts, and the then government did not call on beneficiaries to submit claims under this paragraph, as was the practice in other areas of infrastructure, both in the municipalities where the executive councils did so and at the national level, as was done by the then executive council or government, before it was adopted on behalf of the State. And that's the problem, not because someone paid a lot or a little bit. The problem would not have arisen if this public or state property remained, but passing through a private form, normally, I have no objection to it, and for this reason I see that certain matters need to be settled. This is what citizens were not obliged to pay, which is the primary system, the central system and the cross-border water, and elsewhere to equalise to some extent, but not completely, I have never claimed that it was possible for the same money throughout Slovenia to get a phone, it is simple - I will not say that any question or any answer to this - but it is simply unsustainable. Let me get this straight. Once again, I regret the Government's failure to argue against the adoption of the amendment or to supplement it if it considers it inappropriate in terms of content. I don't think so. But I wouldn't mind. Or that he thinks he's afraid it's too heavy or too much of a burden on public property. I'd take that as well. However, 150 000, because it speaks - I would like to reply to the Minister's claim, which is unsustainable - that it means the implementation of yesterday's adopted amendment at least twice as much. Dear colleagues, we are talking about the difference between actual costs and the average. When it comes to average, it is 150,000, it is a large statistical sample and we can certainly say that half are above average and half are below average. It's said that 75,000 of them can theoretically be above average. However, since the contribution is limited to a thousand marks, this is 75 million marks theoretically referred to in point 3. In practice, however, it is significantly less. For other reasons, of course, it is not possible to prove it. This is a difference, absolutely, but not an equation in the area of former PTT companies, not Slovenia. Yesterday, some of my colleagues here in the debate told me, later, informally, that this is a huge, similar to the government's representative, the burden of the budget. And I had this feeling that even, I'm sorry, they didn't read the content and they went deeper, and that it was the difference between the average value, I'm saying again, and the actual contribution. And this one's limited. Of course, the government's solution carries a whole bunch of traps. Not only will she not abstain from any serious judgment because she has no basis. Based in fact on depreciation, it will be possible to challenge it because some objects are amortized and something is coming back. Others have not completely depreciated, come back less or even more than they should - at first sight. Of course, depreciation is a completely unacceptable criterion, because most or a lot of these buildings still serve today and, of course, it still generates income today, so I will not say profit in this system. That part of the government's explanation, which always warns, I don't know why, because the amendment never touched on it, that it wasn't capital injections at the time. Yeah, nobody says that! No one claims that, therefore, this cannot be a justification or a negation of the amendment adopted. If we went to the philosophy of equity shares, you could say that, too, it would be acceptable, as it was in insurance companies; but also for that time it is always, in the previous mandate period, for numbers to mean total return. A little over 20 billion. And that would mean issuing shares at the original price of Telekom's share, then 35,000, less than 30 billion returns. I don't plead for that. However, I am explaining these figures to prove that, unfortunately, government claims are unsustainable, and of course, I am disappointed that the government is giving us such arguments. I would be happy, however, if - which was also intended - to force the government to think for some correct solution that would be acceptable and actually solve the problem in substance, but also now, if the vote were to be in one way or another, the problem would not be solved, unfortunately. And once again, I hope I'm not mistaken, I feel like it's not a serious willingness, but it's just a marriage, not a concrete return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u15	Thank you. This was Mr Trofenik's debate, which has applied in writing for the debate. The next panellist is Mr. Puksic
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I already said in yesterday's debate that such a law, without our amendments, is not serious and is not worthy of being called a law. Surely all the consequences that will follow are on the shoulders of those who have come with such a bad marriage. We have proposed some good solutions, but they have not been taken into account, and such a law as this will not be possible to give any consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. No more debaters? Mr. Malovre, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this government amendment alone for the following reasons. Telekom has owned and, given the investments or contributions made today and at times, it is said that ten, fifteen years ago or even more, citizens are in an unequal position, because at times both citizens and local communities, as well as municipalities, have paid a lot more to develop the then PTSD. But now Telekom is dominated, there is no longer what was, and it is right that those who paid a lot more, although yesterday Mr Minister said that the impulse was much cheaper then, because today for all impulses is as expensive as those who pay less than those that we used to pay more. And I think that yesterday the amendment would have been much more fair to investors on the network than it was proposed. I will only give an example from the congregation of Šentjur, where the congregation, the then executive council concluded a contract with the then PTT that we bought the central and replaced the cable from Celje through Šentjur to the Mountain, because there was a cable connection in the then performance of Adolf Hitler, that is to say, "Hitler's cable". And the new optics also enabled more connections and, of course, modernisation and says "boom" in the telephone network of the municipality. The contributions, both the municipalities and the local communities, as well as the citizens, were significantly, significantly higher - then as today, the return to the proposed amendment has been eliminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Since there are no more debaters with Members and Members of Parliament, we would like to ask Mr State Secretary Kalin to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll limit myself, if I may, to this amendment, which is the subject. The amendment speaks of the average costs realized, not the prices paid by the people who paid too much. So it's cost.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u21	Excuse me! I must do it again, and this path is indeed Mr Lavrinc, please, if you follow the rules that you are laying down on your own committee for internal policy. [[...]] I'm milder in nature, so please take this into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much. That means the cost is a speech in the amendment. If we want to find the costs, we need to go look at the individual unit that you defined and the government defined in the same way for each year, the average cost of a connection, not the cost of those who have invested separately. That's one thing. Thus, the average cost of telephone connections at individual times is the average cost anywhere in urban settlements, in rural areas where testers have occurred, this is the average cost of one connection. So, at least that's a formal error if it wasn't already substantive. Then we understood from your explanation what you were thinking. But if I may, I'll do one of those hypothetical calculations. Let's say that the director of one unit in one year was "very hard" and charged everyone 15,000 marks, to all 100,000. Then the average is 15,000 marks and then no one gets anything back, although according to our law we believe that it would be compensable for those who have paid too much in view of certain elements, where you, of course, have concerns and we believe that they have some weight. On the other hand, there is a problem of how to divide the costs of one project into three categories: central, cross-border, local network. I've got a couple of sample cases here, that's more, but I just took them because there's one place one contract and three annexes. It means it's gonna be hard to find out how much they actually paid. However, if we wanted to achieve this, we could split these financial categories, but someone should, and not an attorney, but someone who would have to go deep in any case, should look at Telekom's investment documentation, the connection to this project, should "put these documents together," and we should all agree that these documents "feed" together, we should make a categorization of those three categories that I was talking about, give back 100% for two categories, and for one in that frame of mind - in a way that does not guarantee the essence of the law to compensate people for what they actually paid too much because they wanted to have phones a little earlier. So to find these costs in Telekom, how much is the average cost realised for each area for the last 28 years, this is a huge feat and is the question of what will be the results. I think this law is absolutely impractical. The impulses, if I may, have already been mentioned by the minister yesterday. We have introduced universal services precisely because we want to have social corrections on telecommunications, which means that anywhere anyone pays us the same for the connection and the same for the impulse. But it is true that this impulse does not cover the costs of someone who is - the last time in the Post Office we talked about the Kredarica, but covers the cost of the average one; on average, as you know, it is not today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Trophynik. Could you turn it off, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u24	Mr Secretary, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, you didn't convince me. Of course, you couldn't, because you have bad themes, and you know, costs. I don't know, maybe you weren't dealing with it, I was dealing with it. Ten years, sometimes, the PTT companies had, if you like, a pricelist for the costs of connecting to the telephone network where the network was built. In addition, they had some other additives: a contribution to the SIS and a contribution to the connection. Minister Umek only introduced the connection, so to speak, cost 105, there was no contribution, you got a phone in that one. Before that, you had to pay the cost they calculated for you and some flat-rate contribution. It is said that the average cost is known as the lower limit. It was normalized first for a distance of 100 meters, then it was normal for a distance of 160 meters. And of course, if we come from an assumption that you've made as a case or a trivial case, that everyone has paid 15,000 marks; it's never been on the whole of PTT - yes, yes, and I have an answer to that. And 15,000, about 1,000, as it was, is sixteen, at half to eight. Eight minus that, because there's, you know, you're badly served by those who should serve you, that's the problem, and you don't have information, so you're in a messy situation. Another matter that you claim to be an impracticable law because it is not possible to separate the costs of the central, network and so on. I'm sorry, my dear, it's not true again. The procedural adoption of the amendment shall in no way touch on the procedures you have prescribed. That the beneficiaries must come to prove, the municipality will accept and so on - I do not repeat this - documents: for the central, if there are no documents, there will be no return; with the documents for the network, if there are no documents, there will be no return; with the documents for the inter-terranean waters, if there are no documents, there will be no return. And don't take us on this thin ice! Go ahead. You know, he bought all the headquarters to Telekom and they know exactly when they bought one, where, how much they paid, and so on, because they bought everything at Iskre. He built intercreatic waters exclusively with Telekom. And there can't be a problem here. But the network will be a bigger problem. Because local networks were building mail, PAPs, and private ones at the time. I could count them. Therefore, it cannot be held back that this is difficult to implement. No! No! When the beneficiary comes in accordance with the programme you prescribed in the procedure, he will prove to the municipality: I invested in the centre, I invested in the one and the third. If the contract didn't say it was central, it was all about the network. And that's again "fearing" foreshadowed by procedure, rather by means, now by procedure, just to scare people away from accepting something. But we are willing to do - of course, every quality work requires effort. And the payback is required, at least by nature, because we'll be returning public funds. I am asking you what the Court of Auditors will say as the guardian of proceedings and the spending of public funds, if this is the case, without the documents, we are returning something from the public treasury. It will be necessary to demonstrate eligibility by means of documents due to the naked Court of Auditors and the respect of public property. Not even if someone thinks with some, I don't know what. And that's what it's always been. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]] So your claim that the problem is price, cost in terminology doesn't hold up, but if it's serious, you could have amended it, but philosophy, you don't accept it. Secondly, what you wanted as a model to be aware of, I'm sorry it's nothing else. You could also say that the contribution was nothing - is another extreme. Again, it is not sustainable because in each PPT area they have seen exactly how much the price of the connector is and what will have to be paid in each period. Here, of course, Telekom could serve you, but he could also serve the association, which also accepted this philosophy of bidding. Because there's a lot of people who like it. I apologize to you, purely in person, because I do not like such controversy, especially when it comes to personal matters: your arguments do not hold up. I'd rather have you and I back your arguments as a good solution, but unfortunately, no one holds back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I just wanted to ask you a question. All of us, and all of us. You voted for one thing yesterday - one thing at a time. And now someone, even if it's called a minister, wants to force me to vote differently. Yes, what kind of man I would be, please. Last time I asked the Minister a question, and he didn't answer me about those investments, about depreciation and so on, because, in my opinion, if the funds were invested as fixed assets and it was marketed immediately and so on and so on and so on and that the PTSD was dealing with the loss - I simply can't understand it, no one can convince me that this must be a loss. That's when you get the money, you throw it out the window or I don't know what. For example, in Croatia, whoever wants to have a phone will set him up with Telekom, now I don't know, then the service can be ten times more expensive than here. I don't know, but they're offering them, so they're stimulating people to have phones, so of course they're going to market. Now it's upside down here. Simply, once again, I will come to what I started: how will that man feel who will vote differently today than yesterday for the same thing, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u27	Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u28	Yes, I have one question. Indeed, I am one of those who believes that the public financial situation is not regulated simply by blaming the government that we are just ahead of the situation. As in Argentina and so on, but it is regulated every time we decide on certain assets here in the National Assembly, when we decide on certain rights and so on. So I'm not in favor of buying, like, municipal elections. What I see from the discussions is a lot of colleagues in here. That's why I went out last night. But I appreciate my friend Willy, but once he did, I'll say, drive the thirsty one over the water. This was the law governing the community funding system. This marriage is not the best, Willie knows it. And I don't throw it in his nose right now, because the others weren't actually willing or capable of putting it together at the time. But on a government proposal, I know how difficult my decision is, and I don't know what it is about him. If you can tell me this in some way here, of course my decision will be much easier. If not, I could kick it in the fog again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u29	Mr. Trofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u30	Dear colleague Lavrinz! First of all, I completely reject your observation that this is any election. I don't even know if I'm going to run for election. I was on the phone, and I flew out of the cabinet of a minister in 1993, so please don't give me that kind of stuff. And I have also publicly opposed those political objections that the unresolved problem of returning to telephony is used for daily policy. I didn't expect that from you. Secondly, I know that you're all afraid that someone is going to calculate something, and we're "crazy" - under the terms, I don't mean literally - to check ourselves and they'll bring us around. In the Law on the Congregations, I admit, we fell in the Constitutional Court because we misinterpreted one definition, I do not plead guilty, although I did not write the definition myself. That's why we fell, but the idea is exactly the same. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] , as is legal in Bavaria and Switzerland, which have a little more experience with local self-government and finance than we do. It's exactly the same idea. She fell down with us because it was poorly reasoned. So let's get this straight, because this is again, we know what kind of experiment we're trying to do, and we're not going to see it. But your question is how much it costs. He would be very irresponsible if he spoke directly about billions or millions of marks. And I'm about as in the same situation as the government, which I'm sure doesn't have a calculated meticulous answer as to how much it costs. Because I should also ask her something else why she distributed - I don't know how you read sentences - because she distributed in her basic proposal from 1974 to 1980, 1981 to 1983 - six years, four years or so - 1984 - 1987, 1988 - 1990, 1991 - 1994. This is not linear, there is no other scale, the step of the table is not delta, x is equal. Would you not ask yourself why they did it? Isn't it possible that they did this out of some speculation - I don't know, I don't foment, speculation? It would be interesting to know why these periods are. They don't write anywhere. One strange terminology is written in today's explanation of their amendment: "The individual time periods, this is what I was just talking about, are designed according to the related physical use and the technical and economic ageing of built-in telecommunications equipment". This can be said domestically: according to amortisation or amortisation. But why did they take - because the other part of the scale, the argument is nonlinear, and the result is linear, and then we go 20%, and then we go 30%, and then we go thirty-five, and then we go 40. And I warn you, once again, the cables are amortized for 15 years, the devices, that is to say, the centrals and transmission systems usually for 5 to 6 years. Yeah, now you can figure out which ones are already fully amortized. He could be mean, but he would urge the government to return something according to its criteria, which is unacceptable because it is no longer worth anything. But that's an unacceptable criterion. The government uses this once, and then it turns out that it obviously didn't want something else or she didn't know. And I'm sure if we knew, we'd be protesting on my amendment with calculations. However, since they are not prepared to do so, I am sure that the calculation of the government is also inaccurate, but it is responsible for it. But first, all I did was lay the framework, because there are obvious signs that I am burdening with the cashier's proposal. Far from it, we probably know each other so much that I'm early on for something to fall into a public cash register than there was something out there. And I have only set the framework that theoretical point 3 can be 75 million marks or 8 billion, as the government claims it costs. However, points 1 and 2 are deliberately small. But also point 3 - this is the upper limit, which could cost. However, in order to come to an accurate calculation, of course, you should have an insight into the database, which unfortunately I do not have. I also have to say that they didn't want to give it to the beneficiaries, because it's obvious that this game with the government is also being lectured to someone who is "passionate". And as much as I'm embarrassed to say responsiblely the public financial cost, I'm sure the government is equally embarrassed, even though it wrote something. But questions continue to be asked, of course others, which I deliberately did not ask. Why such periods? Do these periods coincide with other trends that have been because of the ambition of building - and in fact it has been in some cyclical starts after Slovenia and so on. This is, of course, the applicants should be able to respond. Or briefly: if I answer to you, it is difficult to answer the entire cost accurately without looking into the documentation, but to determine the ceiling or the risk, what is going on, and I am sure that this risk or this limit or globally does not exceed the cost of a government of 8 billion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u31	Mr. Trofenik's time has run out of time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u32	I'm sorry. I'll use another opportunity if I can.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u33	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u34	No, just an explanation of the misunderstanding. My friend Willy would never frame you for wanting to buy a local election. Never. I had in mind Pukšič, Sok, Jerovsk and others, so there will be no mistake in not telling who I was coming after. That's the first thing to say honestly. Second of all, I'm not going to support this marriage anyway. However, at this point, it is said in this article that it would help those who are more concerned about how this country can manage further, in this article. Anyway, I'm not going to support the marriage myself, and I told you why not yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u35	Mr Lavrinc, for the sake of rationality in the work of the National Assembly, I ask you to keep your thoughts to yourself in the future. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 4. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 4. Let's vote, please. It didn't work. Did you request it? [[...]] Yeah, good. Well, you've seen it. 58 attended, for 33, against the 23rd amendment was adopted. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. Now we have an amendment to Article 12, the candidates are New Slovenia and SDS. Who wants a word? Maybe one of the proponents? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 12. Let's vote, please. Of the 61 present, 20 Members and Members voted against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 12 is not accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated? [[It's not.]] Thank you. That is why we can move to a full vote on the law. So we're voting on the whole law. A voice explanation, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u36	Just two words. Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote against such a law because there has been an act and I think even a serious breach of all the agreements that have been made. Too bad I'll say it somewhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u37	Thank you. I ask, does anyone else want to explain their voice? Mr. Brenčič, explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u38	[[...]] [[Speak without the microphone.]] Now it's gonna be, I'm sorry. As I see this content of this law, this law brings a whole series of disputes, even a series of lawsuits and so on. And for this country at this point in time as it is, such a law has failed and I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u39	Thank you. We can go to the vote. Yes, you can. So we are voting on the whole law. Let's vote, please. Of the 58 present, 33 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 17.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister and the co-workers for their cooperation. And we're moving on to 14. Agenda items, that's a second defensive bill on the War of Cemetery. Yesterday we started by presenting the parliamentary groups. And first the representative of New Slovenia, Mr Drobnič, will conclude his debate, and then I have applications for: Mr Podobnik and Mr Tsukjati on behalf of, of course, the parties. Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. If you'll excuse me, I'll wait a little longer for my colleagues and colleagues to calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u41	You have a word, Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, in a fairly effective way, I explained our opinion, our opinion, about this law. Most of the references I have made relate to Article 1 and our amendment to Article 1 of this Act. So to justify the concept of war and revolution in this law, to reach a good marriage that we will not regret or blush. Allow me to touch some other articles. Article 4, in particular. It refers to the victims of the postwar period. The cemetery of postwar massacres is an unknown number, and the issue of soldiers or civilians, victims of war or revolution arises in all. As has already been said, killed in 1946, 1949, 1950 or later cannot be counted among the victims of war as well as among the victims of post-war violence, as was adopted by voting on the parental committee. We'll have trouble marking the graves of the Dachav processes. By marking the Dachav processes, we'll have trouble at all. I can say that some citizens have applied to the petition committee, a petition to find out. In accordance with the decree, we will try to resolve these matters as far as we can. The killing of soldiers, wounded or disabled in the war, after the war, by Konfin in the Greeks, cannot be defined by the victim of the war. But it's definitely a military grave because military casualties have been buried. With the present law, we will have, with the government's proposal, a major problem in defining this. We'll probably have trouble identifying a cemetery on the Orlov Summit where the soldiers are buried, but this cemetery is desecrated and buried. It will probably have to be arranged in some way, and we will have problems with such a law regulating such a cemetery. Now, too, regarding the question of whether domestics, village guards, and other formations were members of or were soldiers. If these people were just civilians, why were communists and revolutionaries killing them during and after the war, if they weren't soldiers? How to explain now a number of partisan heroics if they were killing civilians. This is where we find ourselves in our own contravention. If it is accepted that partisans have been granted military status during a certain period of history, this should also be accepted for all their opponents in the conflict, for wartime and for post-war killings. If this is not accepted as wartime opponents on the internal front and the right to a military grave is denied, foreign soldiers who participated in the destruction of the Slovenians as a nation will be shown a mortal honor, this historic injustice to domestic people and shame to the world, and in particular a fateful distance from reconciliation and reconciliation. In Novi Slovenija we believe that the determination of the status of soldiers is not subject to this law. The law should regulate how the burial sites of soldiers and civilians should be regulated. The government's amendments touch on the issue of post-war military graves. Here the government and continuity speculates again with the victims and does not allow military graves for any of the Germans, Italians, Slovenian national armies, patriots, even the English are so excluded. Such an arrangement denies international standards of fallen soldiers and piettes, and we will also be able to build up problems in the international public. Let us be aware that there were about 200,000 people of different nationalities and armies in our territory immediately after the end of World War II. The law proposes that the inscriptions on the graves should not be magnified by Nazi or fascist ideology, with which we agree without reservation. However, as usual, the concept of communist ideology has fallen out, which apparently remains unproblemistic for some. That is why we have proposed an amendment that prohibits the magnification of communism. It is unusual that Slovenia still lives in the belief that communism is not controversial as ideology and not as practice. Otherwise, we advocate withdrawing from the text the doctrine of the glorification of Nazism, fascism, and communism. Other provisions clearly define what will be written on the monument. Once again, however, we reiterate whether all three totalitarian ideologies will be banned, or whether it will not be determined by law. I think or in the New Slovenia Group we think that Slovenian people are smart enough and reasonable enough not to write such things. If we look at the farmboards that the victim’s family has laid, you will not find any such inscriptions to magnify, for that would be madness. There was no war in this context either. The proposal to put on the monument an inscription expressing the formations in which the members died and their historical role, as they themselves understood, makes sense to the context that all graves should be treated with the same criteria. Since partisan grave inscriptions include formations as well as extracts indicating a role in the war, it would be uneven to ban the other side and to unwittingly correct the extracts. Here we do not want to trouble the inscriptions and signs that are on these monuments, from the stars, from the Serbs, from the hammers and anything else that indicates a connection to the revolution or the struggle against the invader. Keep the markings. Although we feel in New Slovenia that it would be better for all sides not to have such texts and should not be included in the law, because it is an underestimation of people. Fellow Members and fellow Members. The war of the cemetery has to be arranged. They need to be arranged, no matter who lies in them. This is what we owe for civil reasons. We owe it to people whose bones lie all over Slovenia. We need to know that this territory, if we exclude Russia, was the largest sea in Europe after World War II, in such a small place. If we want reconciliation, the dignity of Slovenia and entry into the society of the European nations, we need to settle this. Other countries have organised this in a civil way. The Slovenians can do that, too. They also need to be regulated in order to avoid continuing to stop work in the construction of plumbing, roads, buildings. It is also necessary to edit them for the sake of craftsmen, for it will be a warning that no one else would remember such a work as had been done in those terrible times of our fathers. However, it is necessary to indicate what the victims were, clearly, because of the message and the warning given to the explorers. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the government coalition, the grave settlement law should not be an apple of a dispute, but our common contribution to respect for another. We expect you to confirm our proposals made in the Coalition of Slovenia, which are creative and well-intentioned and would thus, once and for all, close this chapter in the history of Slovenians, tragically and ruthlessly. Young people do not want to keep returning to the beginning, but they certainly want to settle this issue, which will be in line with the truth. Otherwise, we will not be credible before ourselves and others, and the question of history will always open. Thank you so much for listening to me, the ones who listened to me and the others can read the tape, for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u43	Thank you. The views of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Podobnik. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. A few days ago, one of the clear companions of the Slovenian political scene surprised me with his opinion that normally in the National Assembly and also, as he said, in Slovenian politics there are two issues: when it is necessary to resolve postwar beatings or when it is necessary to question the abuse of laws on property. These are two topics, he assessed where no political consensus has been reached and, as a rule, Slovenian policy has not done what it should. Let there be another reading of the War Cemetery Act to do what must be done on this sensitive issue of postwar beatings. This law should be described as a European law. It's European law. The main purpose of the law is to regulate and maintain graves. The law is also supposed to be an important part of the reconciliation process or national reconciliation process. I would like to intrude fully on the way to comply with the rules of procedure in force, as this is possible. It started in 1998, it continued in 2000, and today we are in 2002. In this law, there have been significant changes in the message and in the symbolic details of the law during the first and second readings. The Rules of Procedure allow this to happen and the policy must be able to take advantage of the rules in force. One question is whether a technical law dealing with the issue of the regulation and maintenance of graves can enter the area of the reconciliation process and national reconciliation. We say yes in the Slovenian People's Party. This law is not a classic law. Why not? Because the President of the State has spoken to him. It's a rare call from the president of the state, this time. In our client's opinion, it's too late, but he did. We met with the President of the National Assembly on this bill. We were looking for ways to get as unitedly into this place as possible and to find solutions in the area of Slovenian politics that would bring us closer together. In this law, in our opinion, the current government has adopted one of those documents that it can be proud of for years and years. That's a statement. Maybe he's a secretary of state, mag. When he touched on some other questions, he mistakenly forgot to mention that statement. We would also like to express our recognition of the Magi. The priest who tried. When he was preparing this law, it wasn't easy. In fact, he became the minister for this area, for the current minister did not deal with these issues and left everything to him. But the government has accepted a statement. I believe it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to mention it because it touches on this law. First, in her statement, she made a very sensitive and comprehensive attempt to describe the events of that time with a language that is political and historical, and she did so in a way that is called Petethic, Cultural and Civilisational. Ministers of the Slovenian People's Party were very active in preparing this document. They didn't treat it like that, but the document stays. The government undertakes to fully and comprehensively arrange the covert graves of mass post-war beatings to restore dignity to those killed without judicial proceedings, so that it can contribute to the reconciliation and respect of common values. The Government undertakes that the government, ministries, competent bodies, government services and offices are obliged to cooperate and to assist the Commission in recording and marking hidden graves. When locating and marking all hidden postwar graves in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Here we would also like to highlight the very important contribution made by the President of this Commission, Petr Kovacic Peršin, his Deputy Dr. Hribarjeva and all members. The Commission is made up in such a way that we can say that it somehow represents a section of all those that are very sensitive to these issues. I hope that the question is resolved that there is also a representative of the Union of Fighters on this committee, as it was not, after the first version. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will ensure that its competent authorities issue death certificates for all those killed after the war. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the State Prosecutor's Office to establish procedures for determining and entering death under the Mother Book Act in all cases where there is no other applicant. No government has adopted such binding solutions as that government has adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia orders the competent authorities to cooperate with representatives of civil society and the property of the victims in the regulation of the Mother Book of the Dead. And also point 7 of the statement, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will provide all the necessary resources for the functioning of the Commission, for the purposes of the judicial authorities, for the management and maintenance of the cemetery as a whole from the adopted budget, if necessary, as well as from the budget reserve. You will remember, December-January was one of the main political issues in Slovenia. There were problems with money and other matters. At that time, the government also said that it would strive for the earliest possible adoption and implementation of the War Cemetery Act. It's May. We hope that this will be adopted by June. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the basic concept of the law, which we call the conciliation concept. The basic motto of the soothing concept could be found in the words: Pieteta is not only the right to a grave, to a pile of land, to a heap, but the right to an equivalent memory for everyone and for everyone. Whoever wants to share the graves with ours and the others goes over the line, the only impenetrable in the world. Between life and death. It is the fifth and is the foundation of our civilization from Greece away. Many will realize that these are the thoughts of Dr. Remembrance of Hribar. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support all the government's amendments. We expected our fellow Members from the left and right centre to withdraw their amendments and that the place where we meet may be a government solution in this case. It has shown well, until perhaps a poorly thought-out majority on the committee led by our hardworking colleague Brenčič, when it is in the government's rightful solution to write down, I quote: "The words of the consecrated nature are in the military graves of article 2 of this law, except in the graves of members of foreign armies, it reads: "He fell into war, Republic of Slovenia". On the graves of the victims of the war referred to in Article 3 of this Law: "Death as Victims of War, Republic of Slovenia". On the graves of the victims of war, after the war of the dead, I stress, after the war of the dead, and this is Article 4 of this law: "Death as victims of war and revolution, Republic of Slovenia". This is the solution proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a just solution. Most of the board replaced the word "revolution" with the word "war violence". We were therefore surprised, and we also regretted the fact that the President of the State in his letter supported all the amendments of the government, but unfortunately did not support the basic amendment of the government to the 13th Article, which mentions the revolution, but referred to the solution proposed by the Committee. The President of the country had a unique opportunity to support the government. And I'd do the right thing. However, we expect Members and Members to support the government in this case. Another commitment lies ahead of us, which we do not stress too often. This is Council of Europe resolution 1096 on measures to eliminate the legacy of the former totalitarian communist regimes. This resolution shows us how to do what the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is supposed to do in a patient way, in a respectful way, but with clear solutions. As in all these years, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will be made up of two key wings, as we have done in all these years, and we will continue to do so. We will adopt solutions that will constitute national reconciliation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Squirrel. Mr Tsukati has the floor on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u46	Your Honor! Unfortunately, Slovenia is sown with mass graves from a half-lived history, but there are many of them that cannot be classified as war graves, because they are not the result of war conflicts and not war events, but are the result of something else. Respect for the death demands and is expressed in respect for the truth. Unfortunately, we're going to have to do this one time too. Speaking of graves, we can't get past talking about those who are buried here. These aren't just bones, they're not landfills. There are names and names in here, personal fates. We can't get past the questions about why they're here, and artificially stretch the concept of war even for all postwar years, there until 1950. It's an unserious thing to do. I don't know why and where we've been so frantic, we've been so afraid of the term "revolution," we haven't been ashamed of him for 50 years, we're ashamed of him now. The law that we have before us should also cover the graves of those victims whose murder has nothing to do with war, unless by the concept of war we are referring to civil war, including civil war, and in this case war graves would not cover those graves, as I said, which were caused by revolutionary violence before the outbreak of anti-revolution, that is civil wars, and not those graves that were created after the end of II. World War II, which also meant the end of civil war. After June 15, 1945, there were no more fights; there were only winners and captives; it was just an incomprehensible event. Initially, the Coalition of Slovenia proposed the common title "The Cemetery of War and Revolution", which many Members disagreed with. That is why we are now proposing a fully indivisible title of the law, namely the Special Cemeteries Act, not all of them, but of specific graves. This address also allows the inclusion of non-military graves and graves of revolutionary violence. In Article 1, we propose to change the title to the definition of specific graves and propose the introduction of an additional concept of "the cemetery of the victims of the revolution". Because, in our view, it is a very important amendment, at least for us and for all who probably want to put a piece of truth here, for an amendment that we will also meet in other forms in other articles, in 4, 13, and so on, allow me to base it in more detail. The revolution was in Slovenia between II. the world war of the central tourist resort of events. Without the revolution, we can't understand neither the anti-revolution nor the patriotism nor the silent graves. Many historical facts confirm us in the assumption that it was primarily a revolution, and not so much a resistance against the invader, the driving force of the Liberation Front leadership. In 1940, the Communist Party of Slovenia magnified the pact between Hitler and Stalin in all its mouth, as it was supposed to be, I quote: "... the infernal plan of the English and French imperialists is disabled." Even during the German attack on Yugoslavia, the Communists showed no indignation or patriotic concern. On April 27, 1941, we all know that the Liberation Front was not established, but in Vidmar's villa on the Eternal Path under Rožnik an anti-imperialist front was set up against Western imperialists, that is against France and England. As a leader of this front, it has set itself that, at no cost and under no circumstances should we allow our nation to be plunged into war for the world's capitalists. The name Liberation Front is the first to be seen on a leaflet by the Communist Party of Slovenia only on 23 June 1941. On June 22, 1941, Germany attacked the Soviet Union and on July 1, 1941, the great Stalin urged all the Communist parties of the world to instigate rebellions in the German hinterland because it would benefit the Soviet Union, on July 4, 1941, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia in Belgrade adopted a decision on the start of an armed struggle in Yugoslavia. Everything shows that our Communist party followed orders from Moscow as quickly and faithfully as possible, first in a race against the English and French imperialists, then in a rebellion against the Germans. From this we can rightly conclude on its, at least then, cooperative attitude if I use this famous term. Edward Kocbek, considered by some to be a naive philosopher and poet, but from the beginning he was the leader of the Liberation Front, says that the liberation front was at the beginning of the coalition of three completely independent and equal fundamental groups: Communist, Christian-Social and Falcon. And he goes on to quote: "From the army and the field at that time we received constant complaints that parties with force and trickery wanted to crouch as actual leaders. The worst part was the fact that the party served violence in this job. Something foreign and dangerous has entered the atmosphere of the liberation front. We sensed superslovak and super-democratic goals. The party abolished the emancipation of equality and began to build its exclusive power. He began to act as a silent terror." The Slovenian Party, says Kocbek, was not a sovereign body either in formal and organizational terms, nor in its moral consciousness, because its leadership was responsible to the centre outside itself and outside of Slovenian sovereignty, which was then represented by the liberation front. The developments showed that the Slovenian party was primarily not committed to Slovenian sovereignty. Why am I saying this? To try to understand certain events, their actions, and try to prove the importance of the amendment, which introduces the term revolutionary violence. So these were the beginnings, not the bright revolution, but the beginning of the saddest period of Slovenian history. In one year – from July 1941 to July 1942, when the first village guard, the anti-revolution so-called, appeared in Šentjost nad Horjul, the communist secret police of VOS had already cleaned up nine hundred, according to some estimates of five hundred Slovenian educators, mayors, respected farmers, etc. At least 64 families were killed and at least half of the murders were accompanied by ritual torture, a bloody night ritual that sowed fear in Slovenian villages and gave birth to a self-defense reaction by villagers. In one letter to Titus, Kardelj praised himself as follows: "This apparatus," because the security-intelligence service, "it works today," that is then, "really better than the Gestapo, the VOS is afraid of being the devil of the cross," and it is not the invader, but our own, domestic, Slovenians. To understand the emergence of the so-called counter-revolution, let me mention just a few acts of communist terror in the vicinity of Šentoszcz or Vrhnika, before the village guard first appeared in Šentoszcz. In December 1941, the waxtroopers invaded the Veharjevem at Verdh, Vrhnika, and in the face of several minor children, Father Paul and Mother Mary Vehar were murdered. Also in December 1941, members of the Canary Battalion at the Black Top of Polhovi Gradec kidnapped Yuri Buh, the father of five children, dragged him into the forest, and ended up with an axe. In April 1942, partisans in Zabuczen, Borovnica, in the presence of six children aged 2 to 13, killed Father Jožet Mihelčič and Mother Ivana, who were pregnant. On April 27, 1942, partisans in the village of Dobrova kidnapped three sisters, 22-year-old Mary, 19-year-old Ivanka, 18-year-old France, and took them to a camp on the Key and did strange things with them and killed them the next day. On May 11, 1942, the partisans killed Rafael Praise and his wife, Josepho, who had abandoned two children. And so on and so forth. I list names because they're not blind bones, whatever, they're names and surnames that have their own personal story. On June 14, 1942, partisans kidnapped Horulo Mayor Janez Bastic and his wife, Mary, and murdered them at night. They left behind seven children, five of whom were later killed. I ask all those Members who hear this: What would you do if the night were to gather your neighbors, and if in the middle of the night they were to torture you and kill your whole family? What would you have done? Wouldn't we take the gun and defend ourselves? Wouldn't you and your friends set up armed guards around the village every night? And that's exactly what happened. On July 17, 1942, we received the first village guard in Slovenia in Šentjošt nad Horjul, a guard that the Communists humbly called the white guard. This, unfortunately, happened exactly what the Communist Party of Slovenia wanted: two weeks after the establishment of the village guard in Schengen, the Partisans in the vicinity of Šentosti staged a real slaughter of locals. They killed 20 Slovenes and Slovenes, including 13 parents, who left behind 46 children aged from a few weeks to a few years. In the correspondence Kardelj - Kidrič we read, quote "the right policy of the Liberation Front and the Communist Party of Slovenia forced the white guard to take its historic, inevitable step in the circumstances that were most unpleasant for her". For those days Edward Kocbek says: "Let me make it clear that the days when the white guard appeared were my darkest days. On the faces of the parties I learned the joy of such a fair and cheap appearance of my true opponent." In one year, therefore, the Party managed to provoke anti-revolution and to force civil war by threatening and terror. And it was at a time when the Bislovak nation so badly needed its internal unity. On May 24, 1972, Vjesnik quoted Titus as saying: "It was the same in Slovenia. So it was urban work. But we didn't want to talk about it because it wouldn't do us any good." In doing so, we must not forget that almost two months before the central committee of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia on 4 July 1941 in Belgrade adopted a decision on the start of an armed fight in Yugoslavia, Sokol in Ljubljana, led by ing. Lady Bevac, have already organized an illegal resistance movement against the invader of the Sokol War Council, almost two months earlier. At the beginning of May 1941, in Ribnica, Dolenjska, two months earlier, a unit of anti-occupationist formation Tiger, which had no connection with the communists at the time, had already dealt with Italians, and this Slovenian national resistance had experienced the first military casualties. So it was two months before the Communists decided to organize a rebellion. Even the Institute for Recent History in its 1995 scientific report acknowledges that, I quote, "more anti-occupation organisations have emerged in Ljubljana in the spring and summer of 1941". But as early as autumn of September 1941, the plenary of the Liberation Front, in a decree on the protection of the Slovenian people, decided and proclaimed, quote, "that anyone who tries to organize resistance against the invader outside the control of the Liberation Front will be considered a national traitor and punished with death". This was therefore a fundamental revolutionary act, the monopolization of resistance against the invader and a criminal threat to all those who would not accept orders and the supremacy of the Liberation Front. This decree could be regarded as a formal beginning of the revolution. Without understanding the revolution and the revolution, we cannot understand the victims and their actions. Without this understanding, it is not possible to have an incorrect discussion of the silent graves and not the minimum pieta that we owe to the deceased. For 50 years we have heard the story of the bright motives of the Liberation Front and of the treasonous motives of the so-called collaboration. It is time for at least a symbolic step towards a fair balance of judgment. It's time for us to make some effort to understand those who were killed with profanity, domestic traitors. For this and this is exactly what requires of us a fifth to the dead. Bojan Polak Stjenka, commander of the National Security Army Command, wrote on 15 December 1944, among other things: "Our main task is to relentlessly exterminate internal enemies. In addition to these tasks, troops, battalions, national security brigades must destroy and expel the invaders from our country." So if the partisan command was the basic motive and the resistance to the occupier was second only, then surely we cannot go beyond the concept of victims of revolutionary violence. That without the marking of the tomb of the victims of the revolution, it is also evident from the terrible start that the revolution took place only after the occupying forces withdrew, only after the so - called liberation. All the graves were built after the war. It was not until 1946 in Slovenska Bistrica. The Dachov trials were held in 1948 and 1949. Like any revolution, our throats are our own children. The postwar and still little - known Styria tragedy is also instructive. In 1946, 1947, Croatia occupied Slovenia's territory with 9 villages, from Strigova to Železna Gora, with most of Slovenia's indigenous population. In 1947, more than 30 Slovenes and Slovenes of Strigova were horribly tortured and killed. What do these killings have to do with World War II, the war between the Axis forces and the Allies? Distasteful, mocking sounds as if these victims of the 1946 and later became victims of the war. However, if such postwar cemeteries were to be regulated by law, only the name of the cemetery of the victims of the revolution would be possible for such cases. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, it is true, as we are reminded by the President of the State of Milan Kučan, that all the dead have the right to peace, memory and fundamental human respect. I would just add the question: To what memory and to what respect? They have the right to remember under what circumstances their opposition to the revolution was born, the right to respect their deep national consciousness. These victims have the right to our recognition that they are unjustifiable and senseless victims of the revolution. That and that's all our amendment on the graves of the victims of the revolution wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your word, Mr. Tuckyat. I give the floor to Mrs. Cveti Zalokar Orazem - who is not here at the moment or is the debate cancelled? Any other representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word? Young people's party, please, Mr. Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. The War Cemeteries Act proposed by the Government for second reading will be supported by Members of the Young Slovenia Party, including government amendments and complemented by the Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons Committees. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that the issue of war graves must be definitively solved with the maximum consensus of all parties and we believe that the proposed law on war graves brings this. We expect this law to deal with graves, both soldiers, war-torn and war-torn victims in a comprehensive and non-discriminatory manner. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are confident that the adoption of this law will end 12 years of debate and opposition, and that at the same time this is the only way to maintain a respectful attitude towards the dead and to bury them with dignity. We also expect the adoption of this law to finally end the exploitation of the tragic historical facts of our nation in the daily political gathering of client points, resulting from the redistribution and increase of intolerance among our citizens. The tragic history of our nation should be a reminder to the Slovenians that some mistakes should not be repeated in the future, but not the eternal apple of the conflict and division of Slovenians today, as well as among all the generations of Slovenians in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Stemberger. Does any other parliamentary group wish to give an opinion, otherwise we will conclude this part of the debate? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have different ways of assessing the importance of this law. Some also give him historical significance, which should resolve all open questions once and for all. The others we expect from him a little less. In any case, the law is important. Our desire, too, is to properly settle the issue of silenced or covered graves in order to arrange a decent burial of all the dead in order to care for hidden or silenced graves in order to correct many of the injustices of the past. If, in our view, the content of the law were only this, it would be fundamentally non-problem and adopted by a large consensus. But in addition, this law, and this shows the debate so far on the working body and also so far, is packed with different ideological views. With them and through them, he tries and wants to regulate and resolve much more than the dignified arrangement of silenced graves and the pathetic attitude toward the dead. It wants to assess history, an official reassessment of the role of the warring parties during World War II is expected. Political rehabilitation of the household and political conviction or assessment of the national liberation struggle is expected only or mainly as revolutions. Because of this and because of such issues, there is much more to the law than the debate on articles and only what a specific article means. Some have tried or tried to cover their eyes and ears before these questions and say that any law will be adopted, because then peace will be achieved and reconciliation will be achieved. However, some others may wish to see the serious and objective problems that arise in this law so that today’s decision does not appear unanimous and other consequences of the adoption of this law would later arise. And there's something else about that. We are all involved in this maze of issues and different approaches. The Government, especially the Secretary of State, who, on behalf of the Commission for the Management of Hidden Cemeteries, advocates this law and defends any solution that is written in it, all Members and Members, including those who will remain silent, who will only vote or we will withdraw, and we will not vote. However, I must point out that in this regard, you want or do not want to, the media of public information, which in recent months, like all of us, are also addressing these issues through their own political beliefs. For them, as with us, objectivity is not self-explanatory, but everyone represents his or her own view, including his or her political beliefs, and therefore it is not necessary that the presentation of our debates and the fundamental problems that the law includes and contains be properly presented. I've already heard presentations that today we're going to decide who he is and who's not in charge of arranging the hidden graves. I must say that I will be surprised if this debate is even debated, because after all the discussions I have listened to so far, I have participated in them, and I have read all the words in the magnetograms of my mother's working body, there has been no one, no one, just no one, who would not be able to handle it. Therefore, asking such a question is simply not objective. Indeed, there are different viewpoints about how to handle this. On behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, I say once again, knowing also all the debates that have so far been about this issue in the National Assembly, that we are firmly convinced in the Group of Members and that we want to settle the hidden or silenced graves and these issues, to ensure the responsibility of the State for them, especially because it did not know civilisation, to regulate culturally in many decades. We are against any discriminatory or disrespectful attitude toward anyone who is dead, including the dead who are now lying or killed after the war and are in hidden graves, and that we are united also in condemning post-war beatings, convictions, not regrets, convictions of post-war beatings as acts that have no legal and, in particular, no moral justification, and for which the state is responsible for finally correcting the injustices that have been committed by such acts. In this respect, we are fully united in the United List of Social Democrats and in us and in us there are no differences, and in this part we also fully adopt the objectives of the law. I would like to stress in particular that, with the signatures of Members and Members of the United Nations List, I do not know any other parties and I do not believe that anyone can prove that any amendments and proposals have been tabled to reduce or eliminate these objectives of the law. All the suggestions went solely to a certain precision of the solution, not to settle the silenced and hidden graves or to be disrespectful or offensive to the dead killed in those graves. Indeed, there are divergent views between Members and Members of the United Nations on what concrete solutions are proposed, including some proposed by the Government, including those on which many claim to be cohesive and non-discriminatory, in direct practice. The government wants to, it promises, that by law it will correct past injustices, ensure fair, non-discriminatory and insidious burial arrangements for victims of war violence who have not been able to arrange graves and funerals so far. The government expects the debt of the state to be settled against all those who have been wronged because of the circumstances of war or post-war violence. The government expects that this will provide an important step towards overcoming the differences and injustices of the past. The President of the country, Mr Milan Kučan, also joins in his letter to the Members and Members of Parliament. All these objectives are fully and unitedly supported by the Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats. There are, however, those among us who fear that the stated wishes and objectives are not fully consistent with the concrete solutions in the law, and especially not with the subsequent amendments tabled, including governments that change the concept of the law, as originally defined. I would like to draw attention to some inconsistencies and uncertainties with regard to these solutions. The fundamental problems we see in this regard are as follows. For the first time, the concept of the law has been completely changed to the second reading, including amendments. Many of us can think of better, but it has been changed. The proposed law has 36 articles. Of the 36 articles proposed, the Government has amended virtually all articles except some of the substantively less important articles and is also introducing 17 new articles. In doing so, all substantively, conceptually, valuablely and significantly, all substantively important articles and solutions in the law are changed. In such circumstances, it would be a responsibility for the law to be returned to the first reading. We formally do not propose this because it would be estimated that we do not want to settle grave issues, but surely the procedure would require such a decision and then it would be much more precise to decide what the amendment, what the individual additions mean or not, because today, I would hope to say that many of us will not be fully convinced of what we are and what we have not voted on when each of these solutions is voted on. At the first reading, the government was also tasked with preparing a comparative analysis of the regulation and marking of the graves of the occupying collaborators during World War II. The government has done this task. The position and role of military and semi-military forces were explained or further asked to explain the role of military and semi-military formations in Slovenia, which collaborated with the occupying party. The government has done this task and presented us with solutions in Finland, France, Italy and Norway. Regardless of perhaps different circumstances - I agree that the different circumstances were not entirely identical, yet none of these countries has in this way, as proposed by us, the arranged graves of the employees of the occupier. Here I am consciously using "occupiers" because in my report the government has declared all military or semi-military formations in Slovenia, which have cooperated with the Italian or German occupationists, as well. So far, it has not changed this decision; if that is what it intends, it should say so. I mean, it's a very important change of concept, and it's only right that we take this into account first. Second. I'd like to say my vision, which I claim to be correct. The coalition law has never been harmonized. There have been some harmonisation attempts, which were not completed either in the initial phase until or after the investment. He was prepared, so we were informed later, in particular in agreement between the Secretary of State and some or most of the members of the Commission for the Management of Hidden Cemeteries, and formally accepted by the Government so that it would not be misunderstood. We all know, however, that the government is deciding on many issues and is deeper into some. However, as soon as it was adopted, it raised many issues and different views, both between the civil society organisations concerned, including the National Liberation War Association, which is also one of the civil society organisations which is certainly not included in the Commission for the Management of Hidden Cemeteries, while some of the other civil society organisations which are equally concerned have been involved and have had the opportunity to participate in the development of solutions adopted by the Government. He also opened debates between Members and Members, since at first the Coalition of Slovenia tabled amendments, and later the 28 and 25 Members, but now 23, I do not know how many will be and how will be in the end, but quite a part of the Members wondered whether all the solutions were good or not, whether each of the proposed solutions had been considered to the end. There's something else I'd like to say. I submit with full responsibility that the proposed law is not in line with the declaration adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a comprehensive plan to regulate the graves of mass war massacres and the adoption of the War Cemetery Act. This government statement is substantively explicit and is only linked to postwar killings and silenced graves. That's it. That's it. That's it. With regard to the situation during World War II, the government expressly stresses that it does not wish to re-legitize or delegate historical events. The law itself, according to my opinion, and especially the debate over it, of course, shows something completely different. And so to say that there is perfect consistency at this point, I don't think it's objective in my view. Thirdly, I am afraid that it is right to say that there are doubts based on the content of the proposed solutions and, above all, on the basis of the debate. That the great ambitions and good wishes of the government, how this law will help solve problems and achieve reconciliation, are somewhat pre-optimistic. They may be well - intentioned, but of course, well - intentionedness is not enough when it comes to such serious questions. At this point, I'm going to make the following arguments. Perhaps the debates so far have shown us that the content does not achieve reconciliation many times, but some of the differences that are between us are deepening. There can be no doubt that the claim that the law explicitly regulates only the question of graves, that it is non-ideological, that it does not value that nothing is regulated, is not true. Because if that were true, then the debate could not have been as it had been. Then the fundamental objective could not be to evaluate the historical facts and circumstances in which deaths, killings and killings took place during the war, the unjust, the non-civilisational, but they did. If that were the case, we would simply speak only if the cemetery was arranged in one way or another. I do not want to and will not really talk about this much anymore, because these questions have been identified, I would just like to take into account that, when we evaluate historical facts, the Institute for Recent History in September 1995 has prepared a scientific report on the key characteristics of Slovenian politics in the years 1929-1955. It was prepared together by ten or eleven historians, not politicians, historians. If you want, you can read them later and in this study there is a special chapter The significance of the war in Slovenia 1941-1945, on pages 78 to 80, which also states the following: The significance of the war in Slovenia in the years 1941-1945 was not uniform. Taking into account the essence and overall developments in all Slovenian national territory in the years 1941-1945, the basic features of this period were fascist and Nazi occupation and resistance to occupation. That's what historians think. Furthermore: The anti-occupational resistance and the liberation fight unleashed the great energy of the Slovenians and fought important achievements in the military and other areas, including the anti-fascist coalition. Among the three options that were before the Slovenian society in the crucial year 1941 - immediate or late resistance or a dedicated transfer of occupation, the option of the Communist Party of Slovenia or the Liberation Front of the Slovenian People has been implemented. Finally: In order to prevent developments in the revolutionary direction, the city's anti-revolution camp decided to military-political co-operation with the Italian and then the German occupationists. Therefore, the conflicts between Slovenians in the Ljubljana province since the summer of 1942 can be referred to as civil war in the situation of occupation. The functional cooperation in the province of Ljubljana benefited the invaders, so the German occupation approved it elsewhere. Except perhaps in Gorenjska, such developments did not exceed the quantitative threshold that could mark events as civil war. Therefore, taking into account all Slovenian territory and all wartime, we can mark civil war in Slovenia as a time and localized phenomenon. I tried to be corrected in part of this quote, but it's three pages and you can read them. I quote them solely because of simplifying things or expecting that, I stress, this national assembly, with its political decisions, can change history, I say that it is irresponsible. This must not be done by this State Assembly. No decision we make today, and even three or five years from now, can, in my opinion, cause such consequences. But if anyone thinks today, I will not say that they must not think this, nor that in the end it may not be true that certain circumstances are not enlightened, that the illumination of the new circumstances can also give a number of different, complementary assessments, I respect such an opinion, except by voting us, politicians in the National Assembly. I don't think we should afford that. Some feel that just any solution should be taken for the very reason that there will be peace, that we will get away with it, because at least after a few years and every year later it will be completely irrelevant what has happened and what people think about it. I have to say that I have been convinced that without history there is no nation and that it is completely irrelevant and must never be. I would like to point out that all the solutions and all the answers that have been given so far in relation to specific formulations in the law are not clear. Many of the questions raised by colleagues and colleagues on the working body have been given inconclusive, many times very different answers, very different on the same subject. I have a document, and I can tell you, but I don't want to talk about it in the introduction. In short, the claim was clear because the law was clear; when the answers to the basic questions were asked - so also, say, some of the proposed conclusions - financial consequences, possible consequences on other legislation, the status of some groups - were very different, and to say that the law is legally correct if, on fundamental issues, who has the right to a grave and who has the right to what grave also has the right to this and other inscription, the answer remains completely unclear and the responsible institutions make various statements about this, I must say that in such a case the law is not properly prepared. And finally, let me say two more. Perhaps the concern is exaggerated and I accept this assessment myself, or I would like to argue, but for me, I must say, the solution, as proposed, is the equalization of the status of all the dead, especially the status of the dead during World War II and, we can say, even the partial civil conflict. Whether this equation is legal because it is legal, the political one doesn't bother me at all, but the legal one can later have other consonants - I would like to think about it. I argue that what is least is not impossible because the equalization of the status of the dead should make it normal to compare the circumstances in which they were killed or died, as well as the members of the formations that fought on different sides. The equation between these formations in the military and in the political and national sense can also be made in this regard. This, of course, if so, and the attempts through the amendments are undoubtedly such as the revaluation of the history in force; whether it is true or not, the historians have also declared it right to be what it will be in a year, two, ten, I do not want to claim in advance. And, of course, if that were to happen, then I must say that for me there will be absolutely logical requirements even after the equalization of the political, material rights of all on both sides. Because if this is going to be formally the same position, why not? Please let us consider this in some of the solutions in marriage. If I'm thinking too hard, tell me, but I don't want you to hear and say it, because in a year, two, three, when these things are going to appear -- if they don't, I'll be so much more happy -- "we didn't know, nobody warned us about it." And last, not insignificant, not because of the sowing of fears, but if there is a re-evaluation of the situation of domesticism in Slovenia and in a situation where we would recognise domesticism as, above all, anti-fascist, as anti-revolutional fighters and give them a new role, then, in my opinion, this also means a changed position of foreign visa. If the victims killed after the war, once again, were declared non-civilisational and without legal basis only as an act of revolution, but not in connection with war, then there would also be questions about the visa of certain requirements, which are from Italy and Austria. Let us consider whether we want to resolve some of the issues at home, to revive such a question, and that we will have fewer arguments to defend our view than we have seen in some of the laws that have already been passed. Therefore, it is the wish of Members and Members of the United List to find the most appropriate and good solutions for the dignified early settlement of graves, for the inscriptions above them, for the state to take care of them, that, when we want it and when it is our shared responsibility, we have no ambition to correct history and go to uncertain waters that we do not know where they can bring us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Potch. This was the opinion of the United List of Social Democrats, because I did not mention this earlier. I now give the floor to the representative of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Mrs Cveti Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Party of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the War Cemetery Act by supplementing the governments and by supplementing the Home Committee for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons to the 13th article on inscriptions on the graves of war victims and after the war of extrajudicially executed persons. We believe that such a law would fulfill the debt of the Slovenian state to all those who lost their lives on our soil during and after World War II. In doing so, we would also like to stress the extremely difficult, complex and responsible task of the Commission for the War Cemeteries of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Mr Pershin, who has tried to follow the basic and fundamental purpose of the law by means of its additions made by the Government on the basis of the views of the National Assembly in the first reading, to regulate the issue of marking and maintenance of graves. All the graves from that period. In this regard, in the LDS, we believe that the War Cemetery Act cannot and does not intend to deal with the ideological evaluation of victims of war and post-war killings, but in a civilised way, to regulate the non-discriminatory attitude of all victims of those times in a pietically and fundamentally manner. They are the same, they are equal in their finality, and they must not be shared and declared to be such or otherwise by death. It is therefore right that there are no ideological or valuable judgments on the marks that the state places on and after. Thus, the country and the country of all citizens and citizens, and as a state of the Slovenian people, will have a dignified and fivefold mark the memory of all those who were its sons, as well as all those who fell on its soil. In our view, the proposer has tried not to include values, historical facts and ideological definitions in the law, since they can be subject to professions, historical sciences and research into a number of documents from that period. Of course, such a design did not fulfill everyone’s expectations. Many wanted and expected the law to rewrote history, to pass judgments of value, and perhaps even to revalue and rehabilitate certain acts and definitions of that time. It's not a history-writing law, it's a law about a decent burial of the dead. This is a matter of equal status and equal treatment for all victims, not the same status of their actions in time of life. The law cannot morally and materially rehabilitate anyone. What you, as a Parliament, are most of us, the multitude of those who daily follow the newly discovered graves and graves, especially after the war exterminated and slain, is what they expect the state to mark graves, take care of them five times, identify the dead with their name and surname, and make its contribution to national reconciliation. The War Cemetery Act will not be able and does not intend to close this chapter of Slovenian history. If I say very trivially, the marriage will not talk about why and how someone died and came to the grave, but how such a grave will be cared for. Those who expect more and more from the law therefore do not think too often about the dead, about the graves, about the pieta, but speculatively expect the law on the living and want rehabilitation through the side door, for example. Domesticism, the grading of the national liberation fight, which is supposed to be exclusively equal to revolution and revolutionary violence, and perhaps even expect material compensation at the final stage. In doing so, we want a clear answer in the LDS and a clear position of the government that the law does not solve or by defining the cemetery does not raise the issue of status and possible, in particular financial consequences by applying and enforcing rights in other laws. Therefore, we have also proposed to the Committee that, until the third hearing, the Government should submit an assessment of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of this law and that it should prepare a legal expertise on the status of the armed forces, in particular with regard to the content of Article 2 of the draft law defining military graves as the burial ground of military personnel. We have not received a precise and clear answer at the committee meeting on the status of the domestic armed forces or auxiliary police forces, which is crucial and very important in relation to the question of which group these graves are included in the law. The fact is that in reviewing the situation and comparative analysis with European countries, the graves of the employees of the occupation do not have the status of military graves and the state does not care about them. However, it is also true that such graves were not covered, silenced, or even destroyed in these lands. We have therefore decided in the LDS that it is moral and fair for the Slovenian State to act differently in this case, precisely because of the non-civilisational, decades-long behaviour of the State, to correct the injustice and, however, to properly mark such graves and care for them. Of course, we want an accurate and clear answer that such care exclusively for graves does not mean and does not open up any other rights and benefits for potential collaborators. In the LDS we also considered that the appropriate text of the consecrated nature of the graves referred to in Article 4 was "died as victims of post-war violence" and not "died as victims of war and revolution" in the graves. Our view is that it is crucial that the law clearly defines how these victims were killed. I quote: "In contravention of the principles and rules of the rule of law, after conviction and after an out-of-court procedure executed by the authorities and representatives of the then authority in the territory of Slovenia". We believe that the text referring to the revolution would not lead to further reconciliation, but rather to the further deepening of the fateful inter-war division of the Slovenians. At the same time, we need to bear in mind the fact that we understand the revolution differently that the different definitions of this professional but in international legitimate law are present. On the basis of this diversity, of course, there are also very different connotations to the different understanding and evaluation of the revolution. The revolution represents a radical change in social, political, social and economic relations. Such changes may be criminal for certain groups. It is also true that they may not always be in certain segments and do not always have negative connotations. The essence of the revolution is not the use of violence, although it is usually an accompanying phenomenon, but it is even less acceptable that in the constellation of understanding of the time and space of national liberation and resistance to the occupying power, we would have exclusively reduced to revolution, which we have heard so far in some debates. Let me reiterate this: postwar killings must certainly be condemned as unlawful acts. It is necessary to ensure that these actions are investigated and clarified in order to determine who ordered the killings. These orders are an illegal and illegal act, perhaps even a crime for which the one who has been ordered and proportionately committed must be held accountable. But let the profession, historical science, the prosecution, the courts, and so on. It is also because of the different interpretations and evaluations of the concept of revolution that we propose to avoid the issue of marking and caring for graves in the war graves law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to quote in the end Mrs Hribar's phrase, which has worked extremely hard to prepare this law. He says: "Conclusion is based on a fivefold attitude towards the dead, an equivalent memory of marking and grave, before the state and before the law, all the dead must be equal." Therefore, I urge you all to act in a sober and responsible manner and to uphold the law. The fifth is the foundation of civilization, but not only the grave, but also the right to an equivalent memory. That is why we must all work together and take a new, further step towards bringing the Slovenian nation together. It's not the last step, it's not the first, but it's important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u53	Thank you, too, for your opinion. I also give the floor to the debater, the representative of the Slovenian National Party, to Mr Saš Pečet.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u54	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Thank you for your word. The bill, which the National Assembly has been meeting for quite some time and with which the media and the so-called wider Slovenian public have been meeting for quite some time, has lost its purpose, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment. This is what the lion's share has helped us who are sitting here today, and all those who are trying to fill the media space in this way, that is, those who are somehow dependent on them and us on them. We have done what we should not have done today on a subject like this. According to my own assessment, we have completely destroyed the dignity and values recognised by the whole world in the context of World War II. I believe some of us are proud of that. I didn't do it myself. Even more, I find it extremely offensive by individual speakers, but this is, of course, their legitimate right to use this language, this national assembly to give its truth, in my opinion false truth, about the period of World War II in Slovenia and Yugoslavia. However, if you so wish, we will not participate in this in the Slovenian National Party, so our introductory explanation will not be long. It will be the same as we planned in the basics, where in the clean, the basics assessment itself did not make statements to the public. We didn't try to transform matter into media matter. The basic assessment or the basic sin of the bill is, in our opinion, somehow related to Article 4. If we are talking about war graves, this should be our estimate of war graves, dating from the beginning to the end of the war. It's a dot and it's over. We're talking military graves. The law has had a lot of exploitation. The speakers in front of me were talking about honesty, about honest purpose, about wisdom, about transparency, about history and all that. How can we talk about wisdom, honesty, transparency and here let Mr Anderlič allow me to use his quote, but when we had the opportunity, even yesterday in this Chamber, to listen in essence to the Belogardistic manifesto when we had the opportunity yesterday in this Chamber, I do not know for what purpose, to listen to things that would be better to be partially forgotten, not completely. Because we all have to learn something from those things. All 90 of us are Members, and all of us are essentially living in our area. There is no fair approach to this matter in this National Assembly. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the amendments of the Group of Members with the first signed by Mrs Danico Simšič. As far as supporting this law is concerned, we will support it if the law itself does not duplicate history through the amendments. The history that we should be proud of in this national assembly and in this country. And not for the price of media repression is willing to sell it. According to my assessment, the purpose of the law should be one and only one, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party. Death and memory, I live in a reminder. And it should be that reminder that we have the law to set up war graves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Pache. This would conclude this part of the debate. Any other non-commissioned members of the group want a word? If not, thank you very much. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. I call on all Members and Members who are outside the Chamber to join us because we will move on to a decision. I have put forward a proposal for a decision and we will vote on it. We're voting. There are too few of us in the Chamber, so I once again urge all Members and Members to come to the Chamber, as well as those who are in the Chamber to vote. We will repeat the vote. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 44 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 15.5.2002, which you all received with the material. I am putting to the debate 1st Article and 3 amendments to Article 1. Anybody want a word? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Our parliamentary group, together with the Social Democratic Party, proposes to amend Article 1 in such a way that this law is governed by military graves, the graves of war victims and the graves of the victims of the revolution in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. For these reasons, the New Slovenia Group also stated that the law would be clear in order to cover all victims, i.e. wars and wars, we believe that this is necessary and that victims should be given the right address. This must be defined in such a way that there is no confusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u57	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Potts, then Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I would not refer to the amendment of the Socialist Party and New Slovenia's Group of Members, because this amendment is legitimate on its own, but I would point out that, in my opinion, the lack of attention given to the parent working body when it supported or drafted the amendment to Article 1. In fact, the words "and postwar events" are added after the word "war" in Article 1, paragraph 1. I'm sure that's true in principle. It's true. It's also about post-war events. However, ladies and gentlemen, when you link this amendment to the amendment of the same committee to Article 4, which states that the word "war" is deleted in the subtitle, you will find that the postwar events in Slovenia were related to the war. I argue that this is not true and that such a solution should not be adopted. Wartime events, at least directly linked to postwar killings, but the vast majority of postwar killings were war-related, were war-related. And then the speech was also on the work body, but such an amendment was adopted, and unfortunately the government did not oppose it, although it substantially changes the concept of the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I think this amendment or this article is important, because it will somehow presuppose the development of the whole adoption of the law. You spoke, my dear colleagues, many of you very nicely, but still in some language, in some formulations that I cannot accept. You're still talking about black-and-white techniques, collaborators, liberators, freedom fighters. So there's no misunderstanding, I come from the partisan family myself. I was a year old when my father fell into partisans. But my basic principle is justice and truthfulness. And in these languages, of course, you also compare international comparisons, international analyses, of course those you have asked for, and of course you have only taken into account Western countries where there was no revolution. Why was it not asked about comparisons with Stalin, Paul Pott, and others in lands where Communist terror reigned and left behind mass graves? Why didn't you look for a comparison? Because it wasn't just the struggle against the invader with us. There was something else. Now you want to keep this other side of the story quiet in this law. That's a different dimension. 10 years after the independence of Slovenia. I believe that the adoption of our amendment, that is to say, was also a revolution, that there were graves, not only war violence, war fighting, bombings and the like, but also graves due to revolution, revolutionary violence. And this is the acceptance of this amendment as a test of our truthfulness. And a test of whether or not we are going to respect the principle of pieta to the dead. Look, there are many indications that there is still revolutionary violence in Slovenia. Maybe in a different way. In spirit, in understanding, in conversation. There is still the belief that the winner has unshakable power over life and death. And that it was a sign of heroism to kill prisoners, whether it was the postwar killings of the patriots or the killing of an Austrian policeman who was kneeling in the snow in Dražgoš and pleading, "Hilfe, hilfe!" Last year, in Cerklja, Gorenjska, at the central memorial of the day of the dead, the students there wanted to recite the song by Francet Balantič, and during the recitation, the old fighter turned off the microphone, and the representative of the NIB Fighter Federation, Franz Leskovec, was able to witness the students and parents without shame, he, Balantič, had already received what he was looking for. That was last year. Not 50 years ago. France Balantič was a student, a poet who was in a partisan attack on Graham in 1943 together [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u61	Mr. Tuckyat, please, if you focus on the amendment itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u62	Yeah, okay. I want to base the importance of the amendment, the importance of recognizing the revolution and introducing the concept of revolution, the victims of revolutionary violence. Look, in a way, it still scares the spirit of revolution, revolutionary violence throughout Slovenia. When Attorney General Zdenka Cerar, after her discovery in Slovenia, invited the inhabitants to speak, he told me from some place how to speak, but when the District Attorney is the daughter of the largest liquidator in our town, which still has great power and influence. Edward Kocbek, who had been a member of the Liberation Front since the beginning, quoted him and knew the Liberation Front until the visit, replied in 1975, to the question of what it would be necessary to do about the unheard of fate of the patriots, "We must, above all, raise it from denial to public recognition. We must lift it up from a oppressed and crippled consciousness into a clear and courageous consciousness. Responsible people need to explain to us how a liberating victory could turn itself into such a loathsome fear of the enemy. They need to tell us how responsibility to history can separate from responsibility to man. It is therefore a public confession of guilt concerning all of us. For so long, we will not get rid of persecution and the sea until we publicly confess our great guilt. Without this action, Slovenians will never enter the clear and clear atmosphere of the future." That's it, Kocbek. It's not the purpose of this law and this amendment to do this to me. The goal is to take the first step towards minimum justice and allow the recognition that these mass victims, who have nothing to do with war, have not jumped themselves into the nomadic abyss, but are victims of some kind of violence. What kind of violence I'm asking you. However, the law must say what kind of violence. Did 12,000 of them die from bar fights? These were victims, respected as you wish, of communist violence, of totalitarian regime, we believe, of the most fair title, of revolutionary violence. Nothing else wants our amendment. It is, as I say, extremely important and therefore worth talking about this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer signed up for the replica. It's a replica of Mr. Potsch's performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to rephrase Mr Ptræ for a moment when he says that these victims are not completely outside the context of the war. Or so he says. As a rule, most of them are war-related victims. If we accept such a dictatorship of law, where it will be in the majority, then there remains something that is not the majority. And that'll be out of the question. As a recognized lawyer, I would advise you to find solutions for those who are not mostly associated with war and to give them another name. Why am I saying this? Of course, I agree, I believe that the revolution, regardless of what I was taught in school, ended in 1945. Next, we can talk about a totalitarian system, the result of which was also the victims. We wrote that term in the law. To cover what the concept of war cannot cover. Because they had to introduce this third term. For understanding and for a law that can serve well, that is sufficient, but I do not agree with you that there are victims who are mostly war-related and can be identified as victims of war. What about the rest of it? That's what I'd like to ask you. Where do you have the solution for this remainder from the point of view of the consistency of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u65	Thank you. The replica has Mrs. Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u66	I mean, sir, we could ask the institute of recent history, which, I think, is most meroded as an expert body, unburdened with ideological or other assumptions that are here today and yesterday, are very much present. This institute, which carries out a census of victims of Slovenian people in World War II, clearly responds with statistics and at the same time with definitions which are at present at issue in this National Assembly. It says that in Slovenia there were almost 64,500 victims in World War II and categorizes them. Among the victims were partisan fighters, of whom 21,800 were civilians, of whom nearly 20,000 were killed in the war by members of the military formations of the anti-partisan camp. These were 13,100. Then, according to the number of victims, the anti-partisan camp civilians, 3,410 of them, the military personnel of the anti-partisan camp, 3,380, and the mobilizers of the occupying army, 2,100 of them, are about. And on this list of such categorizations within the task of describing the victims of World War II, there are also extrajudicially executed civilians after the war, which is 615 and 98 Slovenes who have fallen in various European resistance movements. So much for the definition, which, I think, with the government amendment, is the amendment under number three, as summarized in the Military Cemetery Dictionary, which covers the fall in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in battle, as a victim of war in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the most general and, I think, also the most appropriate marking for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u67	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Podobnik, who has taken the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u68	Thank you very much. No, I wanted to briefly replicate my colleague Potræ, and also after my colleague Shirce's performance, I would like to say the following that I would support the government's amendment, which is a good amendment, as well as the amendment proposed by the committee to add the words 'and post-war events', and I think it makes sense that the government supports it. It is a fact, and we have just heard data that groups of post-war civilians and others who were not involved in any interwar events. That is why the solution to the amendment, as proposed by the Committee and supported by the government, is correct and I will therefore support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. And Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Well, that's not exactly my theme, so I didn't answer it, but when a person listens to me like this, and before I make my decision, even though we put this in, I would still ask Mrs. Shirco whether these 500 people were found in Slovenian Bistrica a few months ago, or whether they're included in that number 600, because I don't know. [[...]] It was mentioned that after the war this institution dealt with 600 extrajudicial beatings, and I wonder if the 500, about 500, have been discovered so far, recently, in Slovenia's Bistrica, here included. Not to mention the possibles, where there's only talk that they could be, but the court won't let it go. However, if I understand correctly, probably citizens who were not then citizens, I do not know, in Slovenia, for example, were not taken into account at all, so as not to mention these tank ditches in Maribor. I'm just wondering, by the way, if these 500 people in Slovenian Bistrica are included in the number 600. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Petan. The replica has Mrs. Majda Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I am reporting to the replica to challenge Dr. Cuckati's argument for the amendment to the amendment in the part where he was talking about Frances Balantic and how the word was stopped. In quite a few cases, it has been possible to hear arguments growing from the current and, above all, from past experience with the school system. The history Kocbek called in a song called History, the blinded unrest of mankind, which goes even past people on earth and past God in heaven, is often a personal interpretation of things. But it is very dangerous when we want to introduce such a personal interpretation into marriage solutions. And if one of the participants in an event has reacted as he did, this cannot contest the fact that France Balantič's school curricula dealt with the same, one case of songs as Karel Destovnik Kajuh and is the second poet from the time of NOB, John Hribovšek was also proposed for consideration in the curricula. Current generations will be able to create their relationship to history and events with different learning content than we have created. But this is an argument for an amendment, and I certainly cannot agree with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Petty Officer has a replica of Mrs Majde's performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also have a question, given the numbers that Mrs Shirca said, whether there may be groups in there, such as the Shercero Brigade, which Milan Guček is talking about, the victims, 18 partisans who were killed by Vosovci, for example. This is what you have written in these books. It's not in any black book or anything. Or in the book by France Strlett Tomšič's brigade, where he says that death sentences have been waged in the troops. Compared to the convictions, the large Italian offensive was null and void. Look, it's not some black book or a Home Defense book. It's a book by Franci Strle, Tomšič's Brigade 1942, page 302. It's just these numbers. Then, after all, we will also have to ask ourselves about the poet Karl Destovnik Kajuh and also about the monument that Karel Destovnik Kajuh will fall under which bullet Karel Destovnik Kajuh will have to look at what the statements of the former Chief of Staff Protection of the 14th Division say. And countless such cases. Therefore, the information they are is, of course, very relative. According to official data, as many as the Germans and the Italians fell, those occupation forces recorded some less than 1,000 killed in four years. It does not now count among the fallen occupying soldiers those who were killed after May 9th, but until the end, to those periods that we do not know for ourselves, when they were closed and for which we will also have to arrange graves. And these may be those who were not even involved in the war itself. For they became captives, who then lived for a while. Then, of course, the groups were closed, in one way or another, because they did not agree to the revolution in the 1950s. Dachav processes, too. I don't know how many Dachav processes themselves have had contact with the war. That's why it's the term. In most cases, it is covered by this concept, as mentioned by Mr Potrč, in most cases. What about what's not the majority? To that end, we must find a solution in the law, so that there is no dispute, that there will be no problem. That's our obligation. That this law will not cause problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u76	Mr Petty Officer, I am in favour of a precise definition, but I would very much doubt that you are. Because it is my fault that, when I say after most, it is imprecise, you suggest that, at least according to the information sent to us by Dr. Jasna Fischer, and by which it is said that after the war, 13.100 were exterminated - I say, in connection with the war - and that there were extrajudicially executed civilians - that I cannot say for sure whether who was involved in the war, who could not, even that many were not associated with the war - but that now your formulation that everything was deleted with the war was based on it. Would this one be more accurate than the one I warned you about? Because that's what your amendment says.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u77	Thank you. There's also a replica of Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u78	Well, first the replica of the poet Balantich or the Balantich. I didn't criticize the school system in anything. I am pleased that the school books also show orchards of a more objective approach to history, which, of course, will lead to overstatement, Mr Potrč, much more in our history, to a clearer picture. I only hope that it will not be necessary to wait for these new generations to come to this Parliament to have a better sense of justice on this issue. On the other hand, I would like to refer to Mr Podobnik, who supported the government's amendment, "and post-war beatings". "And postwar events." What events, Mr. Sponik, the government thinks so, I don't know. Are these bar fights, or are they car accidents or something? We just want to give these postwar events a name. I guess we're not so immature, so phobic before I'm talking about revolutionary violence. Yes, for God's sake, but it was revolutionary violence. I don't know what kind of fear the palate fear is against that title. This is really something immature in this national council.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, and then Mr. Kelemina, you have the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Respectable all together! I would like to see the business order respected in the National Assembly, if that is the case, if we are already at it. I would like to comment on the amendment to Article 1. In fact, when I look at these documents, I see that perhaps the real proposal defined by the government proposal is not sufficiently precise. He's only talking about some definition of military graves. My assessment is that all of these are not just war graves, but there are other graves as well. I understand the concept of war graves of those who were created during a period of war, but not all other graves. I also think, although I really have to say that I did not live in those times, I was not present and almost not allow myself to judge such or other history, I can only read one and the other things, but I am very interested in getting to know one and the other, and I know that there have been horrors and horrors on both sides. Now, what's real is I just don't hope to give my judgment, because whatever I say, I'm going to do wrong to one or the other, that's a fact. However, as a distant observer of all these events, let's say it would have been written as proposed by the Social Democratic Party and NSI, because the civil war in Slovenia was. Look, here I have an interview from Mr. Janez Stanovnik from a newspaper where he said the definition of civil war, and we all knew that, and we all know, "The Civil War is then," I quote, "when the citizens of the same country are fighting." This also happened during the war itself, but even worse after the war, when only one formation actually carried out a genocide, or whatever it was called, over the other part of the citizens of the same country, even the same nation. Where are the reasons for all of this, some of you are overly generalizing certain things. I'm going to say mine, but it's totally unrelated, but even though you won't think I'm any kind of agent in collaborationism or anything. My grandfather, for example, was a Maistrov fighter, my father was also a partisan, otherwise he fought in Serbia, so he has no connection with these matters, thank God, and we were not affected in any way. That's what I have to say. At least not far around me. However, serious things have happened, and the question is, where have these sources been? Look, Mr. Stanovnik said this: "It hurts when executions are attributed to the partisan war." Let's just say I agree with that. That's not true. In 1942, partisans experienced many regrettable events. There was a lot of execution at the time, and they indirectly influenced the formation of a white guard. This is also what Mr Cukjat warned that already in 1942 there was a lot of regret about the valuable events that led to all these contradictions and so on. In short, my assessment is that when we write down such a dictatorship as the Social Democratic Party suggests, we will not harm anyone in any way if we really mean what you've all said, that you are limiting yourself and hindering yourself from ideological evaluation, re-evaluation and so on. You said all of that, although in fact you produced it in some way in your discussions. First you warned me you wouldn't, then you did. Let's leave, I don't want to open and deepen these things now, but still, my belief as some distant, neutral observer is that it can't harm in any way some of the historical facts or transformations or maybe re-evaluation of the historical events that have been. That is why I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Kelemina. Just Bevk. Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I would like to explain or argue with Mr Drobník, who has very much in mind the number 200,000 without the judgment of the slain people in Slovenia. World War II was considered in the territory of the former Yugoslavia to be approximately 1,700,000 victims, but later it turned out that there was also a demographic deficit in that number. In the mid-60s, historians found that the victim was 1,027.000 in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, of which 447,000 were killed and 559,000 injured. The figures previously cited by colleague Majda Širc are from a partial survey report carried out by the Institute for Recent History for three years and received by the National Assembly. He was sent by the Institute to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Borut Pahor, on 9 April this year. This research is called the Second World War Victim and is due to it in Slovenia. This study covers those who lived in Slovenian territory in 1941 and then died in II. World War II or because of it. In this study, as a colleague of Shircheva said, 64,448 victims, 21,800 partisan fighters, 19,800 civilians, 13,100 members of the military formations of the partisan camp, 3,410 anti-partisan camp civilians, 3,380 military personnel of the anti-partisan camp, and 2,169 mobilizers of the occupying army. As historians continue this study for at least three years, they estimate that this number can increase by tens of thousands of victims from different groups. If I go back to this number 200,000. The numbers of all the other slain who, after the end of the war on their escape from the Balkans, have been found in Slovenian territory, and I think today can only be speculated on for various political needs. It may be possible, I say, but it is not necessary, to respond only to a similar study, as has now been done by Slovenian historians, who have captured all those who lived in Slovenian territory in 1941 and then died in World War II or because of it. For all the other victims who were after the war, there will be a need to do the same research in this territory as for this type of victim, so it is not right to manipulate the number of 200,000 victims in Slovenian territory.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u83	Thank you. And a replica of Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. I would be very happy if we could finally get the data, the actual data on these victims. Of course, we've been learning history, and now we find that those numbers aren't real. Look at just one example of the drag battle, the number of Germans killed. 1500, 1,000, 500, the end is 26. I'd really like to see this data come through. Data are valid, the ones I said earlier, slightly less than 1,000 dead occupying armies, namely Germans and Italians. That's true. Everything else, of course, is an estimate. I made that grade, too. This group of historians is really doing this analysis. However, they work on a section of Slovenian territory and their inhabitants. But no one knows very well, no one knows how many were actually killed by those who retreated from the Soviet Union army, united, of course, with Communist partisan fighters. Of course, that's not clear. Therefore, it may be that these investigations give information, perhaps even digging up, even though I am not impressed with how many of these victims really are. I don't want to raise this either, but to politicize, I just want to give a dimension to the seriousness of the problem. Why the cemetery arrangements? I am of the opinion that there would be two or three skeletons and whenever there are graves that do not even make sense to mark them, it is dignified and pietically arranged in such a place. But that's always going to happen. You can't get good resources from the archives for these conditions, because the commands were mostly oral, they weren't even coordinated, they weren't all from the top. There's been a lot of paybacks at the level of a smaller territory. How many of these were members of other armies, civilians, from other former republics of Yugoslavia - this is not exactly known. It would be hard to tell. Even if all these skeletons, as we can put it, were discovered, they wouldn't know. You know, Drava was bleeding because the body was throwing in Drava. It's going to be hard to figure out, and I don't think it's important in this case that we have the exact numbers. I leave it to historians and serious historians. To those who didn't have a CK in front of them, if possible. However, I would like to see that such research is being carried out and that international experts are working. Let's give it a rest. I mentioned this number as an evaluation, and I didn't say it was. Only then will we find out. And for this law, this number itself is not important. That's why I relied on the documents of the Human Revolution, as you know, my lecture was a long time ago, and I used the documents of the Human Revolution, which is what's written in there. That's the way it is. I told you, I'm not gonna draw on some books you don't trust. I'm just the ones you trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u85	Thank you. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u86	Mr Vice President, first of all, thank you for your word. I've been waiting for the replica to pass, and if it's hard to give you a word, tell me, I won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u87	No, no, no. I'm sorry if I didn't notice you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u88	You're so scared, what I'm about to say. I'll just say something positive in support of the amendment to the government's amendment by the board. The government, with its amendment, amends the article in its entirety. And this first article is some kind of reference to the whole concept and context of the law. Speak first paragraph. This law regulates protection. Look, the protection of military graves. This protection is also linked further in the law of the definition of who is responsible for this protection, who also provides financial protection for war graves. Then the second paragraph identifies which war graves they are, that they are military graves, and that they are tombs according to article 2 of the uniformed persons, that they are the graves of the victims of the war. Then we wondered what could happen to the graves if we just took Slovenska Bistrica. How do you define them? Military graves aren't somehow. The cemetery of war victims, not again. The issue of Dachav processes is also raised here. That is why it was very reasonable and the government also supports the amendment of the committee to mention the amendment to the amendment, that it is also the graves of postwar events. Whether the definition of a postwar event is substantive enough or not, I will not go into it. It could be another name for me, given the contents of these events. But I do know that if we want to maintain the consistency of the law and follow the further concept of the law, this must be recorded in Article 1. And it's quite consistent. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment to the committee's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mr. Petty Officer has also responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u90	Just for a little while. Mr Brenčič, postwar events are all events that have taken place from 15.5. to today. This event that's in here, too, is an event. This term is universal and is empty to determine. It doesn't mean anything. Postwar events are all events. I don't know what else to say. But don't make a fool out of it. It's not the right expression.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u91	Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I listened with interest to this debate, the discussion. And it seems to me that if there were some basic things we could talk about, there would be no whole debate. One of these shall be the title of this Article. I can't get past the fact that we're all avoiding the word revolution. It is a puzzle to me, for on the one hand we say that we must not overestimate history, and on the other hand we value it differently. If seven books were written on the revolution of the Slovenian people, the latter, of course, has a different title. I think it's because of the political needs. Yeah, how can we avoid the notion of revolution? Secondly, I think that this stain, which has been lying in Slovenia for more than half a century, needs to be removed and I think the government wants it in its own way. By not mentioning certain things, not saying how these victims will be buried and so on, he says that he does not want to do any political qualifications and so on, it is clear that all of this goes to the qualification of changing history. Look, one thing that really bothers me about the whole treatment is this. The first draft of the law was sent to the National Assembly more than two years ago, after which he rested four years after [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u93	Mr Bernick, we have a debate on articles and amendments, please, if you focus on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u94	I want to explain why this is so reasoned. So far, it looks like you haven't had this problem, but you're just gonna have to put up with me. Well, the government is sending this law now that the first hearing was done two years ago. In this time of year, many things have happened. It also happened that the President of the Republic wrote in April and that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u95	Mr Bernik, the content of the amendment is now under discussion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u96	Yeah, okay, I'm coming to that. In November last year, the Prime Minister, or on behalf of the government, also wrote about this matter and set out his position on the problem of silent graves. Some things should be clarified. So we can't, say, even answer the Secretary of State, who was citing different data, such as that the government was following what other countries were doing after World War II, that they were private graves and so on, at the expense of relatives and so on. Even Dr. Hribar on the board said that this comparison was not appropriate, for there was no revolution elsewhere. Well, if that is the case and we avoid the word revolution, but we want to follow up on some cases that are not at all in line with our situation, then we will go with this address, which says nothing more than that all the people who were killed after the war were connected to the war. Of course he does. But our killings, the exterminations, were after World War II, when the whole world worked, except for Japan and that area, so one would think that the government would come to terms with this fact and also call it this law. Another interesting thing, and this address well shows, is that the government says that this bill is of a technical nature. Technical nature to bury some people, but nothing else is mentioned about them. By this, this address covers the fact of our revolution and the criminal killings after World War II. Look, this also caused the probably inaction of the state authorities. If we are now talking about the graves of war, then there is no commission here that was established by the government many years ago, although nothing has moved, as far as this is concerned, then the State Prosecutor's Office is in total peace, although there was a lot of talk about what will happen when the graves in Slovenia were discovered. But nothing happened. Even the fact that there was some debate at the prosecution's office and then the conclusion that all the people who had been killed after the war were not soldiers, that they were just civilians, that the crime of the pope to this concept was not old enough. It seems to me that some other articles will need to draw attention to the perfidious way in which the government has dealt with this law. This marriage is not enough, in fact, not enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u97	Mr Bernik, we have concluded the general debate. Please, if you just focus on the amendment to the first article.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u98	I'm talking about the amendment all the time. I'm just explaining it. I'll call you next time. But since we are now in that age when the post-war killings began many years ago, I would ask you, Mr President, to perhaps order one minute of silence, to remember these victims, and to at least show our pieta, which is so much talk, to the people who are dead, have been liquidated, but now we really don't know how to show these piettes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Do I give a word to Replic? [[...]] You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to conclude that your first meeting has fallen into a rather ungrateful time and an extremely difficult subject. I hope that our Members and Members will be able to help you, at least by being right in our actions and actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u102	But you probably also need additional help in measuring time, because the colleague who spoke before me is confidently overstepping time. For he was fortunate that the hour was not glass. I will now discuss how much and what I will vote on the amendments to Article 1. Here are two amendments and one amendment to the amendment. I'll support the government's amendment. Why? Because it explains exactly what is meant to be in this law. At the same time, I will also use these few moments that I have at my disposal to say that I am increasingly sorry, in fact, that before the start of the decision on the amendments, either the parliamentary group or a group of ten Members, even at the cost of terrible criticism, we would not want to settle this issue, to propose once again the general treatment and rejection of this law and to propose a law bearing the title of the law on silenced graves, because this is the purpose of the regulation. This is also the text of Article 1 and the amendment by the Government. It's about keeping quiet graves or military or civilian. Therefore, I find it incorrect from colleagues who are using the debates on this law and these articles for accounting with history, for accounting with partisanism, to say, on the other hand, some could be charged with national treason, with collaboration, with sending people to the camp and so on. In short, to finish, I will support the amendment of the government, which has the number three. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u103	Thank you, Mrs Simsich. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u104	Thank you very much. In this debate, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Mr Potec's comment or warning is in some sense genuine. The government has supported this amendment to the government's amendment because it has calculated this, and postwar events, for example, to cover those graves that have been created by a well-known, war-related nature. However, the Government did not support that amendment under Article 4. I am warning this because that war release in that subtitle would actually mean exactly what Mr Ptræ said. All of a sudden, they would turn all the wars into those that had nothing to do with the war, and the government didn't intend to, so you don't have a definition there. I must say that at the time we made relatively confusing decisions on the Committee and we have not always expressed our support or support. But in Article 4, that change was not supported and supported by the government. However, in this context, as the government has supported the amendment to the amendment of the Board's government, only what I said and nothing else would be meant to cover those who were not associated with the war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Danica would only like to see that we are in second reading and that the debate is not limited and they are replicas. I think I've given my word to everyone who's come forward. And Mr. Kelemina. The debate or you have the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I apologize for returning to the floor in the debate on the amendments to Article 1. I just wanted to say that we also move a little bit further, that this might really be another consideration right now, and that by the third reading, if we failed to find a suitable solution today, we would be trying to find a better formulation in the third reading. I would just like to say, without in any way eroding the work of the committee preparing this law, to say that it is reflected in the text itself, which is proposed as an amendment to the amendment, that the matter has not been most carefully prepared and proposed. If you read it, it goes like this: The war graves are under the terms of this law the military graves and graves of the victims of war and postwar events and so on. Twice "in" appears and so on. It's just verbally not the right thing to do. I would even agree with what Mrs Simšič said that instead "and postwar events" could be "silenced graves", for example, a good dictatorship. But more precisely, these things should be defined, as now defined by the Government's amendment. That's a fact. I hope that we will accept the first amendment, if not the first one, and so on, so that at least in the third reading we can complete the matter, if it is of interest. I do not think that the Government's proposal has sufficiently defined these concepts that we are discussing today. Just so much for a comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate on the first article and we are going to take a decision. I must remind you that if the amendment referred to in point 1 to Article 1 is adopted, the amendments to the amendment are irrelevant under point 2 and under point 3 of the amendment. We're voting! We're voting on point one. There are 47 Members and Members present. The vote was 9 to 34. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We vote on the amendment to the amendment under point 2. We're voting! There are 51 Members and Members present. 29 to 19. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 19.]] The amendment was accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under point 3. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the amendment under point 3 has been adopted. We still vote on Article 1 as a whole. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm a little embarrassed that this is the first time I've run a session. The Article has thus been completely amended so that it does not need to be voted on. I am putting Article 2 and the three amendments to Article 2 into the debate. Anybody want a word? Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u108	I don't understand the government amendment to Article 2. In the first paragraph, it says, "Military graves are graves of military personnel" and so on. In the second paragraph, "Military graves are also tombs of foreign army members." Aren't members of foreign armies military? I don't know why two paragraphs. Second question. If military graves are just the graves of military personnel who have fallen into war or died during war because of war events, then I wonder which graves are next. [[I'll just give you two cases.]] . In June 1945, after the war, Matija Maček ordered Dušan Bravničar, then Chief of Ozna in Ljubljana, and his deputy was Franz Popit, and his assistant Vlado Kadunc, to remove the domestic wounded from the Ljubljana hospital. The goalkeeper resisted the Cat, but 150 military domestic wounded still picked up the night; well, they know about where their burial site is. Isn't this a military cemetery? If we accept the government's text and not the text we propose, then this grave is not a military grave. Under all international conventions, however, soldiers or those at the hospital are still wounded. They're soldiers. They haven't been released and they haven't returned to the hospital as civilians, they don't have uniforms, they have hospital clothes -- they're soldiers under all international conventions. Second case. After the war, prisoners from Shentvid were taken to the sea to the Podutisko pit. Since the bodies were decomposing and poisoning the stream running towards Vič, under the command of Mitje Ribičič 62 German prisoners - the soldiers had to dig first and carry the decaying corpses, and then they ended up in their own cemetery. Without knowing where this cemetery is, there may still be a memory of living participants, and this grave will be found. According to the dictatorship proposed by the government, this is not a military grave either. According to international conventions, however, it is a military cemetery. This is why we have proposed an amendment, which states that military graves are also the graves of military persons who were killed in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia during the war or after the war, contrary to the principles and rules of the rule of law. So not just those soldiers who fell in battle during the war, but also those who were executed after the war in contravention of the principles of the rule of law. We believe that if this amendment is not adopted, it can be very embarrassing in relation to international relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Cuckoo. Before that, he spoke to Mr Petty Officer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. In this case, it will not be just German soldiers or patriots or whatever you say, but it will also be for some English soldiers. After May 15, some English soldiers were killed. What will happen in this case? Also this argument by collaborators, the employees of the invader will lose ground here. In this case, we will find ourselves in a strange position toward other nations.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. I give my word to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I'll explain very briefly why two paragraphs. The first paragraph deals with military personnel, not foreign armies, because the graves, military graves, military graves, foreign army personnel, will be protected and regulated in accordance with interstate agreements or agreements with affected countries. That's why it's in a special paragraph. As for your question as to where the possible graves belong, after the war by military personnel, our explanation is that they belong to you in Article 4. I must also say that Article 4 was created as it is, because most of these graves, postwar cemeteries, mixed nature or in such a state will be very difficult to determine, for the first time, whether it is military or civilian graves; and secondly, it will not be possible to precisely distinguish how many and whether other persons are in these graves. That is why we have dedicated a special article to them and, of course, a single starting point. I agree that you can find a completely grave, a cemetery, a military grave, a military person's postwar as a rare and isolated case, but for such small exceptions, we did not foresee special solutions. I'm also saying that it's comparable to some date that says we'll have everything covered by then. There is always one, one, two, 15 who in years after that have experienced a situation that is not covered by law or by other laws. And that's something like that. It is not said, however, that until the third reading we could not have prepared any more precise provisions - and that should also be considered by the parliamentary groups - if we were to show this in the light of the debate that is taking place, this should be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u113	Thank you. There's also a replica of Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u114	I ask you, individual, small groups, how much is that? What will be the definition of being treated as military graves? How many had to be killed?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u115	As for the number, I don't see a problem at all. It's mainly about whether or not this can be established. And if, in Article 4, paragraph 4 of Article 13 goes beyond the identification data. Nothing is impossible or wrong if there were seven English soldiers buried there in a cemetery where it would prove to be military personnel. Below, "Victims of War and Post-war Violence" or as the National Assembly will decide to write. Thus, in this sense, the problem is not so much the case, since the identification information also allows an indication of who is there. In particular, it is a sign of a memorial nature, which should be as suggested by the government or as adopted by the national assembly within the envisaged amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u116	Thank you both. We can conclude this debate under Article 2. We're going to make a decision. We will first decide on the amendment to the amendment under point 1, then on the amendment under point 2. If adopted, the amendment referred to in point 3 is irrelevant because it amends the text of the Article. We vote on point 1, the amendment to the amendment to Article 2. 52 Members and Members present. 14 voted in favour, 36 against. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment to the amendment was not accepted. We vote on the amendment under point 2. We're voting. 52 Members and Members present. 30 votes to 18. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 18.]] The amendment has been adopted and thus a new text of Article 2. Thus, the amendment under point three is irrelevant and the article has also been adopted. I shall make a third article and one amendment to Article 3 for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u117	This third article is interesting. And an amendment. Here the graves of war victims are also regarded as graves of persons who were killed by the authorities of that time prior to World War II because of national, racial, religious, or political affiliation. This is where the notion of war spreads. But it wasn't about totalitarian power, but it was about [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[... ...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] And that's where it's drawn. [[...]] This is an interesting unequal treatment of the same and similar things in marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State took the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u119	I must explain that this solution has also given the applicant a lot of thought and difficulty. However, this solution stems from the position of the National Assembly, which was adopted in the first reading to find a way of classifying among the war graves also fallen members of the Tiger organization and the base victims. This is a direct consequence of that position of this national assembly. Since these were not postwar graves, we could not have classified them in Article 4, nor could we have been able to do so in the second article. I think that the demands of the State Assembly and that position at the time are satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Cuckoo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u121	Thank you. The original basic text in the Rapporteur limits the graves of war victims only to those victims who have the status of victims of war violence under the second law. However, we know that the law on victims of war violence is unjust, for it only acknowledges the sacrifices caused by the invaders or the Quislings, it does not recognize, nor accepts, other victims. The first article of the law to which the basic text refers reads as follows: The victim of war violence is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who has been subjected in war or military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia by acts of violence or forced action by the invader, the aggressor or their associates. So those who were crushed by revolutionary violence during the war, forgive me for using that term again, I do not know better, they are not victims of war violence under this law, and the law does not recognize any ratings. Of course, then their graves, which are quite a few in Slovenia, would not be subject to this law. Also, say, Brezno nad Borovnica, the Crimea Cave and so on. As a result, in this case, I think I have the appropriate government amendment and I support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Since no one else wants to discuss it, we will decide on Article 3 and the amendment. We vote on the amendment to Article 3. There are 52 Members and Members present, 51 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 3 has been amended in its entirety. I shall put Article 4 and the four amendments to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Danica came in first. Mrs. Danica Simsic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to comment on the amendment to Article 4, which is the first to be signed as the amendment to the amendment of the government, which states that in Article 4 of the amendment of the Government, the subtitle of the article in the round is amended to read "the grave of the silent victims of the war and after the war of the dead". However, in order not to read it all together for too long, I would like to say that, in this amendment, it is primarily up to us to deal with what is the fundamental desire and principle of this law, so that the muffled graves are arranged to take care of them, given that they have been banned for a long time, that they are taken care of by the State. This is, in our view, the key and most important thing to do in this amendment. It is clear, however, that the law must also redefinish the status of the graves of persons who have been silenced and not discovered or in certain periods of the previous system, as I have said, even banned. The largest group of people who do not have their graves so far are at the end of military operations and after the end of the war a dead person. The first were representatives of various armies and armed formations who moved towards the Republic of Austria through our territory at the end of World War II or after the official surrender of Nazi Germany. And to shorten, therefore, according to us, the applicants, according to this article, are primarily graves for that other group, these are in the largest number returned from other patriots, exterminated after the end of World War II, as well as for persons killed during World War II, if they do not yet have their graves. That is why we are convinced of this amendment, and we ask for support to accept it, because this would be the most dignified way to include those graves that have been silenced so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u124	Thank you for your discussion. Mr. Run, you want a word? Thank you so much for giving up. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u125	In the previous article, we identified the graves of war victims, namely the graves of civilians who died or were killed during the war due to war events in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Many graves in Slovenia are the graves of civilians who were killed during the war, not because of war events. It's just that if I did it again, I could count 100. Three girls taken from Dobrova at night to the Key to their camp by the Partisans and then the next day after strange events, I called it strange events, killed. What's their grave? What kind of war events were they? It's a strange hoax. A strange attitude towards these victims, to their relatives. The law must also define these cemeteries. I'm not gonna talk about any other graves where there's a few hundred in there. Article 4 is possible. However, Article 4, the government amendment, which is, of course, better than the previous text, states that the graves of war victims are also graves of persons who were opposed to the principles of World War II, and so on, executed by the authorities of that time. But this is about World War II. The address says the Cemetery of War Victims after the War of Dead Persons. So, article 4 speaks only of the victims after the war of the slain, and it releases those civilians who were killed during the war without any connection to the war. This is the first flaw in this article. Another weakness is that we can't get past the cause here again, but if it is contrary to the principles and rules of the rule of law, in many ways this concept is somehow sufficient or better approximate, that it was not about any beatings, but that it was, read between lines, for revolutionary violence. The basic question remains what about the victims of civilians who were killed during the war without war.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. Mr Drobnic has the floor and then Mr Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u127	The dictatorship of the government amendment or the basic text has two shortcomings. First of all, it does not solve the problem mentioned by my colleague Tsukati, revolutionary events during the war, which are by no means possible to place them as victims of war, but can only and only as victims of revolution. We had the opportunity to hear comments that all of these were already taken care of because the family took care of them at the time. Indeed, I must tell you that some graves, graves that were not arranged, were not known where they were killed, and were not allowed or buried by the occupying authorities at that time. At that time, it was a different kind of power. And the second weakness of this is [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] It is very difficult for me to speak, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u128	I ask Members and Members not to disturb the debaters.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u129	I'd really like to ask you here to keep it down, but maybe you'd better play that "millionaire" so you don't bother me if that's what's bothering you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u130	Once again, I ask you to calm down so that the debaters can debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u131	Well, it's also a dictatorship that's problematic, which I've warned you before with a replica of Mr. Ptræ. So, "the tombs of the victims of war are also graves of persons who were in connection with World War II after 15.5.1945" and so on, "destroyed by the authorities and representatives of the then authorities". These executions took place all the way back to 1960, which is what we will see in the discovery of the graves. Yeah, that's right. And what does the 1960 executions have to do with war? Dictation isn't good. There's this problem again. If we were to define and say clearly in Article 1, bob beans, ideologies, because this would not define the victims, and with a negative foregleam, we would only give an indication of which ideology was guilty, we would not point to individuals who did so - that is the essence of such a law - and we will not have a clear picture and we will not pour ourselves pure wine. These are the graves of the victims of the war - kindly please, these are no victims of the war, in the 1950s, until 1960s, inconsistencies. I don't know why we should be running around here. That won't do anybody any good. This is where we lose credibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Žnidaršič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u133	I would like to say very briefly that the applicant has followed the timetable in the sense that he has covered military graves during the war and the graves of civilians during the war in Article 3 and in Article 4 all postwar graves. With this, of course, the proposaler is still convinced today that most of these graves have been created in connection with war, in one way or another, indirectly or directly, but mostly. Thus it is with a dictatorship that has been prepared mainly not to say, to the greatest extent possible, to determine the needs of all the victims of the cemetery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Tiny, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u135	It would be best if, according to the principle of equality, we ensure the same inscription, the same definition: victims of war, to all parties. But we know that's not gonna happen. The very consequence of this marriage will not be the same. For one thing, for another. That's the problem, Mr. Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u136	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Podobnik, who has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. As I have seen the amendment proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague Danica Simšič, I have seen one significant difference between the amendment of the government. The amendment of the Government states that these are the graves of persons who were contrary to the principles and rules of the rule of law after a conviction or after an out-of-court procedure were executed by the authorities or representatives of the then authority in the territory. However, the amendment of colleague Simšič's amendment changes to the fact that the authorities are no longer mentioned, but only representatives of the military party or of the then authorities. Why did you leave out the word "organs" because we know they were executed by organs? This is an essential emphasis that the government has correctly written down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Podobnik. I give my word to Mrs. Danica Simsic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel! This word was released without any special purpose, for power is power and authority has organs. If this question is intended to support the amendment proposed by the body by grading the word "body", then I am prepared, I hope that on behalf of the signatories, this correction will be accepted and this word added. She was not released for any express purpose. When I am speaking, if I may, I would like to point out once again that it would probably be good and meaningful to accept this amendment, because it covers all those victims that have been made during this period, because there is also a lecture of silent graves in the subtitle that we want to arrange and silenced victims of war are also all those persons that some fellow Members of other parliamentary groups have been talking about. If there were no war, these deaths would certainly not have been. We need to make that clear. Whether we want to move or not, the fact of the war and all the war events have caused this, on the one hand and on the other. There have been victims of this kind everywhere. And victims were also silenced everywhere. Mr Podobnik, I also ask you for an answer at the same time, if you think and if you are ready as a parliamentary group to support this amendment and if this is the only obstacle, because you thought that this was maliciously omitted, then we will fix this, because this is still an option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u140	Thank you for the debate. I'd like to ask you whether you want to correct this amendment or if you're going to use this opportunity in your third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u141	No, I'd wait for my colleague's answer to the Sponik, and then I'll answer whether we can fix the amendment or wait for an opportunity in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Do you have a Mr. Parallel replica or a discussion? Replica, I give you the upper hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u143	Vice President, thank you for the replica. Thank you for your answer to my colleague Danica. In my opinion, the replica is very important, essential and substantive and is a terrible background in this difference. The MPs will support the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to engage in debate or replicas, but I would like to explain something that will not be said in such a way that something or much has nothing to do with war. I lived in Maribor, not all the time of the war, but there was another one. It's a war event. Many of the girls, who, I'll say nicely, gave to the Germans, were certain national-conscious people in Maribor simply cut their hair and shaved their head. Then, in many cases, they simply pressed the black hand onto the glass or on the door. Many or some of them killed, but there was no telling who or why, or why, they knew each other because they were adhering to the invaders in one way or another. That's all I wanted to tell you is that there's a lot of things that look unrelated to war, but as a war event, it was directly linked to war. Thank you, but I'm not going to make any calls unless there's something very special to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u146	Thank you, Comrade Kebrich. Mr. Potrč also spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Comrade Janez Podobnik, I agree, the difference between the amendment with the first signed by Mrs Danico Simšič and the government is great. But not on the definition of representatives or authorities, but on the fact that this amendment with the first signed by Danica Simšič wanted to include in a special article all cases of interwar and postwar events or executions, beatings, death and the like, because it went to death. Because when it comes to fighting, then it is death, not murder, to reach the government's amendment, as Mr Žnidaršič explained, it was time-consuming. I have also come forward to explain this for a reason, because when Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem stressed how important it is to define the status once we accept all these amendments, the definition of status will be very insignificant. I would like to point out that I am not working on the illusion of importance later, because in the third reading we will have to change all the articles or many articles. And that's what I'd like to say. I am the point of defining what a soldier is or is not, considered to be where Mr Žnidaršič had difficulty defining clearly. But we all know it was the uniform, it was the carrying of weapons, it was the commanders, unfortunately also the commanders of the occupation authorities who were assigned, it was the organized way, including the payment by the occupation. It was all the attributes that either the police or the military, which I read, did not know, because I was too young, that the police had a completely different function during World War II than today's. And, of course, the then police unit cannot be compared to today's because they were often in the role of armed military units, Vermahta, in roughly the same sense. This is the difference and therefore the existence, depending on one of the other definitions, will also be defined as the concept of the law, because otherwise we will have equality, but what I have previously warned is that in graves people will equally lie at different ends of the definition of political, military during World War II with the possibility or not of such or other later interpretations. However, I would just like to remind myself, but I would be grateful if Mr Secretary of State does, too, to the Government's position on amendment number 3, because he made it clear earlier that the government does not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u148	Thank you, Mr. Potch. Mrs. Zalokar has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We will support the government's amendment. However, I must say that it will be extremely important what the government's response to the Committee in relation to it will be, this is the second decision that the Committee proposes further until the third reading, what this decision will be. What will be the answer if this decision is adopted and what response will be received? Since it has been quite a while since we requested a clear definition of the status of the military on the Committee, I wonder if the government can say more today or if it will have to wait until the third hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u151	So, at that time, we did not order expertise because we received a report from the committee proposing that such a decision be formed at the National Assembly in the context of the second reading. However, we have processed the literature available and found that the Geneva Conventions also recognize the status of prisoners of war to such units. And now it's just a matter of whether the prisoner of war is a soldier or not. However, another problem arose, namely in consultation with lawyers, the idea that it was best for the National Assembly to set up an institution to prepare this expertise. Because if we were to make our own choices, anyone could oppose the authors or the result that individual authors could produce. This is what we think of preparing an expert on this issue at a certain point in time. This moment of final response cannot be given, but it will be very difficult, because one or the other could oppose our choice as to who should give. I myself am inclined to prepare this expertise for a newer history; if the National Assembly has a better proposal, we will absolutely respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. First, I give my word for the replica to Mr. Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u153	Only in order to facilitate the dilemma stated by the speaker would he quote the Slovenian rapporteur of 2 June 1945 [[Quote]] "King, June 1st. These days he arrived from Celovac to Kranj transport 1,550 Belarusians, who were handed over by allied military authorities as prisoners to our authorities. This is another transport within two days, and the forecast is new. There are over 100 officers among the prisoners," and so on and so forth. So in 1945, by then our army of Belogardists, returnees, were treated as regular armies. And first they interrogated the convoy, which they took over, as it says, they interrogated the officers, and then they were all - just as they were doing with the captured army. And we can move around, we can play the law, we can do the commas, the dots, and so on and so on, but these killings are also - these graves are also military graves. If this assembly does not admit it, another congregation or international institutions will eventually admit it. Thank you very much. But so much honesty, I think we owe it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u154	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. Mrs. Zalokar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I must say that I am extremely disturbed by this, I will say, by the playing of the government because I think we are clear enough on the committee - we have been doing the most with this article and I will not say that not all day. I think it's been all day. We have made our dilemmas clear enough, and then, we will say, we have given our support in advance to the government amendment, but with a clear assumption that we want this answer. And I think that if, from then until today, the government, even though it could answer us after a month and a half today, still hasn't even ordered this expertise. I think that the perversion was that you were waiting for our decision, that we would only accept it today, because you knew that this was a key and a turning point but this law was, at this very point, what an official response we did not expect and then we couldn't get it from you, we understood that, but we could get something clearer and more precise in a month and a half. Now, again, you tell us who's going to do this. I don't think that's how we can talk. The government is a sufficient institution and it has the right to know who, and if you've just asked, then this institute is probably appropriate. I think that the institute, which at this moment, as far as historical matters are concerned, research of this period, I think that the National Assembly at this institute has also ordered a history study from the period, I don't know 192 - 1952 and so on. But I think it's now because we didn't know where to order, but half of nothing happened, and today we're back on it. It's not good. As for the debate of my colleague Tsukati, what was written in a newspaper in 1945, I cannot take for granted the historical fact. I think that once in Slovenia this issue needs to be clarified: whether the host army is an army or not and then this law will also be very simple and we will accept it very quickly. And this answer, as far as our parliamentary groups are concerned, will definitely be required until the third hearing, and if the government thinks that we did not mean it, it is only a little wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick called in the replica earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm listening to so many "gum" rumors today that I'm already sick. Indeed, if what Mr State Secretary says is unworthy of a civil servant. The state, the government is now afraid that discussions on this or who will oppose it, so it does not want to bite into this apple. That's the problem. The entire Slovenian history of the past was written according to the regime recipe. Like Hitler’s historians, either fascist or Stalinistic, all of this collapsed. He's not the only one with us. Well, that's all I'm going to say is that we should start over and look for facts, not mythology. And I'm surprised the government doesn't hope to bite that apple. The ex-con, Levstik, was convicted of being a soldier. That is to say, if you were a civilian, the court would not be able to convict him because this crime has already expired. But because he was a soldier, of course, the government was now in some dilemma; how will it solve it, if once the court - or if it was unobjective and so on - was prepared to accept the definition of a soldier, but the government is not. Moreover, if this were to be established, I agree with my colleague that this needs to be established, but also with international experts. For everything we have heard so far has been simply prepared for the needs of the former regime and no one wants to accept it. I did. And I don't want to be involved in this treatment anymore. But I am grateful to you, Mr President, that you have responded as you did to my proposal, to give me a minute of silence and thus to show that pieta which is this law and government and everyone else respects. That's what you say, no pie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u158	Mr. Bernick, this proposal of yours has been recorded. The debate is not yet concluded, the law has not yet been adopted and I will consult the President on this proposal and we will have this opportunity in the debate below if we so decide. Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer had a replica, so we're on our way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u159	I have already said in the debate that for the adoption of the law alone it does not matter whether now to rule the answer, the patriots were soldiers, the troops were soldiers, the Germans were soldiers, the Italian soldiers, the Hungarian soldiers, and I do not know which other formations. For this law, it is an important general general definition of how to deal with soldiers, killed soldiers, fallen soldiers, or how to deal with them. Therefore, these answers are irrelevant. I am concerned, however, that some of the concepts that have stood firm in our society and have been anchored, not only for 50 years, but also until the recent. So the revolution came out of the term apparatus. It wasn't there. Apparently, the patriots are gone. I have these books from Simic Ducky and I tell you, they read very intensely. It's an interesting style, cowboys, Indians, but like soldiers. And [[...]] [[It's an ad by the vice president of the bench.]] No, I'm not, like, that kind of thing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u160	Please do not take the floor, we have an opportunity to apply for the debate. [[It's an ad by the vice president of the bench.]] Mr. Evil, please don't do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u161	Mr. Naughty, calm down. It's not going to hurt. I didn't mean to offend you. Well, basically, keep going. If [[...]] [[It's an ad by the vice president of the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u162	Mr Zląbec, I remind you now that you are not jumping into the word of a debater. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u163	I wonder how such a man was at the embassy and represented Slovenia. Look, if that was it, if we assume they weren't military formations, if they weren't soldiers, then they were civilians. That means that all those wars that were described as fighting, I don't know, patriots and partisans, then we can say that this was a combat of soldiers with civilians. Okay, well, if it turns out that this was a civil conflict, that's what's gonna happen. But then it will have to be denied this judgment of the Levstik. You know, if that's how it's done, inconsistently, you fall from one hole into another hole and you end up having "Toro Boro," I'll tell you, that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. I give my word to Mr. Gabre, and then I give it to him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u165	Mr. Vice President, what, you don't want to speak to me anymore?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u166	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u167	I signed up for the replica in front of Mr. Petty Officer, and now I'm going to come after Slavko Gabro, who I've seen so late. I give up the replica, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u168	Mr Brenčič, please, you have the floor, I apologize, and then Mr Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u169	Cross of God, let him help the mountain.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u170	Or you raise your hand when I don't look at you. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I just want to protect a few of the applicants. I think it is unfair to ask the applicant, at the time of the second reading of Article 4 of the draft law, to submit this legal expertise by which the National Assembly is to entrust him with a second additional decision to be adopted after the conclusion of the hearing. That's all I wanted to say to protect the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. I'm sorry again. I'll take better care of you. Mr. Gaber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I am not going to take on the proposaler's defense, but I will say that I would expect the proposer, when he prepares such a law, to know this answer when he brings him to this national assembly. This should be the order, and if there are no answers to such key questions, then it is only a very bad sign of the readiness of marriage. What I've been calling about is another part of the story that we're talking about here today. I think we're overreacting with the width of the debate. I think we are reproducing the illusion of how we will respond to the dilemmas, the very serious, very serious difficulties, the very serious mistakes of generations before us. Some have been here since those generations. I'm not alone and I don't want to judge them. But I say directly that it is difficult for me to actually be ashamed of myself when I think about what they were able to do to each other during certain periods of weakness. Whether they were willing to betray their fellow humans and thus lead them to their death, or when they were willing to avenge their mistakes in such a way that they had to be killed; and killing them after the war; and acting in a very strange way as a man. Ours isn't that I don't know how far we're going to judge these things. It is ours to try to settle that elementary Greek: people deserve graves because they are human. Not because they're patriots, or because they're partisans, or because I don't know, anyone else. The grave is something that belongs to everyone. And let's talk about graves and not judge historians, and I don't know what else. I was taught that as far as history goes, there is no better truth than the truth of the winner than the truth of the defeat, but the truth of the defeat is no better than the truth of the winner. Anyone who claims to know for all time what the only true history is is on his way to totalitarianism, so it would be good if we kept back a little bit in history with strong stories. It's been a long time since the theory came to light. We're solving a practical problem. These are graves, and that would suggest a solution, while it would tell historians to let things work out. That they're going to "stammer" on this subject is history itself as an expert. When everyone thinks the same, then I will be very concerned, as I am concerned about that time when they thought the exact same thing. These are all bad signs.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. Gaber. Mr. Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u175	I'm giving up the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Tiny. Then I give my word to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u177	Thank you very much. In any case, I would like to assure the ladies, honourable Members of the Orazm, that the government, because it has not prepared an answer to the dilemma surrounding the status of the armed forces, did not want to delay the matter at any time or in a dream, if I may stress. It is true, however, that the minutes of the Committee should be read saying: "The Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, after the second reading, adopt the following two other decisions." That's the one. However, since this expertise is also related to costs, any clearing and ordering of such an investigation at this stage, as you have seen it, is an empty matter. And my very great responsibility at work, because I would act unlawfully and without the basis for spending certain resources, even without the basis of any waste of time in discussions with the institutions to do so. Finally, for such or other reasons, it could be confirmed that, even in the National Assembly and also between you, there is no need to clarify the status issues of individual members of any military if this law is to be adopted. This position did not grow in the secretaries of the brain, but in the legal experts involved in drafting the bill and amendments. And I'm obliged to present it here so that I don't experience further disqualifications and perceptions in the sense that I'm not worth sitting here and so on. I'm used to it. And everyone has a legitimate right to criticize a man in this regard, not just the secretary. But here I am representing the views that have been verified on our part by the proposer and that is why I presented them. And because this conclusion is not binding on us in this sense, we have not begun to do so. I have also mentioned some of the concerns that experts have with regard to procurement. However, I can ensure that we do everything we can to ensure that this is prepared as soon as possible when this decision is adopted - if such a decision is adopted. By being able to stand and stand and take some time to do so. But there is certainly no need, no need, nor does the applicant reject the guilt if it comes to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I give the floor to Mrs. Zalokar. Please, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Žnidaršič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I'd give up this replica. And of course, I also admit that I can read well and that I know that we have actually ordered that this expertise be until the third reading. And I think I got it all wrong. I said for the first time that it was the damage of a month and a half that passed, and he didn't get that answer. And I told you why. Because, at the time of the Committee's consideration, we found that this was the weakest point of the law and where we found that when we asked this question - but here I think you will admit to me - we got once the answer that yes, the second time the answer is yes; one thought it was so, the other thought it was so. And here, when we made it clear and loud - when we recorded it too - we asked this question, but it was perfectly clear that the government did not know the answer. That's why I said that I expected, given that you might have known and knew a month and a half ago that this was the weakest point of marriage, it was a shame and that today we would have been dealt with here, in this case we could have served with some kind of clearer definition that we don't have yet. This is not just a question and a problem of this law alone. I think that the whole range of things connects to this very question of where the interpretations are and where the expectations of this status are, in my opinion, completely and diametrically different. That's why I discussed this earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Another explanation, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u181	I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this law has been in the process for four years and that at the first reading of these dilemmas there was absolutely nothing and that no one at that time asked who the soldier was if he was to receive a military grave and that is also a deficiency, we can say that the procedures in the sense that it did not require these dilemmas at the beginning, if today considers them to be open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u183	Thank you. Two things, just for a moment, I would like to say in this debate. The first time I initially said that marriage was ill-prepared, I was thinking about that question. Since we are talking about making decisions in the second reading and we do not know what the decision means, we do not know who we are giving the right to after Article 2, Article 3, Article 4, or so on, but I would say a very responsible act. And secondly, Mr Secretary of State, your conclusion after first and second reading is correct. Only, it changed the concept of government and at first reading it was unquestionably clear who the soldier was. It was undeniably clear. In the first reading, it was undisputedly clear who the soldier was because in the first reading of the law or in the second reading of the law it was always written: "Because in carrying out military or other duties for the purposes of defence or security of the Republic of Slovenia". And in this part, the concept changed and then there was a discussion. If we had an answer, it would be easier; I have to say again: the answer is given to me to decide. It's my day. I said it before, and I can do it again if I have to. But I am more interested in what that answer will bring to those who are asking this as a big question today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. Potch. I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate. I'm sorry, Mrs Danica Simšič has another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Just a short call to colleague Orzm and her co-workers and co-workers. In view of the considerable debate in the amendments to this article, given the rather vague answers that alone - and I believe that many in their parliamentary group have not been satisfied - given the well-known fact that sometimes in the third reading some of the things adopted in the second, very, very difficult change, I suggest that you consider supporting the amendment of a group of Members giving a wider space and leaving a more open door. I will, of course, vote alone for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-16-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u186	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We will first decide on point 1 and if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under points 2, 3 and 4 are irrelevant. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 33. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it that the amendment under point 1 is not accepted. In making my decision, I am making an amendment to the Government's amendment under point 2. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour, 21 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it that the amendment to the government's amendment is not accepted. In making my decision, I am putting an amendment to the amendment under point 3. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 40. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 40.]] I understand that this amendment to the amendment is not accepted either. In making my decision, I am putting an amendment to the Government under point 4. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been completely amended. Colleagues and colleagues, the hour is approaching 19:00. I don't think it's worth starting a new article and opening a debate, so I'm breaking this item on the agenda. Since the assembly decided at the beginning of today's meeting that all unfinished items should be transferred to the next 16th meeting of the National Assembly, namely points 14, 15, 16 and 17, I conclude the 19th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your cooperation, for your help in my first management. I'm closing the session and a nice weekend together!
