ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin the continuation of the 15th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Ivan Bozič, Rudolf Petan, Janez Cimperman, Igor Štemberger, Victory Jelinčič, Janez Podobnik, Yuri Malovrev, Franc Onbulj for the morning part, mag. Janez Kramberger, Bogdan Barovic for the afternoon work, Cveta Zalokar Orazem, Jelko Kacin, Jožef Školč for the morning work, Andrej Gerenčer from 10.30 to 13.00. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards. Put your cards in. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Quorum, please. I note that 64 Members and Members are present. The assembly is so concluded and can make decisions. Today's continuation of the 15th session of the National Assembly will begin with the continuation of the 35th session yesterday. POINTS, THESE ARE LOVES AND NAMES. We stayed, so we closed the debate and the parliamentary group took a break from the SLS. The assembly will then move on to the consideration of the closed 5th point, which is to the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Public Servants, then the 6th point, this is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Activities of Foods and Products and Substances in Contact with Food, and so on. Mr. Lavrinc wants a word, I think.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u2	Yes, thank you very much for your word. I would ask my fellow Members and colleagues, so I have personally assessed that the amendments we have are not of such importance as to be discussed by content. However, it has proved wise, for the union would like to present some more opinions, and please, if we meet at the Tomšič Hall at half an hour, we can do a second reading of this law and then, of course, we can do it this afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u3	Good. We would then proceed with point 6 after this point today, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products and Substances in Contact with Food and in the order in which they come forward. At 1:30 p.m., the Internal Policy Committee will implement the second bill of review on public servants. And then the conditions will be met for this law to be considered by the National Assembly. Thank you very much. So we're at the point of election and appointment. Proposal for a meeting of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance on the agreement to appoint the Director General of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. Does the representative of the SLS Group want a word? Please, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, at this time that we have taken in the Group of Members, we have further assessed the state of the healthcare and insurance system and have found that at this moment the most we can do to benefit this system is to support the proposal of the Assembly of Institutions, which for us is an autonomous body, an autonomous institution, and, of course, we will follow that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much. So, before we go to the vote, I would just like to point out what we are voting on. We are voting on the decree - that it will be clear that there will be no misunderstandings - we are voting on the decision on consent to appoint the Director General of the Health Insurance Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. So we're voting on a ruling, yes or no. A voice explanation, please, Mrs Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to explain my voice. When I went to the presentation of the strategic development programme of the Health Insurance Institute, I was pleasantly surprised by the programme being prepared. But after reading it again, I had to give all the credit to the team she was preparing. The Authority’s mission to ensure that insured persons are granted the right to health services and monetary benefits in accordance with the principle of solidarity, social justice and non-profitability provides health and related social security in the event of sickness and injury to insured persons. If we allow this programme, under the guidance of Mr Koshir, to begin to take place, and provided that we address the shortcomings that are: public health correction, clear division of work between primary and other health activities, proper management of new technologies and treatment methods, greater clarity and sharing of responsibility between the founders and the management of health institutions, and regulation of legislative inconsistencies between public health service obligations and the possibility of self-payment. In addition, it will be necessary to resolve, sooner or earlier, the complications arising from the granting of concessions to private individuals; to resolve the misunderstandings arising with regard to the role of health homes; and to determine the right to private work and the privatisation of healthcare. In all of this, the Ministry of Health and the National Assembly must play its role as a legislative body. As soon as we can make order in this area, the programme that Mr Kosher and his team have drawn up will be more effective. And believe me, there will be a stable health insurance system. The alternative programme was neither presented by the Ministry of Health nor by another candidate for the post of Director of the Health Insurance Institute. That is why I will give my voice to Mr Kosher and at the same time also the recognition of his team, because it seeks autonomy and thus greater responsibility for the insured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you. Can we move to a vote on the decree? [[Yes, you can.]] Let's vote, please. Of the 69 present, 23 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the decree has not been adopted and therefore the National Assembly has not agreed to appoint Mr Franc Koshir as Director-General of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance for a period of four years. The next item in elections and appointments is the proposal for a decision appointing five members of the Council of RTV Slovenia. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the Commission for elections, appointments and administrative matters. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? It doesn't look like it. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Janša on behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think I've been on a similar subject for the fifth time in this term. Once again it is decided on a body, the institution of the authorities, which will run a very important public institution and again, despite the legal provision, the proposal formulated by Kviaz does not correspond to the representation of political parties or parliamentary groups. Of the five members of the RTV Council, Radiotelevision Slovenia, appointed by the National Assembly, is only one type of opposition. The opposition is stronger in this national council. Similarly, when it comes to the next body, the RTV Supervisory Committee is said to be a similar imbalance. The names that have also come into this composition of the RTV Council, which is provided by or appointed by the National Assembly by some government parties, are also a bit of a surprise. For example, the Liberal Democracy, which publicly advocates Slovenia's entry into NATO, has appointed or proposed two exposed candidates who have so far publicly opposed Slovenia's membership in NATO. So we are also witnessing in this concrete move that one is speaking and one is doing something different. I would therefore call on colleagues from government parties to reconsider this proposal. Firstly, because the proposal by Kviaz does not reflect the composition of this national assembly, again and again, because in my opinion, the proposal by government parties, at least for some candidates, is not the most appropriate proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you. Any other members of the group would like a word? Please, Mr. Drobnič, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. The New Slovenia Group disagrees with the Council's proposal as it has now been submitted. Why? It is precisely because of the fact that there is no partocracy in the world of RTV, that we have proposed a candidate who does not represent the types of party, but rather that pluralism of the media, an independent journalist. However, as you have found or known, he has not been confirmed, although he is a doctor of science, although he is an independent journalist, there has been no hearing for this. Apparently, in Slovenia they have not yet matured to set up public and plural television. It's actually a slap in the face of the public, a slap in the face of pluralism. Apparently, this public office is not going to be a public institution, and it's going to take the old wheels forward. We're going to pay the citizens on TV, but we're going to get what they're offering us now. That's not what Slovenia deserves. Well, we're worried about that. Even this fair attempt of ours, fair trial, has not been accepted and we will obviously have to wait some more time in this Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Pece, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! I will not go into individual appointments or non-names, because it is all a strong party's human resources policy. In the Slovenian National Party, our opposition to this policy, which will not lead us forward in our belief, but only during that period of customerism, which we are witnessing especially this year, cannot be opposed to the proposals put forward by the Commission, Kviaz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you. I am no longer a member of the group, so we are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. There are no written applications, so I limit any further discussion to five minutes. Anybody want a word? Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! With great concern, we note that there is almost no person on Bandil's list who was not replaced in the time after the Bajuk government. So it is an intensive cleaning, which is going a little slower than we expected, but so intensely that we have found that there is only one cleaner on the public "secret" in Ljubljana, who is not at the will of the government, and I suggest that you change that too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u15	Anyone else want a word? Nobody? Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Otherwise, the representative of our Group has already explained our position, as far as this is concerned, and I would just add a few more. But he added that the time of transfer in our country has expired. Dear colleagues and colleagues, no one can ignore the fact that in this institution, which is being paid by all Slovenian citizens and citizens, things are actually happening that are not in our country's honour, especially not in honor of our democracy. Pluralism is actually in this house, RTV Slovenia is really a foreign word. We are all aware of the fact and position taken by RTV journalists regarding the editor who banned the report, which prohibited reporting on some data that was supposed to be offensive to the Slovenian government. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is time for us to take the right steps to at least start opening this place, so that we will not be afraid of the difference that obviously exists in our society and which in this house, Radiotelevisions Slovenia, does not yet have a minimum space. I'm sure you have enough votes and you'll do it again. Remember this day, however, that Slovenian citizens and citizens will not tolerate such misdirection and such denial of concrete facts. There's no news for anyone in this house. And what we are going to do today is to adopt such a proposal as was formulated in Kviaz, just confirm that Radiotelevision Slovenia will still be in the hands of one and the same, even if they have now become professional representatives of sports activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! I'm just going to make my grade. Like the position of the Slovenian national party, I will also oppose the five names listed in the decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. There are two main reasons. Firstly, the supervisory board of RTV Slovenia has a very important function and should certainly be composed of representatives whose professional basis and knowledge of the work of this institution should, of course, be much greater than is possible from the names identified. And secondly, if we want depoliticisation in such and similar bodies, then this depoliticisation should actually be carried out as depoliticisation, but if we look at some names that I will not talk about, we see that there is still a political function or political role on this list. And if it is already, if we cannot avoid depoliticisation, then it would be right to be at least balanced on this list in order to balance at least the names of the different political options on this list, if we are already inserting policy into the work of the Supervisory Board. Once again, I will object to the ruling for two reasons, two reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will not support the proposal for members of the Council by the National Assembly, because I think that such a composition would lead to additional instrumentalisation of the public institution for the needs of the current political line.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decree appointing five members of the Council of RTV Slovenia. Let's vote, please! Of the 69 present, 46 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The next decision, which we will discuss and decide on, is the proposal for a decree appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the Commission for elections, appointments and administrative matters. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] There are no written statements for discussion. I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. The debate is limited to five minutes. Anybody want a word? Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u22	I'm just asking, Mr. Chairman. Is the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board at this point in time?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u23	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you. That's exactly what I wanted to discuss. Look, the head of the Government Information Office, Dr. Ala Brglez, will be a member of the Board of Supervisors of the RTV Board. This can only happen in our country. The government has complex control and, of course, direct influence through such a person or the Prime Minister, almost direct influence on what RTV Slovenia will report and how it will implement the programme. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing five members of the supervisory authority of RTV Slovenia. Let's vote, please! Of the 68 votes in favour of 44 Members and Members, 23 were against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The next decree is the proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the Telecommunication Council. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I do not have written discussions, so I will limit further discussions to 5 minutes. Anybody want a word? Please, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much. In fact, this is a matter of replacing DeSUS, if I am not mistaken, and the fact is that the review we received, on the structure of the employment in the organs, makes it clear that this Group of Members is quite re-designated in the membership of the Supervisory Boards and other bodies. This would therefore be an opportunity to correct these imbalances and to correct the parties in view of the multiple agreed and expressed criteria, a true criterion of electoral outcome, which is also being translated into criteria of representation in the saints and in the members of these councils, in order to take this into account in this appointment and to establish a more correct relationship. Sadly, there was no reputable obedience on the part of Quiaz. That is why I will not personally support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] So I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing a Council for Telecommunications. Let's vote, please! Of the 65 present, 44 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And we have another amendment to the decree at this point, this is a proposal for a decree amending the decision on the composition and election of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Rules of Procedure. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? There are no written reports. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree amending the decision on the composition and election of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Rules of Procedure. Let's vote, please! Of the 64 present, 58 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that this concludes the agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTHFULNESS OF ANIMALS AND PRODUCTS AND SUBSTANCES COMMITTING IN HISTORY The National Assembly considered the draft law at its 14th meeting and held the first and second hearings in the context of the reduced procedure. The third reading of the bill was suspended by the assembly for the submission of amendments. I am moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. Three amendments have been tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, just a little attention to knowing what we are discussing and deciding. We are at the amendments on three sheets of paper, that is, if we go after the dates, all three amendments have a date of 22.3.2002. These are amendments to Article 2, the United List to Article 7 and the LDS and the United Kingdom Groups to Article 13. Excuse me, the LDS Group withdraws its support for this amendment. This is said to be only a United Nations Group. After this order, we will decide later. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 2, which is the proposal of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. So, as you can see, it's a new two-a. Let's vote, please! Of the 48 present, 17 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're at the 7th. Amendment to Article 7. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mrs Simšičova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is, in fact, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, an almost editorial amendment which gives a slightly more precise definition of when information on alcoholic beverages is permitted, within the framework of trade, where it is pure information and not in this context of advertising. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 7. Let's vote, please! Of the 47 present, 37 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're at Article 13. The amendment of the United List. Anybody want a word? Please, Mrs. Simšičeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much. There's a brief explanation here, too. Colleagues and colleagues will probably remember that we have already discussed in the second reading whether it is good that the word "may" is "may" or not in the dictatorship. This amendment is designed in accordance with the Secretariat's legislative warnings that the word "may" in the law is not most appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u32	I will oppose this amendment. Ms Simšičova said that they had relied on the Secretariat's warning. And I'm going to point out the adoption of the State Administration Act in a second reading. There, too, at 76, in conjunction with Article 21, the Secretariat warned the State Assembly, which, with the decree adopted in Article 76, gave the Government discretion to set up bodies within the ministries. In this case, the adoption of this amendment would be inconsistent and contrary to what the National Assembly and the Internal Policy Committee adopted in the Act on State Administration in other readings. Let me point out that the Internal Policy Committee has not voted against such an arrangement at all and that the National Assembly, with a large majority, adopted Article 76 of the State Administration Act, which gave the government discretion to set up bodies in its composition. If we have adopted this under the Law on State Administration, it is correct and proper to follow this regulation in this law, and not by the first law we have passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u33	Thank you. Who wants another word? Mrs. Simsichova, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Of course, what Comrade Tarchoon said is true. It is also true that the law he mentioned is only at second reading and, of course, that the law is not yet in force. For the time being, those laws which have been adopted in the legislative procedure have been published in the Official Journal. So according to the Constitution and other warnings, I still think that would be good. Otherwise, each one will make his own decision and vote as he pleases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u35	Replica, Mr. Tercheon.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u36	So I have to say, this law doesn't apply either. Not just the state administration law. But tell me how we will adopt this law now, then we will adopt a law on state administration, where there was no vote against and where we agreed that the government's availability would be given and then we will change this law again in 14 days - or how? I really don't get it. I mean, I'm going to argue with that because it's completely inconsistent.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you. The opinion of the secretariat on this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Here, in essence, I would just like to point out that such a two-pronged solution, which, on the one hand, foresees the optional nature of the establishment of an office, on the other hand, provides for provisions that specify and also set a time limit in the transitional provisions for its establishment, that such a two-pronged solution in our view is inappropriate and questionable, and will, as I announce in advance, also lead to non-compliance within the provisions of the law. With regard to these warnings, the secretariat's comments already made in its previous consideration of the draft law and in its consideration of the draft law on State administration add that the situation that will arise when the concept is put into effect, the new concept of the establishment of bodies in the composition of ministries, will regulate such a situation on a systemic basis, as provided for in the transitional provisions, already the State Administration Act, by repealing the provisions of the sectoral laws on bodies and organisations in its composition and determining their application, are to say those provisions until the Government Regulation has been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 13. Let's vote, please! Of the 47 present, 26 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the amendment to Article 13 has been adopted. We have thus concluded the debate and decision-making on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. As I have pointed out before, the adoption of the amendment to Article 13, by which the word "may" was added, has led to a discrepancy with the provision of Article 18a of the bill and therefore a harmonisation amendment has to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I find that the law is therefore not mutually coordinated. I interrupt this agenda item to prepare the harmonisation amendments and ask the government to prepare these items in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope it is the right procedure, but with the adoption of the amendment to Article 13, we have deleted the word "may" right now and therefore the law is no longer inconsistent, I suppose. But I'll have a colleague from the secretariat tell you. Thank you so much for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u43	We heard the secretariat's opinion. Is she gonna say it again?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u44	I'm sorry, really, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u45	Is that what you're saying? Coherence exists? [[Yeah.]] Thank you. We made a mistake. That way we can vote on the whole law. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Period of the day - Third defense of the proposal for a law on working proportions. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome Minister Dimovski and co-workers and co-workers. Does the government want a word? Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u46	Dear Members and honourable Members! You have before you a proposal for a law on working relations, prepared for the third hearing, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia discussed and adopted at its 66th regular meeting on 14 March this year, thus completing its work on one of the most important laws on regulating the relationship between workers and employers. It was not only the preparation and professional consideration of the law but also the coordination of different interests between the social partners that took place for a long time. The consensus reached in this regard certainly means achievement, which is one of the main features of the law, while at the same time ensuring that the social partnership in our country is alive. The second examination of the law in the National Assembly was concluded on 31 January 2002. At the same time, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decided that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should prepare a proposal for that law for third treatment. In accordance with the adopted decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the text of the draft law on working relations for the third reading is prepared. The text of the legislative proposal includes all amendments adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at second reading; this is a total of almost 130 amendments. Due to the addition of new articles and deletions prior to 106. and prior to 227. Articles are duly renumbered in the text of the law, and the other articles of the law make the necessary nomotechnical edition. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted six amendments to the basic legal text. Article 52, which lays down the specific nature of the conclusion of a fixed-term work in cultural activities in order to delete it, since the possibility of specific regulation of a fixed-term contract in individual activities is already given in the basic text of the law. Then it's article 146 of the law. The possibility of additional work to carry out a medical service is added, at least partially addressing the shortage of doctors in certain professional areas or in some areas of our country. In Article 210, a provision is added for the accounting and payment of union membership, with which to emphasise the agreement of all the social partners. As regards 216th Article, which deals with the temporary and occasional work of the students and students by which the ambiguities of the amendment proposed Article are addressed in the second reading. Finally, to criminal provisions which constitute a more precise dictatorship and sanctioning of newly incorporated articles. Thus, the text of the law in the third reading, as well as the proposed amendments, including corrections, follow an agreement and signed declaration by which the social partners, following the multi-month coordination on 7 November, confirmed the mutual harmonisation of the second reading bill. In view of all of the above, I propose that you support the proposed amendments of the Government and adopt the law in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, as a parent working body. Mr Brenčič will present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Committee considered the draft law at its 18th regular session 3.4. There was no particularly large debate, given that all that was adopted in the second reading was included in the draft law. The Committee supported the Government's amendments to Articles 52, 146, 216 and 229 and 230. He supported the amendment of the Group of Members to Article 18. However, the Committee did not support the amendments of the SDS Group of Members to Articles 29, 45, 73 and 166, and the LDS Group of Members to Article 206. However, the Committee did not vote on the Government's amendment to 210th Article because it was not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The committee has not formed its amendments. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly examine the law in the third reading and also adopt it by means of amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Drobnič, New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u50	Hello! Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives, government representatives and others in the Chamber. Allow me to deliver the opinion of New Slovenia on the law on working relations in third reading. The aim of the law in view of the current situation is to increase the flexibility of the labour market, the flexibility of labour relations and, on the other hand, to ensure a decent level of labour rights, i.e. social rights. For many of us, if we look quickly, this seems to be an unattainable objective that it is only possible to increase the flexibility of the labour market or the working relationship at the expense of social rights. I must tell you that this can be achieved. And the last time we had the opportunity to host European Commissioner Diamantopoulou, she said that the aim of the European Union countries is to increase the flexibility of the labour market. It is not necessary, however, to reduce social rights. Why and how? I'll explain it to you. Nor did the government take that into account, disregard, and disregard. New trends are emerging in the world of work. Firstly, increasing the service sector, independent employment, reducing the integration of people into trade unions, trade union organisations and increasing corporate, cooperative cooperation in labour processes. These are the key trends. Of course, the antagonistic principle of regulating working relationships is being reduced. And an increase in cooperation. So these are the starting points. And what does the present law say, ours? The draft law in the third reading, as in the second reading, does not allow the Institute of the Council of Workers. You'll say, we repeat these things. However, another emphasis is needed. The introduction of the Institute of the Council of Workers is not a way of substituting the role of trade unions, but a complementary part. As is now regulated in the second reading, the exclusive role of trade unions has been set. Those who do not join the unions will not have a proper representation. This is also said by the representative of the Free Trade Unions, Mr Semolič, here I have his statement. This is in the text, "Who Fears Strong Unions", where he says unions cannot represent those who are not involved. In processes, in labour disputes and in the representation of workers. Then who will represent the workers? Nobody. So we will have two groups of workers who will be able to have their own representative and one part of the workers who will not have one. It's constitutionally undeniable. That's constitutionally controversial. We should therefore ensure such a solution from this point of view. Who gave the unions a concession for the general representation of all workers? Who can impose only a trade union as a collective representative of the labour interests? Why are people put outside the union in a subordinate position? Why will employers, on the basis of such a law, adopt unilateral acts in the regulation of labour relations? The establishment of working relationships is based on bond ratios where there are two sides. Well, that's how we suspend her. It's unworthy, it's not legal, it's not constitutionally consistent. We're increasing the antagonistic sphere of industrial relations. This will increase the number of sentences and contraventions and reduce creative cooperation at the level of the companies themselves. This has proved to be true within the company. They are working towards common goals. Of course, the holy workers cannot replace the authentic role of the union. So in New Slovenia we don't want and we don't want to take away the roles of the union, the ones that can and must be performed by the Syndicate at the end of the day can call a strike, while the saints of the workers can't. That's not their role. What about labour market flexibility? The flexibility of working relations with this law is not guaranteed. We could make this more flexible. However, if, by other laws or in part, this law provides for a return to employment of those categories that are difficult to find on the labour market, this train was partly delayed, either within the budget, when this government and this government coalition provided such a splinter amount of money for the return of unemployed groups to employment. This was particularly highlighted by the European Commissioner. Early return to employment, with appropriate instruments. Secondly, if you remember your colleagues well, in the Family Benefits Act, where you rejected the section on active employment policy measures for weak categories due to maternity. The Law on the Promotion of Employment of Persons with Disabilities has also been waiting for a long time in the ministries' seats. The number of unemployed persons is increasing rapidly; integration into employment is virtually impossible. These are the instruments which should be included in this law or earlier adopted in order to make this legislation flexible. That is what employers require and rightly so require. The analyses have shown that those who have been more detailed and in-depth involved in regulating the labour market, that rigid working relationships, rigid rules increase unemployment. In fact, employers do not prefer to work in situations where they are unable to forgive workers because they are at risk. That's why they use either imaginary student contracts and hire old workers, not students, or they work in black or they don't work at all. That's what doesn't work. Therefore, this law will not be a major relief for employers. Others have warned us about this. With this, of course, in New Slovenia, we do not want to stress that we would regulate the labour market as in America, completely free. We don't want such a liberal or liberal market, we don't want it. Something else about the possibility of representation or the consequences for workers. Those workers, if, of course, they will not be able to impose a suspension of the effect of the termination of the employment relationship if the employer has given them this termination if they are not included in the second reading. One will have a stay, the other won't. So, two positions, two constitutionally completely different. Now I don't know, do you want all the workers to join the union, or should we let it go, as it should be, to their interests? The problem of issuing internal acts - if there is no representation, then the employer will issue unilateral acts under the Labour Relations Act. It's a farce. We have some other comments. The penalty for an exceptional termination of the working relationship is too weak because it is important and difficult for the worker, so the employer cannot simply say, by the way, the justification and the proper procedure must be. The contract part is no longer provided for by law, so we should prefer to work in black. However, traineeships and even volunteering are maintained, i.e. work without pay. In Slovenia we introduce work without pay - a serious step back. In Novi Slovenija we also have a comment on the definition of a small employer and should give the inspectors a greater role to work. Only when we saw what the law was like did we understand the laughter of negotiating social partners, unions and employers. They made a deal, probably quite interesting, but at the expense of the authenticity of the workers and the true representation. In New Slovenia we think that this role will not be a part of the union, so it will be a bad trip for all workers and at the same time a bad journey for employers. Bad travel for employers, as I said before, because we will continue to have rigid working relationships. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you. Please. Mr Pece, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u52	Your Honors are here! It would be illusory to think, at least according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, that with the proposal of the Labour Relations Act we will be able to resolve the employment problem in our country, especially at times when this law is bound by both the Salary Act and the Public Finance Act. Unfortunately, we are convinced that, in any form, this law would be written, whether it would include employees in addition to the social partners, those who are not involved in the form of a trade union movement would be irrelevant until it is accompanied by a more favourable financial policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Finance. The main question around, I will say, or, in the Slovenian National Party, we refer to this as "per partes" employment resolution within the Republic of Slovenia or "per partes" approach to the labour market, is the essential question whether we are standing in the view of capital or we are standing in the view of social rights. In the Slovenian National Party, since 1999, when the law itself was being discussed, we have decided to focus on the social note. The social note is mainly because we think it's right. Secondly, because we think this is necessary in this country and thirdly, because the government is on the side of capital. The law itself seems much more appropriate to us than the law at second reading. You can see the components that have been included in the negotiations and have also been achieved with content alone. This time, however, we would like to make a change, and we ask Minister Dimovski if, later in his speech or reply to the views of the Group of Members and Members to give special weight to the response to workers, to the role of the Working Council or to the material already highlighted by the speaker before me. This also depends on the support of the Slovenian National Party to this Act. We expect that an employee in our country will not be able to protect himself exclusively and only through membership in the union. We do not hope to make an assessment that the union is unable to provide the mandated or giving tasks arising from this law. That was an overrated grade. Let's leave time here. Earlier, however, we would like to respond to employees or employees who are not members of the union. And here we ask you for an answer first. As long as the answer is that in the Slovenian National Party we will consider that this component, their rights, is sufficiently taken into account, we will also support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you. Any other group of Members would like a word? Mr Brenčič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much again, Mr. Vice President. In our parliamentary group, of course, we welcome the fact that the law is under the roof, so to speak. And in order to achieve a good purpose for those to whom it is intended in the first place, as well as for the purpose that some expect in these partnerships. The fact is that the situation in the labour market and that relations in the economic order of Europe are such that partnership is an essential element in achieving mutual relations. And that the government, or legislative body, is one that may interfere with its regulation in particular where certain such or different macroeconomic origins are to be pursued, and also that in a particular segment it provides additional protection for those that are weaker in these negotiations. This is undoubtedly an employee. We support the law as it has been achieved. However, we do not support it in a variety of parts of the content, because this content is mainly agreed on at the on-board, imaginary starting points of the social partners. Both unions and employers. Therefore, we are not satisfied that the union is institutionalised as the only one and the only one who is allowed to represent the employer to such an extent in this law. For we claim that union organization is as real as it is. She's volunteer and she has to stay that way. It's got to be the one that brings the union workers together. Therefore, the institutionalisation of the union in the law by such measure is first of all a bad act for those parts of the workers who are not in the union. And in some, especially small employers, it will happen that workers will be very badly protected in the search for their rights, which go in the constitution and also in the law. Although we have managed with many arguments to enter the position of additional coordinator or the protection of the labour interests of the holy workers in such cases. Of course, trade unions felt threatened, given their institutional entry into the marriage, they also felt threatened, so that they would have to follow slightly more closely those original interests of employment and partnership between the worker and the employer and would not be able to negotiate merely on the roof, imaginatively, as the law itself did. However, we have not achieved this, the time has not yet matured for this situation in the labour market will undoubtedly give a firm indication of the arguments that things will change sooner or later. As such, we support and wish him the best in implementing. It is certainly clear, however, that we will oppose the retrial of the government following a request or a direct "befel" of trade unions to incorporate into the law the employer's obligation to provide services for a voluntary union, which is not good. It is not good, but it is good that the union and the employer or administration, the management, negotiate, and there is no problem in agreeing that they will also collect this membership in accordance with the emancipated business management system, both accounting and other. By no means does it belong to the law to bind the employer to do so. And we will oppose it, and we support everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs Simšičeva, on behalf of the United Nations Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats supports the proposal for a law on working relations in the third reading, in particular because this law has been established for a very long time and because it is absolutely necessary to adopt a law that is likely to be most commonly applied in this country and which is, as we like to call it, the labour constitution. We believe that the solutions are good because the result and the result of the difficult negotiations of the social partners, the fruit of the social partnership, and therefore even more respect and sensitivity must be given to them, whether all the solutions adopted in the articles of the law are completely acceptable or not. It is important that the law defines the protection of workers' rights. It is also particularly important for us that discrimination and sexual harassment are also specifically and explicitly defined, which has already been done in the second reading and is not the subject of this third reading, but it is important. At the same time, we believe that the solution, when workers' rights are advocated by trade unions, is also in cooperation with the Council of Workers, who, under the Labour Co-ordination Act, participate in the policy-making of businesses and companies, is acceptable and good. In this way, the UK Group will support the solutions supported by the Committee and will also support the additional amendments proposed by the Government, including those set out in Article 210, which defines the possibility of clearing union membership with the employer in order to define this in the law. Right, we believe in the United Nations Group that trade unions will not finally assume their weight of responsibility, and this law, in our opinion, puts them to a rather severe test. If these obligations and the opportunities offered by the law are able to make good use of and truly represent workers, their validity will, of course, be even stronger in further negotiations for workers' rights, both with employers and with the government and other social partners. Therefore, as mentioned above, we support these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you. I conclude this part of the presentation of the parliamentary groups, because there is no longer any interest, and we are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a law. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. So, not about the amendments, but about the whole marriage. There are no written reports. Anybody want a word? There is no desire to discuss it, so I am concluding it and moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 11 April 2002. This is a four-page material. Then we have two amendments from the government, to 210th and 216th articles, which change what is already written in this paper. I'll give you a heads-up. I just want to warn you that we have three pieces, so it'll be clear what we're talking about. We are therefore moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendments and we are at Article 18. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u58	The proposed amendment was proposed and also adopted by the Committee for its purpose to help preserve the flexibility of employment and also to help preserve the part that is essential for the further vital development of the Slovenian economy, which means the conditions for self-employment. I therefore propose that, like the committee, these amendments be supported by colleagues and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u60	The government does not oppose the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u62	I disagree with the Government's opinion. The diction of this paragraph may be somewhat inappropriate, but we should achieve this objective after a substantive understanding. In other words, how to understand a contract of employment if it is signed by the same person. So this contract is null and void for my terms because it is signed on the left and on the right hand side by the same person and from this title can also be followed by different sequences. All those who are a bit strange about the failure of the working relationship, the acceptance of rights, that such a dictatorship is being maintained. The basic principles of bond relations shall not be taken into account. Perhaps it would be good if this article or some other article wrote the following. So a contract concluded by only one person or the same person is null and void. This would also prevent the provision from being constitutionally disputed. In this way we will have some strange regulation of working relations in Slovenia. I don't think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you. We can conclude the debate, please, Mrs Bečan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u64	If you allow, the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters was also the answer to this question, which has now been raised. On the other hand, the Government considers that the purpose of this provision would not be achieved by including the problem in labour legislation. It is not a status issue, but it is a violation of the scope of the payment of contributions and taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u65	Replica, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u66	Perhaps the debate that took place in the previous hearing can be understood because this argument was also cited, i.e. financially. But I say it's not a fundamental problem. This problem can be solved in a different way, with other legislation. It is essential that I now point out it in my opinion. It would be correct that contracts under this Labour Relations Act signed by only one and the same person are null and void. That should be it. And we wouldn't be asking questions afterwards, and that provision wouldn't be constitutionally controversial either. The employer should, in accordance with the legislation, seek a solution. Also in the system of organisation of the company. In fact, this undermines the basic principle of bilateral regulation of labour relations. It's not just here, but you know, it's also the issue of unilateral acts, although I say it's a labour law. Just because we've ruled out the possibility, that is, the workers' council as a legitimate representative. The possibility of introducing a Council of Workers should be ensured. But it's on the workers whether they take advantage of it or not. If they won't take advantage of it, they won't. It's their free will. It's just that's how we're supposed to make sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you. We can conclude the debate on this amendment. Yes, you can. So I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 18. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 41 members and Members voted against 7. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was accepted. Article 29 I'm opening a debate. We have an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] None of the Members and Members of Parliament. Please, Mrs. Becan, you want a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u68	The amendment government doesn't support it. On the one hand, the tariff and payment classes are already taken into account in determining the basic salary and, on the other hand, by such a solution is included in the law a category subject to collective agreements and so it is appropriate to remain.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Benchanova. Anyone else? Yes, Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The fact is that, at the time of conclusion of the contract, the basic salary, the absolute amount must be indicated in the contract of employment and that this is a very important and decisive information at the time of conclusion of the employment relationship. However, this information is certainly becoming very unusable after two, three years of employment or ten years, for example. See, the only route available to the worker is the traceability of his basic salary, such as his classification in the tariff or payment grade, which is in line with the published ones which are also published, is to say, the amount of wages according to the tariff or payment grade, and the traceability of the amount of the basic salary even over a longer period of time. Finally, I must tell you from practice that this is one of the very important tangible data, which also serves to control whether the worker actually receives a salary in accordance with the agreed criteria in the employment contract or not. I am now asking the Government how, for example, I do not know that the employment relationship has been concluded, I do not know, in one year's time, and how, in 2008, the labour inspector will determine whether, at some point, the employer respects the provisions of the basic salary contract or not, if there is no single link between the employment contract and the amount he will then have on the payroll. I believe that the classification of an employee in a payment or tariff class is a very important category which shows the traceability of his basic salary over a longer period of time. In no way undermines, no concept undermines, is contrary or inconsistent with social dialogue or social agreement, and I think it can be a very useful tool in identifying workers' rights through their working relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 29. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 11 voted in favour and 39 votes in favour and 39 votes in favour. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Article 45 I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that again. Article 45 shall bear the title "Protection of the dignity of the worker at work". In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it is not just unwanted physical, verbal or non-verbal behavior on gender-based behaviour that is the only category affecting the protection of the dignity of the worker at work. This is an important category, but it's not the only category. Therefore, we propose that the first paragraph should be amended and it is stated that the employer is obliged to provide such a working environment in which no worker will be exposed to undesirable behaviour in relation to race, colour, sex, age, disability, marital status, family obligations, pregnancy, religious and political belief, national or social origin and, of course, to the unwanted conduct of sexual nature which offends the dignity of men and women in the workplace by the employer, perceived or co-workers. In short, we perceive dignity not only through sexual conduct but also through many other things. Look, there's probably a lot of bullies at work because of his disability, maybe even because of his marital status, maybe because of family circumstances and obligations and so on. We believe that the article that speaks of safeguarding the dignity of workers at work is a broader dictatorship that we are proposing with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mrs Simšičova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Of course, it is possible to fully agree with the fact that colleague Vizjak knows that he was also on the committee that all that is now proposed as a correction of Article 45 was, in fact, entirely and even more broadly covered by Article 9 of the Act, which prohibits any discrimination, bullying and so on, in relation to all those points he mentioned. Moreover, discrimination based on sexual orientation, which has been omitted in this amendment, is also prohibited. Thus, these solutions are already contained in Article 6, whereas this solution in Article 45 is truly intended for this issue, namely sexual harassment in the workplace, either physical or verbal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Of course, there is a great difference between the concept of "discrimination" and the notion of "security of dignity". That's a huge difference. That's why it's not enough and it's not suitable to connect it. If what you're saying was true, then of course we could call it a different article. A subtitle or subtitle would be, or as it is called, the title of this article is different and would talk about protecting - I don't know - the sexual inviolability of the worker at work. But it speaks of protecting the dignity of the worker at work, and this is a significantly broader category than just protecting this on a sex-based basis and should then be extended. I'll say it again. Of course, if you will again, as in the previous article, where there was no substantive concern, why the matter is not right, you will object here, because they are social-democrats, but we will oppose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you. There's no more debate. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 45. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present, 14 Members and Members voted against 34. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Article 52(2), first I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u78	Thank you. In Article 52, both the Secretariat and the Government have identified a deletion of the supplement, which has been submitted and also voted in the second reading, namely a solution which has gone in the direction that the professions of artistic character, which are linked to the programming orientation, can also be considered for a certain period of time. In the second reading, the amendment was voted or tabled because, in the roof legislation, the possibilities for work for a certain period of time are precisely in those cases where employment for specific artistic professions related to software orientations, not to project orientations, I stress that it is not at all. It is an open possibility that this issue will be resolved and settled in the field legislation, but no one guarantees that the appropriate solution will follow. After all, the law, which is supposed to solve this issue in the field of cultural activity, has only been incorporated into the procedure in the National Assembly and has not yet touched on the first reading, which means that we are facing the same issue as in the previous law, whether there is something that has not yet been adopted and has the intention of being resolved in a solution compatible with what we have given in this law - security, in short, is not yet. Although I do not insist on the introduction of this solution into the Labour Relations Act, even though I am a hundred percent in favour of it, because let's just say that I leave the possibility that in the future we will settle it in a regional law - we can, but we can't. The reasons for supplementing the law were then very clear and reasoned. We said that such flexibility should be brought about by going beyond inertity in public institutions, in order to establish competitiveness, in order to rejuvenate institutions, so that the circulation of personnel would be accelerated and so on and so on. After all, the European Union countries do not limit employment for a certain period of time through the 1999 Directive, but merely prohibit the possibilities and ways in which each country is able to take into account only certain restrictions that would not make it possible for workers to be deprived in such cases. However, almost all Western European countries speak about justifiable reasons, and these are mostly in sports, theatre and artistic activities, Italy, Germany, especially in the field of television - the preparation of programmes in television and radio houses. Once again, I would like to point out that if we were to re-decision in scepticism, whether another legislation would adequately resolve this and whether it would not be possible already here, that some other countries, such as Germany, which has adopted employment with new legislation recently or before last year, would appear to believe that it is an important acquisition of a more flexible labour market, which ultimately constitutes a useful form of promoting the employment of older people. Let me also say that, in the case of, say, Vienna Opera is of 35 or 40 conductors on a contract or for a certain time or on a contract for - in the case of roaming - only higher 35 conductors are only one in a regular working relationship, as well as 120 in other artistic professions, including stage, but also in a contractual relationship. Once again, if we were to resolve this issue in this law, it means that only the specifics relating to employment for a certain period of time could be produced in a district law, a statutory law in the field of culture. This is the one where workers must be more protected and better paid in such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I understand deeply the inclinations of my colleague, Shirca, why she advocates such a 52nd Article dictatorship, especially in the exceptions to those project and programming tasks in culture. Certainly, such a dictatorship could in one way also allow for a more flexible deployment of the workforce in the field of cultural activity, but flexibility is not achieved only by such a measure. I can say for myself that the already top law on the realization of public interest in culture does not deny such a possibility. It is said that the law - as it has been adopted so far - allows this option, so it was dependent on the manager, the manager, the director, the director of the individual public institution, either the theatre, the opera, the philharmonics and so on. I know that there are problems and problems, especially in some theatres, when we have players who have not had a chance to play on stage for years, but of course this can be resolved in different ways. I would only point out, and it is true that we do not have any European directive explicitly prohibiting the restriction of employment for a certain period of time. It is also true that the value of employment is indefinite and that the European Community, through all its active employment policies, favours employment for an indefinite period of time and that the European Community, through its directives and its policies, which it sets out each year, gives priority to this employment. However, it is also true that the findings in our country in the last ten years have been that much too much time-consuming contracts on employment and that we are somehow on a summit in Europe. However, it is certain that the flexibility of the labour market does not only allow employment for an indefinite or fixed period of time. There are a thousand other measures to be taken for the flexibility of the labour market, including adequate housing policy, so that I am not talking about any other possible subtypes that allow this flexibility. In the United List - and my personal opinion - we support employment for an indefinite period and we oppose such a dictatorship as proposed by colleague Shirca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you. Can we conclude the debate on this amendment? Mr. Trofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the applicant a question in terms of the intention that Shirca colleague raised in the field of culture, how she pictured the employment of professional athletes in sport and professional workers, especially trainers. I argue that it is impossible to enforce this law - professional athletes will not be able to be employed because no sectoral law allows this. I am talking about regular employment in clubs, not those top athletes employed by the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u84	I would like to answer without going into specific details, even what has now been exposed. The main purpose of the law is to regulate these fundamental relations, fundamental relations. As far as specificity is concerned, we are essentially following exactly what Ambassador Shircheva said about it; conductors, athletes and so on. All of this is possible in the field legislation. Otherwise, if we open up to individual professional groups, individual activities can, of course, be opened up to these professional groups. Thus, the basic purpose of the law is to have a basic working relationship, but the specifics, which are, of course, entirely for all professional groups, cannot be covered by the basic law for all activities, but are normally regulated in sectoral laws. I also point out that, in essence, this law is a basic law and that it is likely that both sub-laws and other sectoral legislation will have to be amended accordingly. And probably in areas - so we also gave a relatively transitional period, so to speak, a long transitional period, so to speak, eight months, for example, since the adoption of the law, because all such specificities can be regulated. In fact, the connection to certain laws is then possible, and this is also given in these articles, paragraphs 52 and 53, which allow this to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you. Please, Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Just a supplementary question to the Minister. I continue where my colleague Trofenik has stopped: can this in fact in practice mean that, until sectoral legislation has been adopted in some area, that this may be an obstacle and that it prevents any matter? That's the point at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u87	See, Article 52 is the thirteenth indent of this point, where there are cases where it is possible to conclude a working relationship for a certain period of time when the nature of the work requires this, if it is seasonal work, if it is an increased volume of work. All of these cases are essentially listed and are generally applicable to all areas. However, if there are particular specifics in a particular area, it was also agreed that only in special laws these things should be regulated, because otherwise, if we wanted to incorporate all these particulars into the general law, these two sides of such cases could be listed, it would not be possible to cover all the specifics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you. Replica again.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u89	I'm sorry, but I understand what you just said. But I ask very precisely until it settles in sectoral laws: what until then, where there is no such thing in the field laws at present?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u90	Will you answer that?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u91	This is also not in the current legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u92	Good. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u93	In our view, the specifics referred to in Article 52 allow for the continuation of such types of employment as they are now. If there are specifics that are specifically linked to a professional group, then this is a matter of sectoral legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you. So I can now, Mr. Tiny, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u95	The specifics that you have just mentioned do not make sense to make other laws, as this specification relates to working relationships. Everything about working relationships should be defined here. However, if it is a concept, project work or, I don't know, it is regulated in the field laws and project work is mentioned there. That way, or we'll probably have some bullshit nest. Therefore, matter must be defined in general and as regards working relationships in these laws. We cannot regulate some of the working relationships, I don't know if it is possible, but I do not support this in order to define one segment of the working relationship elsewhere. That's not gonna work. But, you know, I can't support you here at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u97	This is how I see the possibility of using two indents within Article 52. One is the execution of a work that lasts for a certain period of time by its nature because of the duration of the programme project tasks that they are. Then the following is the indent: preparation or execution of works that are project-organised. Because we know that individual performances, regardless of whether they last one year, two years, I mean, of course, are organised for a certain period and can already be used for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u99	I would like to briefly state once again that in the basic labour law, of course, all the specificities of the labour relationship cannot be defined. We've told you before. However, there are types of working relationship, both for a certain and indefinite period, which are defined in the basic law and this represents that framework, the "free more", within which a specific working relationship can be defined.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 52 and move on to a decision on this amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 31 voted against by 11 members. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 11.]] The amendment was accepted. Article 73 I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 73. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 16 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Article 146 I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and pass through - I'm sorry, Mrs Majnikova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I would like to ask why there has been a delivery to carry out a medical service. In recent wage negotiations and with Fides, it turned out that doctors themselves want to have a 40-hour worker + 10 hours overtime. If we bring this into the marriage here, then we will set a specific time for doctors, which will last 60 hours a week for everything or more, of course. And I want to know why this shipment happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you. Any other Members of Parliament? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Secretary, please. And Mrs. Bechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u103	Under the current legislation, there is already a definition of the possibility of complementary, now unitary work. And the cases included in the law in force are examples of highly professional activities, in addition to educational, cultural and artistic and research works. And when a solution was developed in this proposal, only educational, cultural and artistic and research works were included in the solution. High professional work as such in general, and these works have been abandoned. And given that in the field of medical activity or doctors it was found that they were easily prevented from using supplementary work after such a dictatorship, a proposal was made to include them. In fact, this possibility exists for them under the current legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u104	Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u105	We've asked for arguments. The lady didn't send them.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] If there is no more discussion, the answers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u107	In particular, in the framework of the work of the Clinical Centre, there is also an urgent link between research and education activities within the Faculty. The doctors who do the work, the staff who do the work at the Clinical Center, are also a unitary employee at the university. This is essential for complementing both activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u108	Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u109	I must say that in this part you have been on absolutely wrong arguments or that you are actually talking about something that this law does not regulate. This amendment speaks of allowing a unitary employment - as you say - in the performance of a medical service. But you talked about allowing research activity and so on. And this is allowed: either educational or cultural-artistic. You were just saying something against what's already written here. Of course, if you are introducing a medical service as a job, then I wonder why you are not also introducing other services that may also be subject to such employment. I have always understood the arrangements, because this applies to Members, also for some others, because you say that it is already arranged, that someone is employed in his company, or in the National Assembly, or that a minister and a third can do research, cultural and artistic work and so on. Certainly not something that comes from the basic profession. So, the thing is reversed, as I understand it. And you're just explaining something else, that someone who's working at the research institute is going to be able to do a third of their health service. That's not it. However, if you are expanding the core activity, then I wonder why in other professions people are not able to carry out additional work, in another work organisation, a unit job.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u110	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u111	It could - just for a short time: perhaps it was not explained in detail. It is such a combination that can be a professor at the medical university, works also, say, at the Clinical Center to the height of the supplemental part of eight hours. And this is a so-called definition that belongs to these so-called intellectual professions. In fact, we believe that we are correcting a flaw that occurred when this law did not take this into account in Article 146. So it's a variety of situations that are possible, this is called medical practice, professor's work and vice versa. In that case, in a particular case of a medical professor, say.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u112	Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u113	Mr. Secretary, I don't understand you. Now, I have an intelligent quota, but really, you're not answering that question that my fellow Members have asked. However, I am of the opinion that this is a similar amendment to the one we had before in the cultural community, which is the exact same thing. The principle - in one case it was health care, but earlier it was cultural. Then it's true that for everyone, I don't know, they'd have arranged something special for the profession. No, that's not going to work, that's not going to work, that's not going to work, that's not going to work. However, once again, you did not answer the question. I don't know if the other Members understood you. I didn't understand you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u115	It is precisely this understanding that Mr Drobnic is talking about. If you want to relax the possibility of a unitary work in other organisations, i.e. deficits, it can also be in other intellectual professions than you, Mr Minister, say. I don't know why you're focusing solely on this area, and that's all you're dealing with. Either open the option for all deficits to other intellectual professions, or say that the current situation is present, because you are negotiating with trade unions, such that they have prepared you to deal with a specific health issue. If that's what this is, then tell me you're handling it for this, not mixed things. I say my position that I am in favour of being in all the deficient professions and in all the other professions that are of this nature to open up this possibility, but not just for this particular industry - or anywhere, if that is your decision and so on your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u116	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u117	I'd answer that question. There is absolutely no link to any negotiation, I must say this immediately. As far as general orientation is concerned, the deficit profession is already defined in this Article. This is said to be any deficient profession according to the data of the Employment Service. However, it seemed to us that, in the context of the so-called intellectual professions, we should specifically define a particular profession which is definitely deficient.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u118	Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u119	I will vote against this amendment myself because in two articles you have made your position completely different. You turn it off once, and then you include something that you yourself are talking about that should be general and principled. I will therefore vote against this amendment because I do not see any practical reasons for it, except for those I have thought of before.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u120	Mrs Simšičova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you for saying that again. I think we are talking about two completely different things - what Mr Anderlich has just said. We have previously advocated that in the basic law a priori do not define additional employment opportunities only for a certain period of time for one category of employees. This article, which we are discussing, speaks of people who already have regular employment, full employment, and may additionally conclude employment with another employer for an additional time and so many hours. There are two reasons. The first is the deficient nature of professions, according to the data of the Employment Service, but they already have their regular job - I stress that. And secondly, high intellectual services at different levels of education, health, education, science, culture and so on. Where this activity is. And we allow these people to conclude this also for additional work with, of course, the consent of the primary employer. We're talking about these things. And we are not talking about allowing employment here for a certain period of time, but we have been fighting employment for a certain period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you. Can we conclude the debate on this article? [[Yes, you can.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendments to Article 146. Let's vote, please! Of the 54 present, 23, 24 votes against. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Article 166 I'm opening a debate. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The essence of this amendment is to make it clear by law that the worker has the right to compensation for an unused part of the annual leave if, of course, he was unable to use it in accordance with this law for reasons on the part of the employer. We believe that the imposition of compensation for the unused part as a right from the employment relationship enshrined in the Treaty and the government, as I have understood it, has also objected. For all the rights in the contract are, of course, reprimandable. In everyday life, however, there is a great deal of dilemma when a worker has this right. It is therefore clearly stated here that the worker has the right to such compensation only in the event that he wished to make use of his leave, but the employer did not grant him it for reasons on the employer's part. And we think that this article is effective and essentially protects one of the important rights of a worker from a working relationship, which is the right to an annual leave, which is not only a right to a certain standard, but stems from some of his biological needs to maintain working conditions. And given that the government, or that it is a proponent of this law, would say very explicitly that it is even invalid to waive the right to such leave, we think that a clearer right of compensation should also be provided if the employer does not allow the worker to make use of the annual leave in accordance with the Labour Relations Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Bechanova, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall! That way it won't go on. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u125	Undoubtedly, we agree that the worker has the right to compensation if the employer does not allow him to use his leave. However, the Government considers that the amendment does not need to be, within the framework of the law itself, precisely in the provision of Article 184, to be explicitly stated that if the worker is harmed, the employer is liable to compensation. And it is also explicit that the employer's liability also relates to the employer's infringement of the worker's right from the employment relationship or from the employment contract. Failure to provide leave is undoubtedly a violation. Thus, we do not think that provision is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you very much again. I've already done something with this government explanation, if that's already the right of a working relationship. But for the annulment of this right, the government considered that it was explicitly written in, so it is said that any agreement that would regulate it was invalid. However, I think that the termination, that is to say, of giving up or somehow disapproval of the employer of this worker's right is such an important category that it is only necessary to write it in, and I think that the reference to Article 184, which speaks of compensation liability, is very difficult to apply here, because now it should be proved that the worker was harmed. Who will prove in what way this will prove whether it is because someone has not taken leave, now there is damage to it; it is damaged, or limited, its right. Its right, the fundamental right arising from this law, is limited only because of the employer's will, not because of any other will. That's why it's written that way, and I think it's necessary to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Can we close this debate on this amendment? I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on amendments to Article 166. We're voting. Of the 46 present, 18 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[There were 27 votes against.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Article 206, Article 206 I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. For a moment, I would like to ask the proposers why five-year limitation periods have been foreseen in the law, with the amendment reduced to three years, because we know how people are waiting in the courts for their rights and how these matters are taking place slowly. I'd really like to hear what the arguments are for shortening this deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u130	Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u131	I'm giving up the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u133	In view of the fact that the Group of Members has tabled, I can say this, because those who have worked specifically on this law are not here at the moment, because of the arguments put forward by Mr Sok, we actually thought that the courts should be forced to decide earlier, not in five years. Therefore, it is necessary to have cases that - that is to say, shorten the limitation period to three years, but not to five years, and that these things must be done at that time, of course, of course. This is also true of other procedures, of course, in order to shorten but not prolong them. So this is the purpose that was pursued in this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u134	Mr. Vizjak, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u135	Well, it's not even a replica, it's a debate, because I can discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u136	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u137	See, in fact, we have proposed an extension from 3 to 5 years in the previous reading of the Social Democratic Party, which is said to have been adopted in the second reading. And at that time, there was a very large debate in this National Assembly on this subject, where we presented a number of arguments "for" and "against" formal and substantive nature. But this argument, which my predecessor has now proposed to speed up the work of the courts, would then be even more interesting to propose a year. Well, let's just say that's what it would be. Because it seems to me that if a worker doesn't get paid and then, of course, three or five years from now, anything unacceptable is that. Why we argued for five years at the time, this matter is the most important. Look, workers, when they are employed by their employer and their employer, for example, does not pay the annual leave fee, for example, does not pay him some extras that would go to him, believe me, that the worker does not decide to, indemnify or sue the employer in terms of the exercise of his rights. Don't make up your mind. Why? Because he knows that somehow he put a rope behind his neck and that he can say good-bye to this employer. Imagine a private company with five employees, one worker suing the employer. I mean, then you know what happens to a worker like that. That is why we have given this deadline that the worker has the opportunity also after the end of the working relationship and that this deadline is worthy, is not eternal, is not absolute, but is worthy, it is 5 years, which has also been in force so far. And even in applying it turned out to be a problem, almost too short a time frame, we have somehow accepted all of us together that it is only this limitation period of 5 years. And now I see here an attempt to lower it again by three years. Believe me, this is very poor support for workers and, of course, the exercise of their rights. And if you accept that, it will be a vital step back from what we can accept in the previous, second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u138	Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. Yes, Mr Anderlič, this amendment can talk about this: on the one hand, as you have explained - that it is an attempt to force the courts to decide more quickly with this amendment, or that it can be understood differently: to give this amendment the silence of employers, so that they will abuse more of all the ratings that workers under the labour law and the job must obtain. I'm sure it'll be sooner if this amendment is adopted, then it's the last one. That is why I think that, just as my colleague Vizjak said before me: that a step back will be taken if this amendment is adopted. Step back to those basic workers' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u140	Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you very much. As a rule, disputes should be decided arbitrarily in accordance with the collective agreement within the time limit set there. That would be the best. However, since the original interest is on one side that this does not happen, then there is a possibility in court. And the law must be established to protect the weaker in this conflict: surely there is a weaker worker. And shortening the limitation period, I'm afraid it's going to hurt the weaker side, so I'm not going to support this amendment and I'm going to keep the text from the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u143	I'd like to add something to what's been said. Perhaps a lot of things will happen just because of the short period of time and given the slowness of the rescue. This can happen, even very interesting things have happened in the past. This is in addition to those arguments which have been mentioned earlier that will take place. That's what our reality is. Of course, if the courts and all proceedings were to proceed normally, the three-year deadline would be appropriate. However, it is not expected that in Slovenia the matter will improve for at least the next four years, I do not know, essential to take a normal path of rescue. That's what's gonna happen: too many things are gonna get old and fall out.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u144	Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u145	There'd be a lot less words if there was an understanding of what this is all about. See, from a legal point of view, it is better that all events, both of them, that can find their way to the court are completed as soon as possible. If this right existed for a long time, for example, if we had written ten years, anyone could still, it is said, ten years after the claim was made, and here it comes from a working relationship, time to sue. This is very impractical and therefore it is better from the legal certainty point of view that this is the time when you decide whether or not you will apply this right as short as possible - this is what this is about. Of course, of course, even those who have it at their disposal do so when they are in some way on the extreme edge. For example, if a person has delayed his appointment in one way or another, he expects the employer to fulfill what he thinks he owes him, but that does not happen, he will put it there in the last three weeks, after three years have passed. The trial itself in court can take time - I know about one in Kamnik that lasts, I think it was the last time it was the tenth anniversary - it would have meant to you that the man with his claim failed, but that is not true. When it is finally decided when the "über Ober" instances in the country finally realize that it is necessary to say: but now it is so - and it will also apply - then, of course, this matter will then be paid or not paid as it is judged.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u146	Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u147	I think it's been said clearly enough now, but in spite of everything. Even if we look once again at the explanation of the amendment, the basic purpose is to decide whether or not to sue within a given period, which must not be too long. And any initiation of this procedure shall end the limitation period. This means that if I, as a creditor in three years, do not decide to enforce this, then, of course, there is no security that if I apply within five years or just before five years, it will be better. From the point of view of fear, I think the exploitation of an out-of-date deadline would suggest that it is on every individual. Because, after all, it is also a matter of not applying it quickly that it may become much more difficult later on, for it will be so far removed. The logic is to force everything: and those who intend to enforce it, and those who must then resolve it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u148	Replica, Mr. Vizjak and Mr. Rokavec. I don't know who else has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I would not have called earlier if the Head of the LDS Group had explained this. Just as it was then that this dictatorship would lead to a faster work of the courts, that is, it caused, I see, a lot of will after the debate. This is the second explanation that stands in substance, and the first one is pure nonsense. Why? Any initiation of a claim for compensation means, in essence, that the limitation period is terminated. Of course, then this particular dictatorship has no effect on the course of that trial and so on. I've been taught that before. I'll tell you one more time. This reason that it is necessary for these five years to have only some reasonable time for a worker to invest seems to me in this context, as I have said before, to be justifiable enough. That's what we accepted at the time, and I'm surprised at this maneuver. In addition to what you have said, I am really worried about another reason, whether it is in fact the contribution of employers to somehow reduce the likelihood that workers will sue or thus enforce the protection of their rights. Is this, for example, the LDS' inclination in this direction that workers will not serve the judicial protection of their rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u150	Replica, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u151	Just for a little while, because my colleague Vizjak has already said the main thing. The point is that we know that many times, in some cases, employers simply promise workers "we will pay" and so on. As soon as we shorten this period of limitation according to my assessment, it is certain that Mr Lavrinc's in place claim that legal certainty is better if the expiry date is shorter. [[...]] On the other hand, we must probably also agree that the rights from the working relationship are probably those for which we should not limit and overly limit the limitation of the limitation period. These are one of the fundamental rights of workers they have. We know what this is about. These are certain supplements and, similarly, are justified by workers, many times either because of the company’s poor liquidity and so on or not, employers do not pay and delay with their promises. That's why I think he's afraid that three years might be too short. I don't think it would make sense to cut this from five years to three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u152	Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I would ask the Government, or perhaps the secretariat, for an explanation of Article 206 relating to Article 204. Article 204 lays down the time limits within which a worker may refer to a court. There is a period of 30 days after the end of 8 days when things are handled within your company. I am counting on them to be time-consuming deadlines, and whoever submits a request after 30 days, its application is outdated and its application is rejected. If so - I ask whether so - then the whole discussion is about whether or not the matter will be resolved more quickly or more slowly before the court, of secondary importance because it has to be resolved quickly or not. It's all about the court's operation later, it has to be filed within 30 days, and it's later on in court. I am interested in this five-year period. In my view, as it is written, I fear that this is an absolute limitation period, because otherwise it does not have a direct link to Article 204. However, if there is an absolute limitation period for the application to be decided within this period, if it is not decided, the application shall fall, then, of course, or three or five years is a very large difference and the time limit shall be reduced only to the detriment of the worker, as he must apply within 30 days. Let's get this straight, because I believe that if this were the result, the kind of thing I'm talking about is that liberal democracy wouldn't even suggest it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u154	Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you very much. This is all I would like to point out is who of these two parties in a relationship knows the legislative matter better - in any case it is the employer, even where there is no union. And we are already there in this article that this worker does not have any legal support or some other matter to warn him, "make sure that your claim from the employment relationship does not expire". That is why this is even more bad for these workers, since the union will not extend or shorten their limitation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. My colleagues warned me that there was something else I forgot to say so it wouldn't be a dilemma. One is when it's filed. This article, for example, is so if someone - and here Mr Brenčič is a little bit right - I will tell you what - if someone, for example, is more ignorant, and the employer, for example, is now six years, I will say six years, because we have written in here so far five years, six years pulls him by the nose, and some fraud actually - now I don't know what, I don't know what, I can't imagine, but, in short, six years, it's a fraud and a worker's claim to be in court. In this case, when it is five years old, it will apply to those claims that are five years old, but not to those that are six years old, because the limitation period is over. But what I'm trying to say is, from a legal point of view, it's that these things go off as soon as possible. Therefore, it is logical and also that everyone, knowing that 3 years only has time to "stamp" in court, should begin the proceedings, because what is being started is then not obsolete. Then it's not like we're going over there. I don't know. Let's make a decision. After all, we have representatives of the government here, and let them say what they think is theirs, why, let's say, they thought that three years was a sufficient statute of limitations.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u158	It's supposed to be a replica, Mr. Lavrinc. Mr. Petty Officer, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u159	With regard to the question raised by Mr Potsch. The question makes sense, but it's probably more provocative. I think it is right that this claim is referred to in Article 206. However, if we shorten this deadline, we are actually approaching the general deadline after the bond ratio. Don't hold me for how long, I don't know if it's two or three years. If this general deadline is 3 years after the bond ratios, this provision shall be superfluous for 3 years. However, this applies to the first indent of Article 204 and to the fourth indent, where these deadlines are not fixed, and the procedure is initiated. I would also like representatives of the government to have their opinions and arguments for this, but again in the light of these new things that we have opened up in connection with Article 204 as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u160	Thank you. Mrs. Bechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u161	Article 204 is also the fourth paragraph, which states that, irrespective of the time limit referred to in paragraph 2, the money of the claim may be claimed before the court of employment. There's no time limit, there's no time limit for cash claims for a worker to demand. However, as far as the three-year or five-year deadline is concerned, I would point out that the three-year period was in force in labour law, and I think that by 1990, when the federal law was no longer applicable and the general limitation period was then applied under the bond law. There were also certain dilemmas here whether it was a 5-year deadline or a shorter deadline, but then, somehow in judicial practice, the view was taken that it was a 5 year deadline. This has now been the case in this last decade for a period of 5 years under the general rules of civil law. However, the profession has always found that this five-year period for labour law is too long. In view of this, the section also proposed in the examinations of this proposal of the Labour Relations Act that the deadline should be reduced to 3 years, applying the rules of the Bond Code, that the action should be terminated and that the limitation period should then run on a new date when the dispute is closed. The length of legal proceedings should not and cannot affect the increase in order to increase the legal risk for workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u162	Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u163	I would only say from the practice of labour and social courts that a type of irregularity has been identified after the end of certain companies, d.o.o.s. and so on, when irregularities in the payment of personal income have been identified in particular, which the workers did not know about before. And normally it's this hand. If an article is so formulated, the claims arising from all those irregularities arising from the payment of personal income shall in fact be excluded, the underpaid personal income, allowances and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u164	Replica, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u165	Now you say that like you don't believe in this legislation that's coming today. The things that were before, before that were decisions, it was a completely different system. Now we're going to pay, we're going to contract, and so on. What we have here before us will apply to what is now, from now on. Today we are working for the law from now on, not for what happened yesterday or what happened ten or fifteen years ago. I don't know, let's listen there, listen a little bit to the government representative, and it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u166	Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, chairman. I think that the issue is that this amendment actually has two consequences, and I think it would be necessary to be aware of that. It is true that what Anderlich also stressed is that this way some pressure is being put on all those involved in these relations, both on the part of the worker and the employer, to resolve these possible disputes more quickly. On the other hand, I believe that by reducing the power or the ability of the worker to enforce certain claims, he loses the legal title from which he will be brought before the working court, whether it is the case, Comrade Lavrinc, or whether it is just a contract. The fact is, if I find out today and am also employed in the state administration, and here I would ask the government to give us a clear answer to this dilemma, I will find today that the state or employer has been paying me personal income contrary to this and this regulation. This has happened before. That is why we have some pension certificates or what we will do with them because they have been underpaid and the court has ruled in favour of the employees of the state administration. If a provision of five years is in force, it means that I can enforce claims in court for five years and get them for five years. The court will judge, will say 'I am right, indeed, you have been injured and the opposing party owes you for five years to repay this'. However, if we write for three years, it means that I will only be able to enforce this claim for three years because the court will say: the law states that the claims in this title will expire within three years. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] That's it. [[...]] I'd ask the government to answer me if I'm thinking right, if I'm thinking wrong, then it's not that important.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u168	Mr. Vizjak. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u169	I'm happy to think about it, which is perfectly correct. But I'd like to point out another aspect that we haven't been alerting here. In particular, it is a preventive aspect. If the employer knows that by violating some of the workers' rights, let's say by lower payouts and so on, if he knows that the worker will be able to do so for five years when he finds out, he is significantly less stimulated to do so than if it were only three years. This aspect is also an important, preventive aspect of this statute of limitation only needs to be taken into account here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u170	Mr. Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the government, because she did not say this before explaining something about if complaints are filed within this period, then this deadline is extended. Whether or not this is an absolute limitation period. If it's absolute, then this theory of yours is not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u172	Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u173	Just a replica of Mr. Max Lavrinc. At this point in Slovenia, there are certainly countless employers who are in breach of labour legislation. Those who find out will, of course, apply this law. I know, and I am aware that this law is being passed for today and for the years to come. Today is certainly a large number of employers who are in violation of this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u174	Thank you. I now find that we are going around in a circle, we are repeating the debate from the second debate, I ask the Minister if, or Mrs Bečanova, she can answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u175	I might have responded to what has now been exposed, perhaps not being clear. The filing of an action shall end the limitation period, the limitation shall be interrupted by the lodging of an action, an explicit rule in Article 365 of the Bond Code. If the limitation has been interrupted by the filing of an action, it shall begin to run again from the date on which the dispute is concluded or otherwise settled, the limitation period for the termination of Article 369 of the Bond Code. The proceedings may not have an effect on the expiry of the procedure. However, if I answer essentially this question, which has also been specifically addressed to the government, that someone after six years actually learns about reduced pay, let's say at pay, it is true, it can only be required for five years, or only three years ago. However, I must say that it seems rather unusual for a person to register after six years in some way that a reduced payment has been paid to him for such a long period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u176	Can we close the debate? We have two more replicas, Mr Lavrinc and Mr Petty Officer. Please, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u177	It's not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u178	Then you don't have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u179	Wait! I'll ask you a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u180	Excuse me! The clerk is clear. The replica is a replica, the debate is a debate, but the question is for the Internal Policy Committee. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't get an answer to a question from the government and I'd ask if they'd answer me. However, as far as the end is concerned, this provision seems unclear to me. [[...]] Claims from the employment relationship shall expire within 5 years. The amount of assigned revenue in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u182	Mr. Petty Officer! Parliament is not the place where we teach each other how we really understand each other. You asked the question. The answer was what he was. Now you can't ask endlessly things that if the government doesn't answer them, it doesn't answer. [[...]] You will decide when to vote. I can't force the government to answer. The government has responded to what it has said, but we have an answer from our secretariat, which has been waiting for some clarification for some time. But the replica is a replica. Please stick to the rules of procedure. Please, Secretariat, Mrs. Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given that the secretariat has been specifically invited to provide a view of the relationship between Articles 204 and 206, we would first say how we understand the interaction. In fact, we believe that it is necessary to look at the whole of Article 204 and the specific, precise provisions laid down in Article 2 which essentially set a time-limit for the worker. Article 3 lays down a time-limit, but it is essentially a relative time-limit for the infringement of the right. The fourth paragraph lays down a specific arrangement concerning monetary claims. Therefore, we believe that Article 206 actually works directly for employers always for monetary obligations and can also work in the case of paragraph 3 if, I will say, a hypothetical worker finds out of a breach so late and has not submitted any motion before the court that it has been 5 years since Article 206. From this point of view, I would point out that in Article 206 we cannot, in fact, talk about absolute obsolescence, as it is interrupted by any action of the party to the beneficiary of the action before the court. There is no absolute limitation period in these civil matters, even under the Bond Relations Act. Even if the proceedings are then brought before a court for more than 5 years, they may be concluded at a later date and the application will not fail. I would point out, however, that in the case of Article 204, paragraph 2, this is in fact a special time-limit which works separately. However, the employer may also be a party to an infringement and, under Article 204, paragraph 2, it will also be subject to the effect of Article 206. This is the understanding which the Secretariat has with regard to the mutual implementation of these provisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you. I think it's clear now. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 206 and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 206. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 20 Members and Members voted in favour, 29 against. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 29.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Article 210 What you have in this joint review is replaced - please note this - by a special paper sheet where the government has amended the amendment to Article 210 of the Labour Relations Act. I'm opening a debate. Who wants the word for Article 210? We're talking about reforming the government, please, not what's in the review. [[Nobody.]] Yes, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while. With regard to this amendment or Article 210a, I personally do not want the employer to know that I am a member of the union. That's the first reason the union won't go through my records or the employer will know. This article or amendment shows that they are an economic chamber [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u186	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u187	And the union made an interesting deal at the expense of the third. [[...]] That's not worthy. This really isn't worth it. In fact, Slovenia is one of the countries which has, we can say, the most compulsory associations, compulsory payments. From this, it can only be seen that the tax administration will recover contributions to the union in the event of non-payment. That's all I'm waiting for in the near future. And then we're going to have an economic chamber with a compulsory payment, a craftsroom, a medical room, we're going to have a psychological chamber, an RTV is being paid, only liabilities. This goes beyond the limits even when it comes to technical accounting. I believe that the union must maintain its civilian position so that it can acquire certain powers by law. We have already said that he has received ones that he will not be able to carry out and are not suitable. But those who would stand in his negotiations will not be able to implement them. In my opinion, this is the wrong path, and that is why I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u188	Replica, Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u189	I agree that we are one of the countries that has a large number of memberships that we have legislated through laws. But I do not want him to express himself as you said, because this situation here is completely different and different. In fact, membership in the union is entirely voluntary. This is said not to be mandatory with the law for all members or for all employees. From as formulated as you said, it feels like it's mandatory for everyone. It is mandatory only for those who have entered this, them or any other union on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u190	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u191	I would like to respond to Mr Drobnik's discussion. Clearly, this is not about any mandatory membership. Let me say this, and it is clearly stated that it goes according to the law of the union, which is accepted by members who become members of an association. Let me say this again, regardless of whether you were talking about the deal, if you call it social agreement or social bargaining, of course this is your right. I say that, in fact, this is part of the whole building of labour relations, because, of course, employers and all employers involved in this dialogue would not agree to such a formulation. It is clear that the assessment of such organisations has been a trade union organisation, as employers' organisations, that it is necessary to regulate it in law. That is why, as a government, we have once again proposed, taking into account the overall social agreement, regardless of the discussion or the discussion in the second reading, that we respect social dialogue and social agreement and the wish of all social partners to the end. I think that's the key to this question. However, let me say that this is already regulated in collective agreements and that it is in fact just this change, that it is now according to the opinion and desire of the social partners and also the commitment that this is now governed by the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u192	Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u193	Thank you very much. This law is created in a different economic, economic order, as has been the way more or less of all or all of the trade unions now present, only then have they transformed into a whole series of new names, but it remains the same in substance. But there is no more self-governance. God does not allow the possibility of someone representing a worker to an employer where there is no union. This was an almost unacceptable intervention in the agreed matter agreed above, over the clouds. This category, this dignitary, at the request of the union, must be provided by the employer, is not a category of this law and is not a European category. The union is voluntarily organised and therefore we cannot place partners in this arrangement. That's not normal. We can vote because some unions are threatening to stop negotiating. This is no longer union pluralism, this is the introduction of a principle that does not belong in the relationship between the employer and the employee, if we are talking about a genuine partnership. Of course, the union can agree, it can suggest that the employer do this for him. And every employer who understands this partnership is gonna do it. What we now incorporate into the law is the point of civilising unions into marriage, which is not good. It's not European.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u194	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u195	I apologize for having to come back to explain the relationship between the employer and the employee. What you said wasn't European. On the contrary! The European orientation is the direction of the agreement between employers and employees. If you want to accept this fact or not, that's right. As a matter of fact, if we look at the way in which individual arrangements are made, whether it is legal matter, social agreement, wage policy or anything else, it depends on the free will or free will of both partners, both the employer and the employer. In this case, an agreement reached voluntarily is institutionalised without any coercion. It was signed by six trade unions and four employers' organisations. It is said that it was not, as you said, right at the beginning of the "befel" unions. No, it's basically an agreement that we're actually trying to institutionalise with this law. The government is also a signatory to this agreement, which was among employers, trade unions and the government, and is also trying to enforce this issue legally within coalitions. Once again, this is a voluntary solution, no mandatory mandate or anything like that, and in fact this is also enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u196	Replica, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u197	I only replicate for this reason because I fully agree with the importance, weight and, of course, the impact of social bargaining between partners and social dialogue. I welcome the Minister's view on this very important sphere of bargaining between the social partners. Regrettably, however, the government is using it in very partial terms, in the case of the ZDR to some extent or rather successful, and in the case of the public sector wage system, it is quite unsuccessful or going beyond that because it follows other objectives. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u198	Thank you, but that's not the topic. Can we conclude the debate on this article? [[Yeah.]] I conclude the debate and move on to the decision on Article 210, on the amendment, excuse me. Let's vote, please! Of the 57 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 216 We have an amendment here in the review, but it's been changed. Amendment to Article 216 of the Labour Relations Act. When the government presented it, you have a change on a special paper sheet. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Let's vote, please! Of the 49 present, 42 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 229(2), first We have three amendments here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendments to Article 229. We will vote in sequence, as was done in the review. We vote on the first amendment to Article 229. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 40 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 37 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 3. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 41 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] The third amendment has also been adopted. And the last amendment, that's the 230th amendment. Excuse me, Article 230 and the amendment to Article 230. I'm sorry. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 230. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 40 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendment violates the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] So we can move to a full vote on the proposal. So we are voting on the marriage proposal as a whole. Let's vote, please. Excuse me, explanation for the voice. I'm breaking up. Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I would like to explain my vote before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u201	I will vote against this law because it will not please employers, not employees. We could be more pleased. Employers, because the law is going to be regular, could be more flexible. Employees because some will be left without representatives. What we can do in an authentic way is to ensure that we have the right representation and also the influence on decision-making where it belongs. This will also make businesses, institutions and all these entities more difficult to operate. We could be a more successful society. That's too bad. This did not happen because there is no real understanding in Slovenia for an open society, for an economically evolving society, for the future. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u202	Thank you. Anyone else want to explain their voice? Please, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I will certainly support the law myself with a bitter taste, and with good hope that as soon as possible we will be a full member of the European Union and also the Minister will not be able to deal with certain matters as before, but I did not want to intervene, and that a real partnership dialogue, which is not here, will be included in this umbrella law on mutual relations. There is some progress, so the law needs to be supported, but I know that there is no genuine expectation in this law and there is no real reflection on the labour market and the real situation in our economic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u204	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? [[Yeah.]] We are voting on the law as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank Mr Minister and Mrs Bečan for his participation in this item. We're moving to 8. Period of the day - Bill of Law on Postal Services, Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u205	Dear Members and Members! Before you is an important system law that surrounds, you might say, important institutional and legal changes that govern the area, once it was the area of mail, telecommunications and similar services, this time it is the area of mail or postal services. The current legislation is still, perhaps, old, defined by mail and postal activities in a classical way, but also assumes that all postal services and activities are, in fact, a matter of self-evident and natural monopolies and are not subject to, you might say, certain market activities and liberalisation. At the same time, this law, by adapting the field of regulation of postal services and postal activities to the directives of the European Union, is also a harmonisation law. At the same time, it also provides conditions, framework, legal conditions and institutional mechanisms and organisations or institutions for the long-term, stable and accelerated development of postal services in Slovenia, then provides access to universal postal services at an affordable price and, of course, protects the interests of postal users, including the protection of the confidentiality of postal services, and of course ensures and promotes efficiency, competition and cooperation between postal service providers. In this context, the basic orientations are the liberalisation of the postal market, ensuring accessibility to the public postal network, taking into account the advantages and benefits of postal service users, harmonisation, as I have already mentioned, ensuring the public with regard to work, transparency of procedures and the publication of conditions, promoting equal opportunities for mail market participants, encouraging new providers to enter the market, preventing the exploitation of the dominant position on the market and preventing other abuses on the market, and controlling and regulating competition. I wouldn't talk about the main solutions anymore because they're contained in the marriage itself. After all, we also thoroughly processed them at the very working meetings of the Committee on the Economy. I would suggest that then I would not particularly argue that the government supports all those amendments adopted by the Committee as government amendments. In the amendments that came later, of course, I will also want a debate on my part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The bill was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. Please, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Minister! At its two meetings, the Committee considered a proposal for a law. After the general discussion, in view of the large number of substantive comments made by the secretariat, he suggested that the Government should examine this opinion by the secretariat and prepare amendments. We also had written comments from Post Slovenia and proposed that coordination be carried out. This harmonisation has been carried out. Some comments were taken into account by the Government; others were answered. The Committee then supported the amendments of the Government in the follow-up to the discussion. You can see that from the report and from the review. The Committee has drafted some of its amendments, and I also propose that you accept them. In doing so, I must say that there are still a number of such articles, where the various views of the secretariat and the government were different, and we have therefore proposed to the government that by today's hearing, cooperation with the secretariat should be restored and that it should try to clarify matters, to unify itself and propose amendments or, where it does not propose amendments or does not accept the opinion of the secretariat to explain it. This is precisely the result of the additional amendments we received from date 17.4. However, we also have an additional opinion from the secretariat, which supports some of the amendments that the government has further prepared, while some also express individual concerns about individual articles where the government has failed to take the opinion of the secretariat into account. I expect the Minister to respond to these comments from the secretariat as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. As presented in our additional written opinion, the Secretariat assesses that the proposed amendments, both of 2.4. and of 17.4., have significantly improved the basic text as submitted for consideration by the National Assembly. However, we estimate that some important issues remain unclear. In particular, we note from our assessment that the issue of so-called universal postal services, which, as proposed in the law, can be carried out on the basis of the Agency's permission and the other on the basis of the Agency's notice, is still not sufficiently clear. We believe that this issue needs to be clearly cleared, when, for what services, to what extent and to what quality these other services are intended to be provided, only on the basis of the Agency's notification. What's this all about? This is a matter of specific obligations that are envisaged for these providers of other services to provide funds of so-called compensation for universal postal service providers that they provide throughout the country, where they cannot fully cover costs with their revenues generated by the provision of universal services, including reserved services. With these responsibilities, we believe that the distinction between one service and another needs to be fully established. That's one question. The second question, which, according to our assessment, appears to be not cleared from a legal system perspective, is how these funds can be provided to contribute to the so-called compensation. The basic solution is proposed that these contributions be directed directly to the operator or beneficiary of the compensation and not to the State budget, although the law provides, in Article 4, paragraph 1, that universal services throughout the entire area are provided under the same conditions by the State. So, in what way should the State provide this service? These are, according to our assessment, key issues which the proposaler has touched on with the amendments, but have not yet been fully addressed. In addition, in our additional opinion, we also point out some of the other solutions that we have pointed out in the first opinion, and we estimate that the remaining solutions are open and we therefore reiterate the need for further consideration of these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written submissions to the debate, so I limit all further discussions to five minutes. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the general debate and thus the first hearing. Since it's like 1:00, we're gonna break this point. However, I would like to inform you on what we said this morning: at 1:30 p.m., the Internal Policy Committee has a meeting, a meeting at which they will hold a second hearing, which we have heard may be more formal. If all is well, then at 2.30 p.m. we continue with the point of the Law on Public Servants, which we broke last time. So, we start at 2.30 p.m., we continue with the law on public servants, and then we start with this, just beginning with the law. At 2.30 p.m., proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u211	They are meeting the Finance Committee and the Internal Policy Committee, which are expected to complete their work by 3 p.m. This would allow the State Assembly to take decisions on the agenda today without interruption. So at 3 p.m., we'll start with the Post Office Act. I also ask the heads or secretaries of the parliamentary groups to inform the esteemed colleagues and colleagues of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u212	Your Honor! Your Honor! We continue with the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 15th session on 24.4.2002 by Ivan Mamić from 15.30 p.m. on. In this morning's work, we held a general debate and also concluded it, on the 8th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a postal service law, a rapid procedure, which is why we are now moving on to a second reading. Before that, we will determine the presence in the hall. We're picking up the presence in the hall! Please press the "quorum" button. Mr. Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u213	Chairman! My key's not working again. She didn't work for me this morning either. I'm asking you to check it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I ask the other Members and Members not to press the button. For Mr. Gerencher alone, I'm turning on the voting device. Mr. Gerencher, press one of the keys. Thank you very much. Is he okay? We will rediscover the presence in the hall! We're picking up the presence! There are 51 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We are therefore moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let's vote on the proposal! Let's vote! The first vote was not a success, so I would like to ask your attention very much. There's a lot more of us in the hall than the screen shows. Let's take a second vote on the proposal. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 24.4. Let me warn you, you just got it on the bench or five minutes ago, it's got the "new text" in the right-hand corner. It also includes the amendments that we had previously received on the bench. In the right-hand corner, it carries a warning that it is a new text. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the two amendments. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment to the government's amendment, whose proposer is the Economic Committee and under 2 amendments to the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment to the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 47 of us present. The vote is 39 to 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And then there's the first whole article. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2 and on the two amendments of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 46 in attendance, 41 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting! There are 50 in attendance, 42 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 3 and the three amendments. Under number 1 and 2 are the amendments of the Government, under number 3 is the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to speak with you about the amendment to Article 3, under order number 3. The Government of this amendment does not support and agrees with that part of the explanation, the additional opinion submitted by the secretariat for legislation, namely that these are matters which are so important and which provide a general framework for regulating the implementation of these postal services so that they cannot be transferred from the Government or from the Ministry to the Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 51 present, 38 votes against 3. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 48 in attendance, 38 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under number three. We're voting. There are 55 in attendance, 12 in favour, 39 in favour. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 in attendance, 43 in favour, 2 in favour. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 4 and the two amendments, under number 1 is the amendment of the government and under number 2 of the amendment, of which Aloise Sok is the proposer. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u217	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government shall not accept or support Mr Sok's amendment to Article 4 to delete the fourth paragraph. I think we discussed this in quite detail on the Committee on the Economy. It is obvious that if I give only certain cases, it is clear that the Agency will have to provide that, under certain geographical circumstances, exceptions can be made to the provision of these universal services. That's what the agency's gonna have to do. For example, we've given the case that probably on the Kredary, I don't know, right now and even in the future, there won't be any daily mail delivery. That's where I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. The minister beat me to the punch before I explained the amendment, but I must say that I knew in the future that the government would oppose this amendment. On this occasion, however, it may be appropriate to discuss this issue in the National Assembly. Because the problem is big and there is. At the introduction of today's presentation of this law, the Minister said that we are adopting a new system law for postal services in the Republic of Slovenia and that we are adapting it to directives, guidelines [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask for peace in the Chamber so that Mr Sok can present his opinion. Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u221	The European Union. [[...]] I understand this argument that he said he wouldn't carry mail to the Kredar every day. This was also one of the most banal cases chosen by the minister. However, we have many areas in Slovenia, which are not as sparsely populated as Kredarica, yet these areas do not receive daily mail delivery and I must say that in these areas people are disabled by all other parameters, not only because of mail. This is mainly the case for demographically endangered areas where mail delivers everything to them twice, sometimes three times a week, but there is some illogicality in this Article 4. This Article 4 states in its first paragraph that all postal users throughout the territory of Slovenia are provided or provided with postal services under the same conditions. Then, in Article 4, paragraph 4, states that each working day, but not less than 5 times a week. Well, then, in paragraph 4, the Agency is given the opportunity to modify these two articles in its own way and to adapt them to their own geographical circumstances. So what we're missing in this law is basically that there's a framework in the law that this agency can assess, but not that it's given that the agency can order and then say, I don't know, in the Haloz area, because there are Halojas living there who aren't interested in this country, we're not going to deliver mail every day, while in another place that doesn't have an influential LDS official, by chance from that area, we're going to be there. So that's what we're missing in this marriage. It is said that there is a legal framework within which this agency can decide. And I believe you have already said that this amendment, which speaks of the fourth paragraph being deleted, you are opposed to this amendment that, until the third reading, the government itself can propose an appropriate solution in this direction. But the problem is very big. I know that in some of our areas, from where I come from, people simply don't have ordered newspapers. Of course not, because they get these papers two days ago. Two old newsreaders in the paper, it's not real. And that's why people don't use this service. Also, other mail is not delivered to them and there are constant demands, I know, by these environments. I think that now that we are reorganizing this area and adopting a new law, we should listen to these people in a different way, but not to settle the matter exactly as it is now. What is stated in Article 4 - how the matter is now settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, in the end, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I am also somehow joining this skepticism, or dilemmas, which my fellow Member is exposing. In fact, it is only right that the opinion of the secretariat should be taken into account when dealing with individual amendments, which is an additional opinion by the secretariat. It is right that, in the previous amendments that we have already discussed, Mr Minister, you have somehow taken it and also rejected the amendment that we have proposed, the Group of the Socialist Party. I do not object to this because it is possible that this is true, even though some of these explanations are written a little differently. But it doesn't matter. I want to say that the secretariat - I don't know if that's what it's pointing out - that certain things in this Article and then in conjunction with other articles are a little too loose and are not exactly defined. I hope you have also read this part, Mr Minister, and that you will take these things into account below. I also agree, almost, that these exceptions should be deleted as exceptions here. In fact, if we look at the whole law as a whole, then we see that in the sequels we have written that we deliver mail also in some of the notebooks out there in some places - that is to say, not on the houses but somewhere outside the scattered mailboxes, where people use them. They were along some roads. All the way to those roads, it's said, those dislocated collectors that are somewhere, at least in those collectors, must certainly be brought. What exceptions do you think? It's kind of unspecified here. If you already have any exceptions, it would be right to be really possible to mention in two, three, four indents or whatever - I do not know how many of these exceptions are. But it shouldn't have happened that these dislocated collectors would have stayed, let's say, empty. Because it can also happen that the agency will then decide that some remote location would not provide these scattered collectors daily. I don't know, I'm just hypothetically assuming you'll explain. And do you think, of course, that now this fourth paragraph has given the agency a real decision or that they will not abuse this provision? I would also like to ask that the secretariat may identify and say whether this dictatorship is quite accurate for the non-implementation or for the execution of the agency's will, of course, probably at the initiative of the providers of these postal services; they will probably give the initiative to regulate these matters in the manner that the Agency will then probably propose. I don't know. I'm just guessing. I'd like to ask for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u225	Of course, I would love to give an explanation or an answer. First, I would say that the situation by providing what we call universal postal services under the new law in Slovenia - if we read reports and comparisons with other postal organisations and systems in Europe - is relatively quality, especially quality, although even in less populated areas compared to others, perhaps more developed countries in Europe. That's the first thing. Another important point is that, in fact, it has now been in the domain of the post office, that it has in some way organised and defined, for example, the frequency of delivery to some backward areas, now it passes from mail to the agency, which is certainly better than if it remains with the service provider itself, the post office. And the third time it is necessary to say that this article, or especially this paragraph, of Article 4, fourth paragraph, must be read together with Article 3, paragraph 5, where it states that the Minister responsible for the mail prescribes the quality and manner of the universal postal services, that is, what I said before must remain in the Ministry's domain and not move to the Agency. So, in my view, in the fact that it is clearly necessary to read the law, such as that it is provided to all postal service users under the same conditions of the service, I think it is clear that the guarantees that these services will also be provided where they do not have, could be said to have some economic value, in this banal sense, if you want the law to be better in this proposal than in the present solutions. I think these fears are unjustifiable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss Mr. Sok again, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u227	Just one sentence, if you'll excuse me. Otherwise, I understand and have read that in Article 3, paragraph 5, it states that the Minister responsible for mail prescribes the quality and manner of the provision of universal postal services, but in this paragraph, for which I propose to delete it, precisely for the reason that this is already covered in Article 3, it states that "without prejudice to the provisions of Article 4, paragraph 2, the Agency may, by means of a general act, lay down exceptions. So, this is an opportunity for the agency to do it on its own. That's how I read this law. But if that's not the case, then it's fine. But I read it literally like it says.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, now I conclude - Mr Kelemina, actually five, for at least 30 seconds I had my eyes fixed on you, and when I say that I am closing the debate, you will have a little more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u229	I'm sorry if there's something else on the other side, and then I turned the sheet too late. I'd like to ask you this right now because we're at Article 4 if I'm not mistaken. In order to further try to explain under point 5 - yes, under point 5 - where it says that if the addressee does not wish to pay for the postal service performed, the payment of the postal service shall be recovered from the sender on the return of the mail to the sender. That is to say, if the recipient does not want to pay those price differences, if it has not been paid enough, then it must be returned to the sender and the consignor must pay it. Yeah, but how are you gonna get the sender back if you don't know who the sender is? If there's no written address in the back, reverse. Then you put it in the trash and after one year it goes away, it goes to waste. Yeah, if that's what you're gonna do. Well, I just thought it was, but mostly it would be a good idea to write this down here, so that whoever didn't want to accept this shipment would, say, be aware that the shipment would actually go to the warehouse for one year and then into the trash. That should be written. It seems to me that some important mail can then be destroyed or lost. I don't know. That's how I think. You can explain if you want. I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u231	I would like to reiterate once again that we believe that, firstly, we should reply to Mr Sok, that he is completely in touch with Article 5 and also with other articles that define what postal services are and so on, completely unjustified doubts or fears that the Agency would be unjustifiable or reduce certain geographical areas for the provision of services under the same conditions: permanent, regular and uninterrupted as it says here. On the contrary! This law provides greater guarantees and, in order to keep this happening or to a greater extent, so that we do not agree with you here that this paragraph should be deleted: on the contrary, if it were deleted, we would in fact be in situations in which, in completely illogical areas, we should - what I know - provide a job, even if it is not necessary at that time. With regard to the question raised by the principles of Article 5 of Mr Kelemina, it is certainly clear that if the addressee or the consignor is not able to realise this part, of course, it will not be possible to do so. As for the problems of inaccuracy, however, this is regulated in other articles of the law. So I think that this material you mentioned doesn't belong to the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u233	No, no, I'm sorry. Then maybe we didn't get along. I only speak for those mails for which the service was not paid at the prescribed level. That's all I'm talking about right now, which is Article 4, paragraph 5. I was just talking about those because if there's no return address on the shipment, then you can't send the sender back and the sender can't pay the price difference, and then it goes to the garbage. That's what I'm talking about. If it is the perfect address, I am not talking about it right now, only if the postal shipment is not paid, the service is not paid at the prescribed level, then if the sender does not have an address, it is actually thrown into the trash. In short, I don't know, this should be described more precisely, so is my opinion. I'd like to ask you the following questions. I have previously asked the secretariat a question concerning paragraph 4 concerning this exception, whether this provision is sufficiently described for the understanding of the agency's will. You have warned us about something here, the distinguished representative of the Secretariat, and I wonder whether you are still insisting that this should be determined more precisely or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ogrinchev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Indeed, in its first opinion of 26.3., the Secretariat drew attention to this provision, i.e. the fourth paragraph of Article 4. We have assessed the proposed solution in relation to Article 3, paragraph 5, where it is the responsibility of the Minister to prescribe the quality and manner of the implementation of universal postal services. In this context, we have assessed that solutions for these exceptions could also be prescribed, but not that the Agency could be empowered; that is, only from the point of view of competence already laid down in Article 3, paragraph 5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Didn't you hear? I think Mrs. Ogrincheva said that they had warned that you should tell me again, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u237	If I may repeat it. Therefore, our view on the comments made in the fourth paragraph of Article 4 was that it was possible in the regulation provided for in Article 3, paragraph 5, by which the Minister should prescribe the quality and manner of the implementation of universal postal services, a city, that is to say, a regulation which could also provide for such exceptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u239	Thank you very much. See, the fourth paragraph of Article 4 proposed by Mr Sok to be deleted is the right of the Agency to decide on exceptions to the provision of universal postal services. I would now ask the minister, given that he probably has the whole vision of providing postal services, what that means, this right of the agency. Does this mean that the white foxes or areas where delivery is not available or where delivery is limited in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia will be increased or reduced, and if, as a result, we can expect better coverage by delivery, both in terms of frequency and not least in terms of volume, because I know a large number of areas where postal delivery ends in a post office 'castle' and then the mailmen do not know the terrain or know how to get up, although we must also find that it is not a matter of being there in this area that this area is not even rarely populated or inaccessible. But that's the way it is, and that's how it happens. I ask what it means to apply this fourth paragraph of Article 4 in terms of extending the delivery or narrowing the future delivery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u241	Of course I'll answer right away. As regards this fourth paragraph and the vision, whether it means marriage or dissemination, I say with certainty that this does not mean marriage of delivery. On the contrary! The second paragraph of Article 4 shows what the service is now, what the service is. Each working day, at least five times a week, shall be accepted at least and one service of consignments referred to in this second paragraph of the preceding Article shall be provided for universal services. That's standard. This is the standard that is guaranteed, while it is still prescribed in paragraph 5 - the Minister prescribes a quality method of implementation and, in the context of only within these matters, the Agency can in fact determine whether there are any geographical and other specificities which, say, impose any restrictions on this access. At the same time, I would also say that, if I understood Mrs Ogrinchev's point of view, she believes that the Minister should actually prescribe it in some way or in the Minister's regulation. We believe that when the Minister prescribes the quality and manner of the provision of universal postal services, the agency cannot be beyond this provision. This may be a regulation that changes, can extend or narrow a specific area, different from certain characteristics and is indeed a condition, a way of carrying out an activity which is no longer a general regulatory activity. Therefore, we believe that the solution is entirely appropriate. I would like to reiterate once again that the solutions in Article 4 regarding the provision of universal services are more clearly defined today, more precise in their entirety than those in existing legal practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I think I can conclude the debate now and move on to a decision. We will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 4. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[He voted against it.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 25 votes to 23. [[The vote was 25.]] [[There were 23 votes against.]] I take it that the amendment under two has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 4. [[The vote was 38.]] [[There was a vote against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the sixth article and two amendments, one under which is the amendment to the amendment of the government, which is proposed by the committee, under two amendments of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment to the amendment under 1. We're voting. The first vote wasn't a success, we've had enough of it in the hall, so I'd like to ask your attention. Second time we vote on the amendment to the amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment is adopted under one. We decide on the amendment under two. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 4. [[The vote was 39.]] [[There was a vote against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 7 and two amendments. Under one and under two are amendments whose proposer is the Government with a note that the amendment under one is related to the amendment of the Government to this Article under number two, namely Article 60 under number one. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the government's under-one amendment. We're voting. There are 50 in attendance, 46 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 50 in attendance, 42 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under number two has been accepted. We are now deciding on the related amendment, under order number 1 to Article 60, on page 11 of the amendment review. We're voting. There are 48 in attendance, 44 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 60 has been adopted. We are now deciding on Article 7 as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 in attendance, 46 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 8 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u243	I waited for someone else to come forward so they wouldn't say that I had discussed it before you proposed and explained the amendment. So if you'll excuse me, I'll be faster if I have to. Of course, clearly, the government opposes the first amendment to Article 8 under order number 1, namely that the word "government" is replaced by the word "agency". We believe, however, that Article 4 - that in view of the development of the postal sector, the Agency should not, by regulation, reduce the volume of reserved postal services so that only the government can do so. And I think that if we have discussed earlier that the government should have jurisdiction over certain matters here, it is only right that the government, not the agency, has jurisdiction in such an important matter. I think that this is also in line with the opinion delivered by the secretariat, and I understand that it is also likely that the proposed amendments will be understood and supported and will not be supported by this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the amendment. We're voting. There are 55 present, 9 votes against 39. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 10 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 49 in attendance, 43 in favour, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 11 and on the three amendments of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And then there's the amendment under 3. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 13 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 17 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u245	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Here, of course, the government opposes the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. We believe, as the bill states, that when it comes to a change of permit procedure, the Agency must, at the same time as it does, notify the holder of the authorisation at the same time as soon as it does. I think it would be extremely inappropriate for the holder of an authorisation to know that something like this is happening only after he is already in the process. I think that would be contrary to the general rules of legal procedure, administrative procedures and so on. It is so urgent that the notification is immediately or at the same time urgent and, of course, we do not agree with the amendment to Article 17. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. The vote was 16 to 33. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 18 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention again. This is the second time we've voted on the government's amendment. We're voting. The second vote was not successful either. There's enough of us in the hall. Unfortunately, the rules of procedure dictate that for at least three months there will be our duty, with a large number of amendments, to do what we do, so we are making a lot of votes, so that I ask you to cooperate in this exercise. I'm adjourning session in 10 minutes. We'll pick it up at 16.11. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u247	Please come to your seats. Article 18 is voted on in full for the third time. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the nineteenth Article and amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[There was a vote against it.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Articles 25 and three amendments to this Article, and the amendments under one and three are interlinked. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We're still deciding on an amendment under two. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under two has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under three. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. The vote was 49.) [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been adopted under three. We still decide on the 25th Article as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 25 is fully adopted. At the time of Article 19, I accidentally moved to Article 18 to a full vote. We are obliged to make further decisions on the amendment to this Article. We are voting on the amendment to Article 18 of which the Government is proposing. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 27 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 28 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the 31st Article and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 32 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 33 and on the four amendments to this Article. Under 1 the amendment of the Government, under 2 is an amendment which provides for an amendment to an article whose proposer is a group of Members with a first-signed Matjaž Švagan, with a footnote, if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under 3 and 4 of which the proposer is a government are irrelevant. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Schwagan, please. Then Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u248	We propose that paragraph 33 be amended by setting up an annual programme for the issue of ad hoc postage stamps because it means that it is only brands and events of a national character. Secondly, the economic company referred to in Article 64, which means that mail from a public undertaking changes within one year into a d.o.o., which is also, of course, the majority of the country's property, which means that there is no competition and that it decides on its own values, is said to be the majority of these European countries, that the Ministry or the State withdraws from issuing and, of course, creating the conditions of these stamps. I suggest we support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u250	The government opposes this amendment and invites Members and Members not to accept it. Above all, it must be said that we have discussed much about this, both by mail and, of course, by the Committee on the Economy. A simple first objection to such a written article is that this article is too narrow. Firstly, if we compare both articles, we will see that the second paragraph of the proposed article, which replaces the third paragraph in an article that is inside, actually reduces this and does not indicate what these postal values are and what all these matters are. In other words, notification, postage worldwide, and so on, it's not in there. It's actually a big flaw. Secondly, the minister's role is then reduced only to the setting of the programme of issue, not as it is in the bill and also with amendments, to determine the type, of course, description of these brands, the press, value and the series, it reads and so on. Once again, I would like to point out that informal brands are just like national symbols: such as the flag, such as an anthem, such as other symbols, are also optional brands. [[...]] It is therefore impossible to reduce this role of the ministry or government only to the issue programme and to leave everything to the economic operator. However, I would point out that once in the future, this has not yet been regulated in the European Union, it is likely that the issue of postal valuations will pass from these operators who carry out these services to a specific body - for example, in this case I could imagine once, it will also come to the agency and another public authority, because there will be a number of different operators. This is not in line with the trend in the European Union, and the explanation says that this is what postal administrations issue. Yeah, maybe the post office already, but not the mail administration. I would therefore also like to point out the lack of substantive interpretation and reasoning and propose to the Members, Members and Members that they do not accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to discuss it again, Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u252	So, I will support the amendment of the Group of Members. I understand, however, that the young and small ministry run by Minister Gantar is concerned that it will be full-time, but it seems to me that it is unnecessary for him to do such things that are not comparable to Europe as we have compared and as has been explained, and when it comes to purely professional matters. If you, Mr Minister, have already compared with national symbols, it is necessary to know that other countries also have national symbols and that they have probably changed their minds earlier when they gave the authority to the post office or to this economic association, and that a comparison can be drawn. As regards the shortcomings and the insufficient scope of the article, I propose that we confirm the amendment as proposed, and if there is anything else to be added to do in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u254	Once again, I would like to make it very clear that we are not proposing these solutions because we would have a small ministry that has nothing to do with it - you think we are dealing with informal stamps more than relatively little - so that we would really have my colleague, even a client, point out this matter and invite him to visit to see what else we are doing; we will also show what we are doing in the field of brands. Once again, I would like to point out clearly and thoroughly: by doing so, we actually retain some kind of monopoly of the current economic operator, the Post of Slovenia. And it is impossible for us to leave to him the things proposed by the Member. That is why I say once again, let us preserve the actual powers, as we have written in the law on the issue of informal postal stamps, and determine such priority, printing techniques and so on, the government or the ministry, not the Post Office of Slovenia, because it has not yet. I must say that this can be an important market and economic activity, which must be subject to this regulation, if these matters are not regulated, especially informal ones, because they can be very relaxed. I am absolutely opposed to this and, as I say, I once again suggest that this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Schwagan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u256	Thank you, Vice President. I am certainly in favour of the debate of Minister Gantar, but only if we do not have the monopoly services of Post Slovenia, which is the majority of the country's property. If there were no monopoly services by mail, this debate and this amendment would be irrelevant. When a non-monopoly situation occurs in Slovenia, however, it will certainly be necessary for the minister, the government, to determine what kind of brand should be, how these symbols should be defined. However, it is within the purview of this amendment that marks that are optional remain in the government's or the minister's interference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ogrinchev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I would like to explain and perhaps make a little contribution to this debate. I believe that the proposed solution should be assessed from the point of view of Article 32(2), where it is said how postal services are paid. Among other things, valid stamps are printed and stamped in the first place, which means that the price of the postal service is paid. And in view of this and as long as the state provides the bulk of the provision of universal postal services, of course, I believe that the only solution, as proposed in Article 33, is, of course, consistent with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment to Article 33 under order number 1. Let's vote! There are 61 of us present. It's 52 votes against 5. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 61 of us present. The vote was 37 to 19. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. Thus, the amendments under 3 and 4 became irrelevant and the article amended. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 34 and on the two amendments of the Government to this Article. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm moving on to a decision, first of all to an amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 56 of us present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 35 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 40 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 52 in attendance, 47 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 43 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 53 in attendance, 47 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 in attendance, 49 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 55 and on the three amendments, all of which are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 55 in attendance, 50 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We decide on the amendment under two. We're voting. There are 51 in attendance, 47 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under two has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under three. We're voting. There are 54 in attendance, 50 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been adopted under three. And a total of 55. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 48 votes against one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[I'm against it.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 56 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 57 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 59 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment proposed by Matjaž Švagan and Andrej Vizjak, under 2 is the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision, first of all to an amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 53 of us present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 60, and only on an amendment under order number 2, of which are Mr Matjaž Švagan and Mr Andrej Vizjak. We've already decided on amendment number one. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2. Just a moment, please. We're voting. There are 53 of us present. It was 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We decide on Article 60 as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 48 votes against one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have held a debate on the amendments tabled, and we are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Spindler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u260	We didn't vote on the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u261	I think we voted fully on the 60th Article at the end. We're not talking about the first amendment because we didn't have to, because we're already in touch with the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u262	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u263	You're welcome. Thank you so much for the warning, but sometimes it's in place. We are therefore going to discuss the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 10, 11, 13, 18, 19, 25, 27, 28, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 40, 43, 55, 56, 57, 59 and 60 have been adopted in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table amendments to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u264	I just want to say that I don't like the solution to stamps, of course, but the government doesn't intend to make an amendment, because there is no way against the majority will of the coalition, if I understand it, so we're not going to put an amendment here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u265	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, though. As far as I could speak as a member of Parliament, I understood the secretariat, it was warned that the amendment adopted was inappropriate. Mrs. Ogrinchev, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Well, just like I warned you. At the time of the adoption of the amendment to Article 33 and which received support, the issue of jurisdiction to issue a postage stamp is linked to the solutions in Article 32, where solutions are given regarding the method of payment of postal services. The way postal services are paid, and this is the real question of price formation, which affects the conditions for the provision of postal services, in particular universal postal services, which are carried out throughout the country. Taking into account the provisions of Article 4 in the first paragraph, what the State provides, and taking into account the solutions in Article 6 in the first paragraph, to which the universal postal service provider is entitled throughout the whole country, means that the price issue also directly affects the conditions for the provision of these services and the amount of the necessary contribution to the creation of compensation. I believe that all these solutions need to be assessed in a coherent manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u267	Thank you very much. On the basis of the Secretariat's warning, I ask qualified motioners, Mr Minister, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u268	However, as I have previously reacted, I would still suggest that the third hearing be suspended and that we prepare an amendment and try to persuade Members and Members once again to accept the amendments of the governments in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u269	Thank you very much. It is customary for a third reading, if qualified applicants wish to prepare an amendment within the framework of a rapid procedure, to terminate the examination at this stage for the preparation of amendments under the third reading. We're breaking up at this point. Procedural proposal. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u270	If the proposer proposes a harmonisation amendment, he would point out only one more detail, which is of a more nomological nature. In Article 60, the text should be moved to a denied parent. I don't think it's worth making an amendment, but it probably would suggest we don't forget that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I therefore interrupt, in the context of the third reading for the submission of amendments, which, of course, may be submitted by qualified applicants. Representatives of the government and representatives of the secretariat thank you very much. We'll continue when those amendments are on the bench. And we're moving on to 9. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE RURAL LAW. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the crafts law, the reduced procedure, was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word? Minister of Economic Affairs Dr. Tea Petrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u272	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! Well, in fact, there are only two amendments to the law on changes and additions to the craftsmen's law. The first is that this law would allow the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to arrange a trade register, because it also belongs to it under its official responsibility, and then the register in this way aligns it with the actual situation. Another major change is to align the principles of this law with the adopted tax service law, which alone does not provide sufficient grounds for enforcement. In view of the above, it was necessary to amend the substantive amendment of the system material regulation in the field of crafts, which would also allow recovery. Therefore, Article 39(3) provides that the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia may, by contract, transfer to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia the dosage, collection and recovery of the membership fee. In this way, the status of the Chamber of Commerce as regards the collection of memberships and the recovery of memberships is also equivalent to that of other similar institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u273	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Ferry Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. The Committee has considered the proposal of the law as its parent working body and supports it. As we have heard from the Minister, the first change concerns the trade register. In the second amendment, which is even more important after the Committee's finding, allow me a few words, as this also refers to the amendment which was subsequently tabled and which are essentially trying to annul the substance of the amendment of this law. The amendment also essentially means the implementation of the conclusions adopted by the Committee on the Economy when it addressed the issue of trade, as well as the conclusions of the National Assembly on the dosage, collection and recovery of membership for the Chamber of Commerce. In doing so, I would like to point out that the Committee has adopted the same decision, where it has proposed that the amendment of this law should also be accompanied by an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the provisions of the Economic Chamber Act concerning the dosage, collection and recovery of contributions. He could also quote a decision or explanation from the Constitutional Court when it was decided and in fact obliged the legislator to adopt the proposed amendment. We therefore propose that the assembly adopt the bill as proposed, together with the amendment of the committee. It also follows that it does not accept the two amendments, which were subsequently proposed after the meeting of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] That is why I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm concluding the debate. We are moving on to a second reading, namely to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. As the chairman of the committee has said, the proposal has two articles and we also have amendments. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 1. There are no amendments to Article 1. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to decision-making on Article 1. We're voting. The first vote was not successful, I think due to a lack of attention. I very much ask, honourable Members, that we take part in this vote. The second time, we will vote on Article 1. We'll vote next time. There are 47 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2 and on the three amendments to this Article. First, we will decide on an amendment whose proposer is mag. Janez Drobnič, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, will become an amendment, the proposed amendment of which is an economic committee - and we will decide on it as a second one - and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members is irrelevant. So I am opening a debate on the three amendments. The first one on which we will vote is Janez Drobnič, the second on which we will vote is the amendment of the committee and the third SDS. I am opening a debate on Article 2 and on all three amendments. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u276	Madam President, I am withdrawing my amendment, so it is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u277	Thank you very much. This means that we have, in the debate and in the decision-making process, the following order of order: the amendment of the committee and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm concluding the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. First, we vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 2. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment of the committee has been adopted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 11 votes against 24. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the amendment of the Group of Members has not been adopted. We decide on Article 2 as a whole. We're voting. There's enough of us in the hall. The first vote on the article has not been fully successful, so I ask for some attention again. Secondly, we vote on Article 2 in full. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. In the debate and decision-making I am also giving Article 3 which regulates the validity of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Article 2 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? Since there are no amendments to the third reading, I ask the representative of the Secretariat whether compliance may have been violated. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the secretariat and the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW - A HITTY PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I very much welcome the representatives of the government between us. Does the representative of the government want a word? Ms. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u278	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Fees submitted by the Government for consideration contains two sets of necessary amendments. The first set of contents represents important changes for the further development of the anti-bicratic programme and the wider introduction of electronic commerce in the state administration. These are amendments to the provisions laying down the method of payment of administrative fees. The amendments will allow fees to be paid not only in cash and with administrative stakes, but also in all other means of payment, such as payment cards and electronic money. The second set of issues covered by the law is the harmonisation of the legal matter with the changes in material regulations adopted following the recent amendments to the Administrative Tax Act and the elimination of the individual inconsistencies that have been demonstrated by the practice so far. The Government proposes that you adopt the amendment and the amendment of the law in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u279	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Cyril Pucko, chairman of the board, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! That bill was considered by the Committee at the beginning of this month. He agreed with the method of acceptance itself, it's a quick procedure. However, in the debate, members of the Committee noted that, in order to ensure the introduction of an anti-birocratic programme or a more favourable red tape for citizens, it would be appropriate for both administrative units and administrative authorities to have the possibility of having a direct view of the electronic management of the official records for which they were competent to obtain the data. On the subject, according to the opinion expressed, it was essential to contribute to citizens' friendly bureaucracy and, last but not least, to the appreciation of procedures for citizens. In the examination of the individual articles, an explanation was provided on the location or indemnity of the increase in the fee for the conclusion of the marriage in Article 16 and in the reply of the representatives of the proposers indicated that it had been a long time since the end of the 1970s that it had not been harmonised and therefore it was essentially only to adjust this price to the current situation. In addition, last year's amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which provides for a specific sub-legal act which will set out the minimum formalities and ceremonies to be provided for at each official unit for the formal conclusion of the marriage. These minimum standards increase the cost of concluding or managing that official act. For this reason, the proposal of the competent ministry included an appropriate increase in this administrative fee, which would also indirectly address the issue of funding to individual municipalities where this would not happen for such or other reasons. In this way, it would also provide in particular a so-called minimum cultural standard in the conclusion of a marriage, which is at present very different regardless of the different situations in each local community. The Committee adopted certain amendments, namely Articles 3, 4, 10, 11, 14 and 29 and 30. I suggest that the National Assembly supports this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on the proposal. We're voting. The first vote on the proposal was not successful. I think there's enough of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention again. Secondly, we vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. The second vote was not successful either. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I terminate work for 10 minutes. We continue at 5 p.m. and 16 minutes when we vote on the proposal for the third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u282	Your Honor! As announced, we will have a third vote on the proposal to discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on the proposal for a decision for the third time. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 24.4.2002. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Committee on Finance to this Article, noting that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the Committee to Article 30. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u283	I do not support the amendment to Article 3, and I propose that it should not be accepted, because it is time-consuming, from the past period. In fact, in March or February of the month, we have adopted arrangements for payment by electronic money, and in this article or this amendment, in fact, we provide that an administrative body which is not equipped, equipped or unable to equip itself or whatever else, may refuse to pay by electronic money to a party wishing to enforce it. I propose to amend the amendment to Article 30a, where it will set a transitional period and instruct the government to train all the authorities to train all those who deal with the parties and actually serve different forms of payment so that they can do so in the way that we imposed the Law on Payments before, I think, what month when we adopted it in this assembly. And two laws must be harmonised with each other in such a way that the whole operation is feasible. I wouldn't talk about, let's say in this age that we are now, and the age that comes, that this amendment sounds really, really, I'll say, over time, and so on, it can also allow officials to say, "I just couldn't equip myself, the country didn't give money, I didn't buy a postterminal, and so on and so on, and so I don't accept payment in electronic form." In the future, as is the case with phones now, that phones will be free of charge, we will only pay those services that we will use, and so will postterminate that this will become some cheap edge and something that will be available as a means, as a tool to provide a service, but the service will be charged at any rate that will be prescribed. I therefore propose that we do not accept this amendment and that a new Article 30a be corrected, which will regulate this transitional period.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u285	Your Honor! In the basic text of the bill, the Government proposed a provision with the same content between transitional and final provisions. According to the explanation for the amendment, the amendment has been prepared, on the basis of a proposal by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, and in line with this, although the Government also supports the content of the amendment, we do not object to this provision being placed between transitional and final provisions, and we propose to the National Assembly to define a sufficiently long transitional period allowing the Government to carry out public calls and all other procedures for the technical equipment of the administrative authorities. I would also point out that if the amendment to Article 3 is not adopted, it is linked to the amendment proposal to Article 30, which then remains in force. It might suggest considering adding the time component to Article 30, rather than Article 30a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vranitz. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u287	Such an amendment is driven by a modern understanding of the state administration's business. Indeed, that is why we have also prepared an amendment to Article 30a, which obliges the Ministry to ensure at some reasonable time, which is six months, the purchase of these apparatus that are not expensive. I don't know, now it's money for some missiles, focus or Falcone, and it's not for this. Colleagues, or government representatives, talk about a longer term. I hope this is not the deadline for another government to enforce this. Let us give some laws adopted that can go into the implementation domain of this government, and within a regular time frame, unless, of course, something happens quickly, the government will be replaced. But given how tight you are in the saddle, at least you feel, you don't believe that would happen. So we have proposed an article 30a, which is operational to ensure this, and this is also, in fact, this transitional period that allows this to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u289	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment myself, either, from one other point of view. I do not agree that we only accept the law for state administration, and we also accept it for all citizens who benefit from the services of the state administration. And if a citizen has electronic money, a card, we can't tie it to the fact that the government will equip itself with electronic postterminals, if he doesn't have money, and if it's related to the project, then he'll do "walk" [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 3. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, in favour of 8 votes against 31. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 31.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 42 votes against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. The non-acceptance of the amendment has therefore made the Committee's amendment irrelevant to Article 30. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 4 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 39 votes against none. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Dusan Vuka's amendment for a new Article 6a. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 19 votes against 18. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article 6a have been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 7 and the amendment of Janez Drobnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u291	Can we please re-vote? I was wrong, and I pressed "for." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u292	I propose that the vote be repeated to the assembly for its adoption. We're voting. For the first time, the vote on the proposal to repeat the vote on the amendment for the new Article 6a was unsuccessful, so I would like to ask your attention. We'll vote next time. We're voting. This is the second time we have not voted successfully. At 17.39 we will vote for the third time on a procedural proposal to repeat the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u293	Your Honor! Since we will be voting on the proposal by Josef Kavtičnik for a brief third time to repeat the vote on the procedural proposal to repeat the vote, we will vote for the third time. [[...]] Thirdly, we will vote on a procedural proposal to repeat the vote on Dusan Vukko's amendment for the new Article 6a. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. There were 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal to repeat the vote on the amendment for the new Article 6a is adopted. An explanation of the voice? Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u294	Thank you, Madam President. I would explain my vote by voting in favour of this amendment. I'd like to explain why. Article 5, point 23, explicitly states which tariffs or which tariffs cannot be applied for exemption from a tax on the basis of poor property conditions. Given that this same law in the annex, which is a part of the tariff, states that foreigners may have this right, namely, 'an authority issuing a passport to a foreign refugee, the debtor may be exempt from the payment of a fee if it cannot be paid', it seems to me that it is also fair to treat foreign nationals and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia equally, that those who do not have enough resources or whose income is extremely low can be exempt from the payment of a fee, but only for the issuance of a passport and identity card as basic documents to prove their identity.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u296	If I thought earlier that I could support this amendment, I will certainly not, after this explanation, because it is a completely different logic if I ask for a refugee passport or a foreign citizen who would like to go into transit as soon as possible or anywhere else and does not have that money. This is not comparable to someone who cannot pay a tax which is a Slovenian citizen and can have social or any other support that he can receive and enforce, and it is also right to allow such Slovenian citizens to reach the Charter. However, it is not appropriate to compare these two things because it is a completely different issue. It is about someone who needs to get to the document, because otherwise it will be in the refugee camp and at the expense of this country and, of course, it will cost the country even more, because the point of course was in this. That's why I'm going to vote against it myself, like I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Because no one wants any more explanations of vote, Mr. Sok, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u298	No, I have no explanation for the vote, I would like to remind you, Madam President, of Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that the vote will be repeated without discussion. I think that you have violated the rules of procedure here and that you should not allow a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u299	Mr. Sok! It's not a debate. It is possible to explain to the vote before any vote that we have always allowed and had. We have voted on a procedural decision to move again to a decision on the amendment and there has been no debate on the re-decision, not at all because it has been concluded. However, at the decision-making stage, MEPs and Members may always explain their vote. Since no one wants to explain their vote, we are moving on to a decision on Dusan Vukko's amendment. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 12 to 35. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article 6a have not been adopted. Mr. Sok, there's so much more to explain. The explanation of the Rules of Procedure is also that, as long as we are able to re-vote, someone first explained his vote, and he may be allowed to vote in the second, re-vote. Even twice, someone can explain their voice. We turn to the debate and decision on Article 7 and the amendment of Mr Drobnic to this Article, with the note that this amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same motioner to Article 16 and is excluded by Mark Diac's amendment under Article 1 to 16. I am opening a debate on the amendment and the article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u300	Thank you so much for saying that. So, I propose in the amendment to allow for the exemption of the marriage tax. What is happening in Slovenia is that marriages are getting smaller and that this would at least be a symbolic contribution to making things easier and maybe becoming a slightly more orderly country. This amendment is very suitable for admission.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u302	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I am realistic and I know that Mr Drobnic's proposal will not go through this Parliament, I propose, with my amendment, at least that the fee remains the same as it has been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u304	Thank you very much. I will vote against this amendment. For a very clear reason, if there is ever money among young people, this is when marriages are formed. And there's no reason to let them pay the tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u306	Two amendments have been discussed, as was the debate on the working body, and they do not deserve support, for two reasons. First of all, it's minimum amounts, we're talking about absolute amounts, from 2,000 to 4,000 tolars. Secondly, we have already found on the committee that while the well-intentioned initiatives for these two amendments are more carefully focused on achieving a uniform higher standard of civil marriage ceremonies in Slovenia, rather than lowering the standard of music for a little money, little music or no money. Thus, we must insist on quality services in at least Slovenia and therefore I propose that these two amendments do not receive the support of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Replicas were reported, in the order of order, first Mr Pache, then Mr Diaci and Mr Drobnic. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u308	Instead of giving a gift to the newlyweds, Mr Pucko, you and everyone like you suggest that even the newlyweds give a gift to the state. It's true that the budgetary situation in this country is on the dog, but I personally don't think it's enough on the dog to accept your arguments. This is the fact that the newlyweds have money in this country. In addition, I think that it would be reasonable to take into account the amendment proposed by the Youth Party, including the need for more and better people to enter into marriages in this country. I think that this is one small contribution that this National Assembly could make to meet these solutions. I cannot agree with Mr Puck's assessment, and I am getting as far away from it as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u310	Thank you for your word. Here there is some interesting logic and it goes in the direction, first let us increase the price of the service and then we will increase the quality of the service. I think logic should be the other way around. First, let us find the quality of the service and then the price of this service. That's the first thing. On the other hand, it may be that youths have money when they are married or married. The fact is, many cases are such that when they divorce, they no longer have money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please, a replica. Then Mr. Battelli, including the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u312	I repeat to Mr. Kavčič. Mr. Kavčič! The payment of this fee has nothing to do with the service itself. The service as such goes from a second address and is drawn from the budget or should be provided by the State, but it does not. They do, they do, because it's not the same standard, and that's the whole story of it. So the tax itself, no administrative unit, but it doesn't get the right money for it, and that's why the standards are different. And it would be time to unify it. And I very much agree with Mr Pecett, instead of giving the state something on the ground of the marriage, at least it contributed to the "chain", the payment, and it takes it away from them. Listen, that's disgusting. I therefore propose that this be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, then Mr. Partlich. It's replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Something like, on purpose, I'm going to say "Scottish" is based on this amendment. And it turns out, let's get married, so we don't pay the tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Partlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u316	I think that Mr Battelli has already initiated the discussion, that is, it is not so little money that he would not think that there would be more marriages or less marriages. But if I were to use the logic of my colleague Cyril, I'd say so. Today, when youths say that they do not choose to have a child because they do not have the means to support a family, they would conclude that those who choose to have a child have the money and would also tax the start or production of children.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok. A replica or a debate. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u318	If you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u319	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u320	I personally think that this amendment, of course, if adopted, is a more expression of the country's sympathy for young people to make marriages more than they do in Slovenia. It would be interesting to hear how many people in this country live together and are not married. That information would probably put us on the top of the world. We call it living on corn. What problems arise when they divorce, and we know. So I think these arguments that this brings anything to the Treasury don't hold up and that this amendment could be accepted by a peaceful soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Two more replicas. First, Mr. Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u322	Thank you for your word. I repeat to the respectable Mr. Partlich. His argument about child reproduction, I don't think it's right. I think he must have been thinking differently 30 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u324	I am replicating Mr Sok, but I think that we are very banal about this issue and that we could stop doing this. I know a few couples who don't report and live in a good marriage with children and all the "boilers", but no one has ever said that they haven't married because they should pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u326	Thank you very much. I'm going to support the amendment, not because my colleague put it out of the party, but I remember vividly, today, 31 years ago, I took my choice to the home office and then to the altar. And that you should have any more of that worry, then by the way, you can forget to send them away. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And that red tape. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u327	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 7. We're voting. There are 55 present, 19 votes against 32. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted and has therefore become an amendment under order number 2 to Article 16 irrelevant. We decide on Article 7 as a whole. We're voting. There are 49 of us present. 33 votes against 11. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 10 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 present, 40 votes against 3. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 11 and the amendment of the Committee to amend this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and this amends the article. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 14 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. I am asking for a little more attention, I hope that today we will be deciding on this law - only a few articles are still ahead of us - can be completed because we have a second point tomorrow after the agreement to the college at 10 a.m. Secondly, we vote on Article 14 as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 16 and only on an amendment under order number 1 to this Article, with a footnote no longer in force. The amendment's proposal is Marko Diaci. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. The vote was 22 to 26. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. The vote is 39 to 9. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and to the decision on the amendment of Janez Drobnič for the new 30th paragraph, with a footnote, if this amendment is adopted, the vote on the amendment to the title for the 29th Article is irrelevant. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u328	I would like to propose an amendment to Article 30: In Article 30, a new second paragraph is added, which reads: "The Government and the competent authorities of the local communities must ensure, within one year, the technical equipment of the administrative authorities enabling the payment of fees by electronic money or other applicable payment instruments."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u329	Thank you very much. We heard the amendment. I'm asking if it'll be in writing. I'm opening the debate. [[...]] Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u330	Our proposal was for six months. The same is true, we believe that it is enough to provide, within six months, such devices, which are not a problem at all, and not accommodation. If every little rat with ice cream has this machine, then it's not a thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u332	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'd like to hear the government's opinion on this. It also seems to me that within six months it would be possible to arrange this, that it is not necessary in one year.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u334	Thank you very much. The six-month period is too short to perform this task for two reasons. For the first time, because the costs would burden the 2002 budget, which is not foreseen. Secondly, since the procedures to be carried out in order to obtain the necessary items are so complex in accordance with the Public Procurement Act that the six-month period is too short for this to be carried out. I therefore propose that we remain at the age of one year, as proposed by Mr Pucka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u336	Otherwise, I don't think that jobs will take a long time, I mean those that concern buying this equipment, because this equipment does not go beyond those numbers that you have to have those long invitations to tender for, but it will come under a tiny inventory. However, I am more interested in this second part of the amendment, which we are talking about, not only the ministry responsible for administration, but the government will take care of it with the local community authorities, because these things are already said to be in local offices, where local communities, together with administrative units, are regulating certain things. We believe that the amendment is broader and that it binds the government, not the specific ministry, because the organisation must be determined by the government and determined by the competent ones to do so. I agree with the government that it should be one year if this is really done.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u338	It is likely that, as usual, it will follow the government's position, but in doing so, the government representative would only point out that the Ministry of Finance sometimes adopts rules to which economic undertakings or other undertakings must adapt within less than half a year, which means significantly higher costs for those debtors. It would therefore seem more than reasonable to organize all of these people, who you consider to be the so-called anti-birocratic revolution, to do something that is a government priority - e-business. In fact, what someone in Slovenia can say can be organized - even in mountain huts and so on - is essentially what small societies can do. Therefore, it seems to me that when we in this package of major changes within the state administration are making such a big move that this small thing to ensure that the government can also make such a calculation, it should not be such a heavy burden, so I would support, despite all the amendments that speak of six months.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u340	Look, actually, this amendment of mine is superfluous. It's too much. The country should have taken care of it by now. But given the state's behavior, and that's what I assumed was just this behavior, it's got to be tied down, that's all "catch" of it. And I would totally agree with my colleague Skołcz that - this should have been known by the state long ago to do so because it reduces costs, reduces species, reduces citizens' embarrassment. Let's make a country that's friendly to the citizens and without any heavy costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the Lord [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] That's all I need to explain. Ambassador Anton Anderlič's amendment for a new second paragraph is the amendment to Article 30, which states: "The Government and the competent authorities of the local community must ensure, within one year of the implementation of this Act, the technical equipment of the administrative authorities which allows the payment of fees to the administrative authority by electronic money or other applicable means of payment." If this amendment is adopted, the amendment for the new 30a paragraph below and the amendment to the title for Article 29 shall be irrelevant. That's all there is to a warning. We are now discussing the amendment to Article 30. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u342	Thank you very much. I propose an amendment to this amendment to shorten one year to six months. If you'll excuse me. Personal experience, I am talking about personal experience because of the general experience of citizens in this country. The Koper administrative unit has recently done this. I've been waiting in line for my ID for about 20 minutes. When I got to the counter, they asked me if I had a ticket. I said, "What position?" "Yes, you have to pay a taxi with a ticket." I had to go to the bank, I could go to the post office, and I had to go to the bank, I paid the checkbook, I came back to the administrative unit, I had to go back, I had to make the line on the counter again, because she was a mother with two children from about 8 to 12 years old, who, of course, had already had a ticket and then she paid, because these kids from 12 years old, they have to have a personal document if they want to get out of the country with their parents. Let's not talk about how much it costs people. But anyway, I had to do the same thing when the other species was out there for a passport. I don't know, I may have messed up, but anyway, you have to have a ticket to do it. In short, the sotropes were at least there, let's say in all this time, 150, on Monday morning, when people are working. So, after an hour or two, people were supposed to be working on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli! I have a written amendment from Ambassador Anton Anderlich before me. If you are making an amendment to the amendment, please also make it in writing. Unless Mr. Anderlich changes it. I'm asking, Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Battelli is proposing an amendment to the amendment. Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u344	Thank you for your word. So we're arguing about something we don't even know what it is. I'd like to ask if we even know how much it costs. If the Ministry's representative estimates that this is, I'm thinking, 1,000 tolars, then we're arguing over a shadow address. But if they're bigger numbers, I don't know what that is, so I'm asking. [[...]] You probably know government Members because you so vehemently say that this is a simple matter. But first, I'd ask myself how much it costs not to lose any invitations and my husband's relatives, and the principal's relatives, and so on. It's just past the beam. I'd like to know first of all if we have any idea what kind of money we're talking about. That would be a first. Because, after all, if it comes from funds where the government will have to give something and local communities, it is essentially budget money. How you deal with budget money, we probably know. The procedure doesn't just go home. If that was so far, I think it would be time for us to work differently. That's one. Now, Madam President, I hope you won't mind me taking this opportunity to replicate Mr Battelli at the same time. I was also looking for a new ID that he was talking about 14 days ago, and I could pay with cash and I could pay with a credit card. Let them leave your administrative unit, I don't know, our administrative unit, and ask them how it's easier to do business. But what I'm saying is, just because we write something in the law doesn't mean that all of you, in Styria, will be doing what is appropriate. Even now, it can be handled differently than it can be. It is said that the present law also makes this possible. And if we write anything together, it probably won't be any better in Cyprus. So, if they're running some kind of bureaucracy or some kind of will, that's the thing about the people who work there. But my primary purpose was to want to hear how much it would cost. Really. I think others would like to know whether we're arguing over a shadow address or a value that has some meaning that we can spend so much time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr Rokavec, then Mrs Kamnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u346	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would suggest that the National Assembly decide to complete the examination and to conclude the decision on this law today. Before we get Mr. Anderlich's amendment to the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u347	Thank you very much, Mr. Rokavec. As you are aware, within the framework of a rapid procedure an amendment can be tabled, which is said to have been written, has been read twice. You want me to reproduce? I think the text was clearly presented. Mrs. Kamner, please. We'll explain the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u348	Thank you very much. Just because you decide that the deadline is one year does not mean that the state or government will not do everything in order to make this happen within a shorter period of time. But it's two things that need to be done. Contracts with all banks should be concluded and a commission fixed. The card payment commission will, of course, burden the state budget or municipal budgets. This cost will not or will not pass on to those who pay taxes. A rough estimate, of course, I do not have at this time, a rough estimate of about 500 million tolars at the state level. I don't know how much this is at the municipal level right now. Another is the rental of postterminals, which will also have to be provided. But this is not a huge cost, which, of course, will weigh either municipal budgets or state budgets. If you decide in six months, of course we'll do everything we can to hold on to that hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u349	Thank you very much. According to Mr. Rokavac's request, in a few minutes, Tonet Anderlich's amendment will be on the bench. If honourable Members and Members agree, we have two amendments to the draft law on third reading postal services on the bench to vote on these two amendments at the time of gaining the bench. Both amendments are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 4 and Article 33. Are you opposed to this, Mr. Schvagan?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u350	The group of signatories that we have tabled the amendment propose that this be moved to tomorrow's meeting because we are preparing a new amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Okay, then we're waiting for Mr. Battelli, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u352	I'm not going to table an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u353	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u354	They're not given or conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u355	Mr Battelli may, by the end of the debate, which I have not yet concluded at the time of the consideration of Article 30, also submit an amendment to the amendment. They're business terms. I apologize, but there are only three more votes, and I would like to conclude with the consideration of this law. May I have your attention, please? Mr. Rokavec wanted the written form of the amendment on the bench. We have always agreed with the wishes of Members and Members. It is sufficient for the investor to make an official submission in writing. We have always taken these wishes of Members and Members into account, so of course I am very sorry that there is something over work time. However, I think that sometimes we can take a few minutes of regular working hours of our own, so I think we can still do these three votes. In the meantime, I should like to announce that we will continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the consideration of the 20th item of the agenda, then with the consideration of agenda items 14 and 18 and with the consideration of item 34, in the event that the mother's working body prepares it. At 13.30 a.m. tomorrow, the Internal Policy Committee will continue its consideration of item 5 of the agenda, and if the debate is concluded, the assembly will begin its afternoon session by discussing item 5 of the agenda, which is a proposal for a law on civil servants. Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec read the amendment. He says he doesn't ask anymore. If there are no requests from others and if there is no further discussion, I am concluding the debate and we can therefore proceed to a decision on the amendment of Mr Anton Anderlič to Article 30. If adopted, the amendments below, which are under review on page 5, for the new 30a Article and for the title for Article 29, shall be irrelevant. We are voting on the amendment to Article 30. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. I think there's enough of us in the hall, so I'd like to have a moment of your attention. The second time we will vote on the amendment to Article 30. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 41 votes against one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The vote was again unsuccessful. I'm asking for a little more attention. There's enough of us in the hall. We decide the whole article, secondly. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the decision on the remaining articles. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. The vote was 43 to 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We're moving on to the title debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that in the second reading the amendments to Articles 4, 10, 11, 14, 30 were adopted. If qualified investors wish to submit an amendment to this Article, please do so. Before that, I ask if anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. [[No, no, ……]] I ask the secretariat whether the amendments that have been adopted have disrupted mutual compliance? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the secretariat and the government very much. Notice of continuation of the sitting. Mr. Lavrinz, please. One moment more, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u356	If you'll allow me because they say it's already been delivered for other points this afternoon, and so that public servants can also do it in the morning, I'd like to ask everyone who is members of the Internal Policy Committee to come to the Internal Policy Committee meeting at 9 a.m. We will finish the Law on Public Servants, prepare a report, and then continue to do so this afternoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u357	This afternoon at 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much. So tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. in Mr. Lavrinc's room. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u358	The board meeting is tomorrow at 9:00 in room 212.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-24-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u359	Thank you very much. 9:00 a.m. in room 212. Only Mr Švagan had previously announced amendments to point 8 in the agreement. Mr. Schwagan, I'm asking you, will these amendments be at 10 a.m., and at 10 a.m., could they vote on the third hearing? [[Yeah.]] If the amendments are made, we will vote on the 8th item of the agenda at 10 a.m. and then, as I announced, move on to 20th, 14th, 18th and 34th, and on 5th as soon as it is ready, expected in the afternoon part at 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much. Good night!
