ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u1	I begin the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Janko Weber, Anton Delak, Roman Jakič, Maximilian Lavrinc, Alexander Merlo, Jožef Školč, Davorin Terčon, Flower Zalokar Orazem, Alojz Peterle, Jože Jerovšek, Richard Beumann, mag. Janez Kramberger, Alojz Sok, Roberto Battelli, Yuri Malovra for the afternoon part of the session, Bogdan Barovič until 12:00 and Cyril Pucko, Blaž Kavčič for the beginning of the session. Please, let's find out who's here. Insert the cards and press "quorum". Please. 53 Members and Members are present. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, here is the Secretary of State Mrs Astrid Prašnikar, whom I welcome very much. Today's continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of yesterday's interrupted point 1.a - this is the continuation of the procedure under Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and the determination of their areas. To this end, the assembly will proceed to the consideration of point 1.b- this is a proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 1998; and in order to proceed further. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm moving on to today's adjourned 1st A-point of the agenda. AND 14. Article of the Act on the procedure for the establishment of municipalities and the determination of their areas. We continue to discuss and vote on the amendments tabled to the proposal for a decision. We have two copies, if you please, you can pay attention to that. First of all, the material bearing the title of the Review of the amendments to the proposal for a decision under Article 13 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and for the determination of their areas - a one-phase procedure. So that's the conclusion. And other material, the amendment proposal for a decision under Article 14. So, first of all, we're going to go after the first piece - because yesterday we started with this - when we finish this paper, when we finish the discussion and decide on this material, we will continue with the decision. So, first it's a decision and then it's a decision. The contents are the same for now, we will see what happens after the debate, and then we will continue to make decisions. I ask the head of the SLS + SKD Group, or the SLS, which requested the committee yesterday, Mr Podobnik, whether he wants a word. Please, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that, not only has our business proposal and the expectation that we have been given a break for consultation, it is only reasonable that the National Assembly is before the continuation of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u3	Could I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u4	the decision-making received a review of the amendments. [[...]] Yesterday, I said quickly, too, that some texts had been written vaguely. Now, I think the review of the amendments is clear that we will know exactly what we are deciding. By the way, we were a little surprised when most in the National Assembly did not allow us to have at least a review of the amendments. This was a little bit of a surprise, and when we go into changes in the rules of procedure, please note that there will be a possibility of at least a so-called break for the parliamentary groups, in such cases a person withdraws the overwhelming enthusiasm of the majority in the National Assembly. I will personally be very careful here with any change. We are proposing a very substantive debate in the Group of Members. Each amendment and proposal will be decided individually in our parliamentary group. This is the only corrective approach. That is why we are looking forward to a dialogue here with government representatives. Actually, it's supposed to happen on the working body, you know, here. We propose and will do so ourselves to ask ourselves, in any case, whether the proposed referendum area is within the framework of the constitutional concept of the municipality. I suggest that we, in any case, ask ourselves whether the criteria are met relatively or absolutely. The Government, in its opinion and in this decision, has written exactly what is to be relative and which is absolute. But the key question is, and this is the task of the National Assembly, also on the basis of a decision by the Constitutional Court to consider where exceptions will be taken into account. This is the only responsible and correct attitude towards proposals for a new referendum area. That's how we're gonna do it. From case to case. And we'll make different decisions. We propose and expect - there is no way to vote in this package to support everything or reject everything, because the proposals are very different according to their content. From the case to the case, we will call if necessary, ask the representatives of the government why they have written this and this in their opinion and, in particular, try to make a very responsible decision after the exceptions. In this regard, we also assess that yesterday's decision by the Group of Members to request a recess made sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I suggest we just get to work. First of all, it is the material entitled Review of amendments to the proposal for a decision. Here you have a footnote and, just in case, I will read it: The decision on the amendments adopted to the proposal for a decision will also result in a change in the decision proposed by the Internal Policy Committee. This means that a change of material, where the word is a decision, is the result of a text which has the title of the decree. Because things have to be covered. It is so clear how we will vote on the matter and how we will deal with it in the end. If we do not accept the amendment, then it is pointless to discuss this amendment. First, we have an amendment to point I. A, point 1, serial number 1 on page 1. Anybody want a word? Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, I would like to take the view that we support the deletion from the Government's proposal for a decision under the Roman number one a, point a, which states that the municipality of Bled, the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Gore, notes that it does not meet the following conditions under the law for the establishment of a municipality or for the modification of their areas, including this proposal. We are convinced that the proposed Municipality of Gore, with 2,909, with almost 3,000 inhabitants, is a whole. We will also vote in favour of this amendment because the proposed municipal council of the congregation is Bled, and because of our general direction, it is necessary for all the initiators to be given the opportunity to make their will known and express their will in the proposed area of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you. On behalf of our Group of Members, I would like to say that, given today's vote on whether those who have expressed their wish to have consultative referendums in their areas, this will be possible, we will vote in favour of all proposals. It is a pity that we did not generally decide on this in this way in Parliament yesterday, because the possibility that some will succeed today and others will not, of course, create additional tensions and the additional fact that we have two types of citizens in this country. Some are enabled to go to a referendum, others are not enabled. We are confident that this opportunity should be made possible for all and then, on the basis of the success or failure of the referendum, decide on all the environments where the referendums will be successful, especially, and then take into account all the reasons set out in Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, which speaks of some historical, demographic, border and other reasons where the congregation can be established, even though there are no 5,000 inhabitants. Any other decision of this national assembly will result in a series of complaints before the Constitutional Court; advocates or proponents will even file a complaint before the European Court. I do not know how Slovenia, in all these years, will not change the law on the financing of municipalities, the law on local self-government, the law on the establishment of municipalities, how Slovenia can defend this inequality of our citizens and citizens before the constitution before joining the European Union. I propose to Members and Members that we be wise in these decisions and today, when we do not decide on the formation of the congregations, but we decide whether the right and the possibility of people at the referendum being declared at all, whether they want the congregation or not, because we do not know at this point that this is an option today for all those who propose future invitations to referenda, we also make it possible and welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out that we are discussing a very specific amendment that the general debate was yesterday, today only about the amendment very specifically at a single point. But I understand your debate that this is actually a whole set of amendments. Thank you very much. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Very substantive on the proposed amendment. It is therefore the decision of the majority of the national assembly or the proposal to decide on the refendum area of Gore or to meet the following criteria. For the first time, whether or not it meets the constitutional concept of the congregation. That's the first question. On the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court, I am fully responsible to claim that it fulfils it. This is a decision of the Constitutional Court U1 119/98. If anyone is interested, I can also define in more detail what these elements are. The second issue is very important and touches on the issue of the government's opinion, which is all the necessary conditions for the establishment of a congregation. Of course, it is their absolute and relative understanding. Here I would like to ask a government representative for a concrete response. The opinion states that primary healthcare for citizens is not provided in this area. However, I would like to remind you, of course, that in its opinion the government has explicitly stated that primary health care for citizens is a relative condition. If it's a relative condition, why do you write it? Here is the first illogicality in the government's opinion and I would like a very clear answer. In your opinion, you have written down what conditions are absolute and which are relative. The Constitutional Court has unequivocally stated that healthcare is not an absolute condition. Please simply explain why you wrote these terms, which have relative power. Next question, daily migration of the population goes beyond the borders of the present municipality of Bled. What does this information mean? Daily migration of Vrhnika, Logatec, Medvod. Do you know how much they go beyond the boundaries of their own congregation? What provision in the law has led you to write down in your opinion as an argument that you do not support this referendum area, that the day-to-day migration of the population is also beyond the limits of the present municipality. Where do you have the basis for such a position? In what provision of the law? Next question. The population satisfies the basic needs of life in the municipal court with which it is adequately linked. Of course, we've also acquired elaborates. I hope that fellow Members of Parliament have read this language. I hope that they have been read by at least all members of the Internal Policy and Justice Committee. If we read the lab, it says otherwise in the lab. Is that the reason? Why is this an argument that the government is rejecting it? The population meets the basic needs of life in the municipal center. The population of Škofljica, where does it satisfy the basic needs of life? Even in Ljubljana, not only in Skofljica. That's not an argument. That's not an argument. Look, on the basis of this substantive debate, I actually want to present the paradoxical approach of the government. It's a paradoxical approach. We have a law, we have a constitutional court decision. Indeed, we propose a referendum area, the municipality of Gore has less than 5,000 inhabitants. The fact is. Next step. The Constitutional Court’s decision made it clear that if this step is not met, we will go to other provisions. The first is which are absolute and the other relative conditions for the establishment of the congregation. The medical home is relative. We are therefore in compliance with this provision. But the third question is exceptions. Geographical, historical, economic, borderline. I ask you, representatives of the government, what possible exceptions have you considered in this case? Maybe it's in the geographic one that exists. Maybe the historical one that exists. Explain to me the argument why there is no historical reason that once the Municipality of Bled was an argument to establish it. And, of course, let's move on. If we reach the establishment of the referendum area of the municipality of Gore, the remaining congregation of Bled will meet all the conditions for the life of the congregation. And this is an additional and very important argument to enable this referendum area. What are we basing that on? This is justified by the question of the attitude towards the referendum. This is a very important question. This is also an important issue for those colleagues who say they will support all proposed referendum areas. The eminent constitutional judge wrote down the following. [[Pisk.]] "The only absolute condition..." Done? Restricted debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u11	Finish the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u12	On the basis of what provision of the Rules of Procedure is there limited discussion in the amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u13	That's right. This is the third debate and I agree with you that if we follow the logic of the third hearing, there is no limit to the debate. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u14	I do not think there are any commercial reasons for limiting the debate if we properly interpret the rules in force. A very important question, however, is the attitude towards the referendum. The only absolute condition that must be laid down in order to establish a new municipality is the prior invitation to tender and the implementation of a local referendum on the basis of which the majority will of the local community to establish a municipality on its territory. If the National Assembly does not sign a referendum, it will ultimately prevent the local population from establishing municipalities. However, if it is signed, the establishment of a new congregation is not yet definitively decided. That is why the legislator must be as limited as possible when deciding on a referendum. The decision not to sign is, in fact, a stronger reference to the constitutional right to local self-government than in the reverse case to a positive decision. What does this statement mean? That, in the case of such cases, such cases would also be on our benches - if they had called for a referendum and if the referendum had been successful and the rest of the congregation would not have met the requirements for the congregation, it would have been irresponsible to call a referendum, because the referendum could have been successful, but in the second phase the State Assembly should not have set up such a congregation. In the case ahead, however, we meet all the legal criteria and decisions of the Constitutional Court and can vote in favour of establishing this referendum area. The decision of the majority may be different, but I would like before that, Mr Vice-President, to allow representatives of the government to answer three questions raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. First, an explanation as to the limitation of the debate. If we are in the third reading, then the point is: "After Article 67, when the order of the notified debaters is exhausted - because this was not the case - the chairman asks whether anyone else wants to discuss. The debate of those who apply for this call may be limited by the chairman for a certain period of time, but not for less than five minutes. The provisions of the preceding two paragraphs shall not apply to the second reading of the proposal." We are now in third reading, and it would be logical to have a limited debate for five minutes. I believe that one of you will disagree with this, but that is what Article 67 says. Since this is a one-phase procedure, the logic of the third reading applies. So much for an explanation. We still have a number of debaters. Mr Janša is here first, then Mr Rupar and please Mr Janša. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. This topic was already, and before that, in 1994, when we went to the first reform of local self-government, quite tantalizing. There was a lot of dilemma, and those dilemmas were being resolved. This is the third time we've done this. Because of the practice so far, because of the constitutional provisions, and also because of what has been happening in the decision-making process on the new municipalities, in the previous two cases, I will support this amendment, which is now before us, as well as everyone else. I simply think that because of the constitutional concept of local self-government, which is above all sub-legislative acts and also laws, the National Assembly simply does not have the right to deny this right to people who decide, through the procedure prescribed, to demand their own municipality. I think that according to the spirit of the Slovenian Constitution, the National Assembly does not have this right; it does not have the right to prevent people who want their own congregation from doing so, this initiative will be checked at a referendum where all the people living in that area will be able to make informed decisions. If this right is denied to them by the National Assembly, it will practically suspend the procedure and, as the speaker said before me, avoid further activities when it comes to deciding on the new congregation. It is also contrary to the spirit of the Constitution that, until now, we are twice or that the legislator has so far afforded two times to people within the same constitutional framework, the same legal and most sub-legislative acts, and now it does not arbitrarily allow them this right. Although the system is completely the same and constitutional, legislation has not changed significantly at this time and nothing else has changed. As has already been said, in Slovenia there are almost half of municipalities that do not meet the key criteria which the government has now taken as an argument to oppose any referendum. If the National Assembly now follows this direction from the government, then it puts citizens in a very unequal position in that country - those who under the same rules had the opportunity to carry out a procedure and also establish a new municipality, and those who do not have these options under the same rules. I think this is the reason, not only for constitutional disputes before our constitutional court, but also before the European institutions, for sure. We shouldn't be making illusions about what's going to happen. That is why, in fact, in this amendment, when it comes to the congregation of Gore, as well as with all others, I appeal to all of us to give people the opportunity to make a statement about whether they want to have their own congregation. Further procedures are known, we are now deciding whether people will have the right to decide. In my opinion, denying this right is not within the constitutional competence of the National Assembly, however the law in this procedure of setting up municipalities gives the National Assembly that formal jurisdiction. That is why I am actually appealing, even because the government has completely failed in this process, because it has followed a political decision in the coalition or elsewhere, so that there will be no new congregations, the individual cases have not actually been examined at all. She put cases in the same basket, which also differ greatly. This is also why the National Assembly is now likely to lose a few days of time because it will also have to correct what the government has not done - to go into concrete terms, to discuss these matters, to look for arguments and thus to replace very flat-rate positions in the government's opinion. Yesterday, the minister said, "I think we talked to almost half the initiators" - under what criteria, I would ask him what criterion. Probably only with those who were so persistent that they were staying in his office until he accepted them, or in the offices of the secretary of state or anyone else. Surely, at least a basic hearing, a basic contact with the initiators would be urgently needed. Since this is not the case, it is very difficult for the government to argue that it is proposing a package rejection of these initiatives on the basis of a thorough reflection. At least what was lacking in this consideration was that at least they would listen to the arguments of the initiators. And all this failure, all these mistakes, all this failure in the whole process has now, of course, gathered into this hall, where it will be up to us to decide and discuss things that the government should have cleared up before. However, this would, of course, lead the government into danger of not being able to take any formal basis on the basis of a previous political decision. This was: there will be no new congregations. As has already been said, I think no one in this country, as long as the present constitution applies, has the right to say it at this stage. After more than half the citizens have made this process possible, now someone under the same rules of the game says: "Next, this will not apply." You know that this is not going to hold up the state's judgment, not the judgment of the European institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! So that I do not abuse the rules of procedure too much, let me first say that I will support this amendment because the government's opinion is not enough for me. That only the number of inhabitants should be the reason that the municipality of Zgornje Gore was not set up seems inappropriate, too little. It is a pity, because in these opinions - but now I speak a little more generally - I do not see anywhere a positive position or positive arguments that could, irrespective of the government's final assessment, be mentioned as well. For example, the Municipality of Gore still takes over the territory of Zatrnik, which are touristic, where the income is large enough to cover a large part of the ring forests, which can also income, that the traps of course write down that there is no healthcare home. But that was both fitting and valuable to write. Personally, I do not think that the arguments for any amendment mentioned here as an explanation hold any opinion. However, I am very interested in the attitude of government parties, with the exception of the people's party that we have heard, to the definition in the voting of these amendments. I am interested in the opinion of liberal democracy in general, but even more in the unified list. Why? Because yesterday I watched one of the videos on television where a representative of the last mentioned party said that he would now follow all the rules, all the laws of the new congregations. However, if I recall a bit of the last vote on the municipalities and the Municipality of Koper, and its views on defending constitutionally controversial definitions or areas, and on the contentious issues in Koper, a very large situation in the referendum, which we then confirmed as the will of the people, it seems to me extreme, not only rude, just ignorant to all those who now expect, on the basis of the same reasons and the same words, and the same vote, to come to their rights. I'm talking about rights. I'm stressing again. If all the initiators who have managed to establish their own congregations have had the right to a referendum, I say that regardless of the law, this right must also be granted to all those who wish to do so. If we want to stick to the law, which is the right thing to do, we should change it first. We are now in a situation where we need to move forward with practice and then define ourselves on the basis of the new law as we should have been long ago. I would therefore like to hear the opinion of the representatives of the said parliamentary groups on the definition of the decision-making of the referenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr. Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. I will also support this amendment to enable the people of the new municipality of Gore to express themselves or decide whether they want to have a separate congregation, given the fact that it has already been. This congregation already existed in history. In addition, I agree that all those missing conditions are not relevant or fall within the scope of the exceptions permitted by law. I believe that, given that we have as many as 95 municipalities that do not meet the legal condition on the number of people, and - again, I repeat - that we have only 28 municipalities that do not need financial compensation from the State, but seriously need to be asked what criteria did it decide at that time, experts decided when they proposed the establishment of these municipalities. I doubt that the criteria set out here have been met. I am intruding on whether any other experts are involved, from some more alcoholic and other knowledge, that we have the same situation as it is. That is why I think it is right for the inhabitants of Gorje to decide without any additional jury whether they want to have their own congregation and want to live alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. Zampernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. In our constitution, I think in Article 2, we are all equal before the law. Yesterday, there was a speech here that those of the previous term had certain traumas because we had decided at the time as we had decided, and that they somehow understood us. However, the conditions and rules of the game, as has been said many times, are exactly the same. However, I would like to remind you of one thing, because I am the mayor of one of the municipalities, which was then divided into two in the previous term. Look, I have here the conclusion of a commission now run by the same president as it was then. Of course, it is now a subcommission, which also points to the attitude of this present national assembly to this issue. And this is what the Commission said: the Commission supports the government's opinions and proposals for the establishment of new municipalities, for the change of areas and for the change of the name and seat of municipalities. And I'd like to emphasize one thing. Municipality of Luča by excluding the work of the municipality into the new municipality of Solčava. You probably know, but for those of you who don't know, this is the congregation I run. Until Solčava was eliminated, it had 2,200 inhabitants, now having 1,600 inhabitants, and solčava has 400 inhabitants. Now, to those who are on the balcony, and you have no right, of course, is a violation of that article of the Constitution that I mentioned earlier. Someone who has had the opportunity to leave 2,200 congregations in the municipality with 400 inhabitants is more the same or less the same before the law than those who now want to do so with 4900 others. She was mentioned several times yesterday, including her conscience, and I appeal to your conscience that we are trying somehow to unify ourselves in giving people the opportunity to express themselves at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support this amendment. I would like to remind my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament that they would, however, allow people to carry out these referendums, to the event that took place in the previous term. And it's right that we all know, even though there's probably a few things left to be forgotten. During the previous term of office, the National Assembly not only set up a referendum area but also established one of the municipalities in which it did not call for a referendum area. He established a congregation where the referendum area had not been declared. The established congregation was the pure political will of Parliament. And it's irrelevant today to talk and find out whether two classes have more than or one class, or 200 people or 500 people more or less. But the fact that it was such a political will at the time turned out to be the right thing to do, because the municipality works very well, it works well, it is one of the smaller municipalities in Slovenia, with 1,300 inhabitants, with about 17 square kilometers, but it works well and it is right that it was such a decision. And this is also one of the proofs that at least, at this point in time, it is necessary and necessary to give people the opportunity by the procedure provided by law and our constitution to decide for themselves. Colleagues and colleagues, we have no right to violate these procedural options. Therefore, I propose that we do not delay further procedures, that we vote and give the opportunity to decide what kind of environment those who live there want and want to live in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I think that yesterday's and today's debate shows that we don't have a basis, we don't have the right basis to decide so that we can make a sovereign decision. I wonder how I should decide, when I do not know all the reasons, all the criteria for individual proposals, which is the right thing to do with the proposals. We can't make differences, so I have to make the same decisions on my own. However, I think it would be wise for us, as legislators, to decide to actually give people the opportunity to decide on the referendum and to make it easier for us to work when we decide on the municipalities. I think that this is our duty and that we cannot hide, like the government, behind the backs of the national assembly, but we are in the eyes of the people, and I think we must show a democratic attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am not taking the right to suggest how someone should speak, but still. All the discussions held so far were an extension of yesterday's general debate. More skillfully, they put Goreje in the text and that's all. I would really suggest that we discuss the amendments as they are written. These were from Mr Janša forward all the general debates where we speak as if we were in the first debate. I don't think that's the point because we're talking about amendments. Let's stick to this, and then we'll figure out what someone thinks and how they feel about a certain story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kremjar. But I don't understand why you called in the replica because it wasn't a replica. I now conclude the debate if we are, please, Mr Kremjar again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u30	Can I replicate it for you?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u31	Always!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u32	Well, great, thank you very much. This was a replica of the implementation of Mrs Zupanova and the predecessors, who I reiterated to them that the topic of the debate is not a general debate, but we are talking about the amendment's proposal to establish the municipality of Gore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kremjar. Secretary of State, Mrs. Prašnikarova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to point out that we do not support a specific amendment and that we insist on the explanation that has been given - of course, I could say in plural, that is, on the explanations that have been given to each individual proposal. In particular, I would like to point out that our opinion has been prepared on the basis of a thorough examination of each of the proposals and of each of the documents transmitted to our office by the National Assembly for its opinion. The data were scrutinised, in particular as regards data on the number of inhabitants, the data which were, of course, in the laboratories, in the proposals were in a large number of cases - we also have records in the office and can also look at them - found to be incorrect. Thus, in essence, from the case in point to case, we examined first data on the number of people, as well as data on - as the minister pointed out yesterday - the existence of health care, health care, or health care, as well as schools. In many cases it was stated that there was a primary school, but of course together with the ministry responsible for this area, we found that the school So that the data was wrong and we corrected them was not a primary school, but a four-year school. [[...]] There have been many such cases. I strongly reject the obvious that we have not studied the material thoroughly. I can say that the entire service, in fact nine professional workers, as far as we are concerned in this local self-government office, has temporarily suspended us from everything, so to speak, to the rest of the necessary work, and that we have been given an accurate examination of the documents transmitted to us in the opinion. I would also like to point out the following, as the Minister has already mentioned yesterday, that the starting point for our work was the Government's decision, specifically stating that, in the formation of the new municipalities, the criteria set out in the law, both the criteria set out in Article 13, and - specifically mentioned - the criteria for the number of inhabitants, are consistently taken on the basis of the recommendation of the local and regional authorities' Congress, which states that it is necessary in Slovenia to comply with the law more consistently and to take into account the criteria and, in particular, as stated yesterday, the Minister specifically cited, to prevent further fragmentation. Finally, I hope to say that a larger number of congregations no longer constitute local self - government. The right, which was mentioned many times yesterday, is therefore not a right to local self-government, which is enshrined in the Constitution, to its own congregation. This reminds us that the government is primarily responsible in preparing this opinion to ensure that the municipalities established in our country are able to carry out the tasks enshrined in the law and that they will have to enable the population to exercise this right to local self-government in this municipality. Yesterday in the introduction, I mentioned the Constitutional Court's decision, let me sum it up, I will say only parts, individual parts of the constitutional decision. In our opinion, it is also important that part of the constitutional decision which states that the number of inhabitants is an important element of the local community, because this element is also decisive when we decide whether the municipality is able to carry out public tasks or is able to guarantee in its environment the right to local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u35	Three replicas so far, four. [[...]] Mr. Janša first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. The Secretary of State here said that the government had carefully examined each case. Exactly. Yesterday, the minister said they were able to talk to almost half the initiators. And now I ask the Secretary of State how this thorough examination of each case has been chosen by those with whom they have spoken and by those with whom they have not. That's the first question. The second question is: Exactly remember, there is also documentation that the government, in the previous term, explicitly supported the establishment of the municipality of Solčava with 400 inhabitants, which seceded from the very small municipality of Luče, which already had about 20,000 inhabitants. Now I wonder what the difference is, given that it was the same systemic framework, what led the government in this decision to support the municipality of Solčava and not the municipalities of Gore. I would like to ask for very specific and, of course, immediate answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you. Next replica, Mr. Sponik. Then Mr Sok, Mr Pukšič and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you, Vice President. Madam Secretary of State has not answered my questions which relate to the specific municipality of Gore. I'll ask you politely if you'll answer that question I asked. You said it was to prevent further fragmentation of the congregations. This can only be your political assessment. You can say that as a politician, not a secretary of state. You don't have a mandate in any law or stop it. Who accepted that? Show me the conclusion of the National Assembly or government to prevent further fragmentation. That was not a good statement. Number of inhabitants, quoting a Constitutional Court decision. To avoid misunderstandings, the number of inhabitants is an important criterion, but it is not crucial. We have a decision by the Constitutional Court, which here clearly discusses these issues. So, irresistiblely, I ask you why you wrote in your opinion "and the daily migrations of the population also go beyond the borders of the present municipality of Bled". What's the point here? I ask you kindly, Secretary of State, not to mention any more health homes, or to withdraw from the views you have put down in your opinion. I read: "The Government notes that only those criteria and conditions for the establishment of municipalities relating to the provision of public services for which it is already by the nature of the activity and by the rules governing the activity can be taken into account in a relative manner, it can be concluded that they must be provided for a larger number of people, such as the number of people who are in accordance with the law of the criteria for the establishment of municipalities. These are home libraries and health homes. That's the government's position. And I beg you to insist on him. Let's look at the lab. Let us take a look at the correctness of the municipality of Bled and the municipal council: the Municipality of Bled accepts the initiative of the local community of Gore as a proposal for the establishment of a new municipality and submits it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the decision to set the date of initiation of the procedure for the establishment of the municipality, recommending that the services of the basic unit of the Bled medical home and rescue station be used for the needs of the people of Gori. Excellent, correct political gesture of the Municipality of Bled. Additional argument. I ask that you simply do not operate with this information anymore, based on the views of the government that you have written in your opinion. I also ask you to answer my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Sok, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I would ask the Secretary of State to list the names of the half of the municipalities they consulted because the Minister spoke about it yesterday. Clearly, then, if you list all the congregations you have consulted, we will, of course, see which ones you are not with. That you've taken all the labs into account, that's also not true. If we applied the Eliberates, then I do not know why the two congregations in the area of the present congregation of Ormož would write that if two local communities were to be expelled to their congregations, there would be consequences for the conduct of economic public services. Can you explain the consequences? The opinion also stated that the two local communities mentioned were net recipients of the municipal budget. Can you explain that too? We have eight local communities, if all eight local communities are net recipients from the municipal budget, then tell me how this is possible. What does it even mean that they're a net receiver? What does this definition mean? You copied this from the point of view of the municipal council, which is just what it came to be, but you did not, of course, go to the labs because you would get some information and other orientations. You didn't talk to anyone who was hurt in the field either. I therefore insist once again that you list the half you consulted with me and why, as Ambassador Janš asked, you are with the others and not with the others. And I ask you nicely, this recommendation from the Congress of the Council of Europe and the criteria of the 5,000 inhabitants, leave this matter alone when we have already violated this criterion, or let us list the countries that have such criteria in their laws on the 5,000 inhabitants of the European Union, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Sok, I cannot allow such an answer to the Secretary of State. However, I will allow each amendment to answer the question whether she has spoken with a specific congregation or not. We are now on the first amendment, we are discussing this and we expect an answer to your question. Mr Rupar, who is not in the Chamber right now, has the following replica, so Mr Sušnik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have heard the Secretary of State say that there is no valid reason for exception in terms of the prescribed number of inhabitants, regardless of the fact that it is clearly stated in Article 13a that this exception is possible when it comes to the establishment of a new congregation for historical reasons. Now I am specifically asking whether there is a sufficient tradition of local self-government in the region of Gori, which is mentioned in the Eliberate and which clearly shows that in this area the municipality was from 1849 to 1953 when the municipality was abolished. Here was a very successful congregation for a hundred years and a few years to take care of its premises by building a Gorjana home where the congregation of Gorje worked; that, last but not least, this congregation has taken care of and arranged for a visit to Vindgar, and there are also well-founded reasons that show that in our view - we do not know what the criteria were - at least this provision has been fulfilled that justification is justified for historical reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that the arguments put forward by the government as a final result in the absence of support for the emergence of new municipalities have attracted arguments for hair. None of them can hold up because we have two words written in the law, "except for exceptions", and these exceptions are possible in all of these amendments. Why don't you tell people a single and basic argument. I know that's why the combined list is completely silent and that the LDS is also not willing to talk about it - the thing is money, the thing is money. It costs more congregations, we all know that. However, the difference is so small that it should not be the main argument against the formation of municipalities. I know you're a little concerned about how many mayors and so on would be from which party, so that's negligible, mostly money. However, I would just like to say something: if the government and these customers find money for such expensive projects as a government plane and others, it is totally unnecessary that we cannot find money for the creation of new municipalities to finance local self-government. That's the point and that's the point we should write - the money is gone, that's the only reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u45	We're at the first amendment. Please limit ourselves to the amendment; the debate on these matters was very extensive and in depth yesterday. Mr. Pukšič, I think, also had a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I repeat, Madam Secretary of State. In view of the findings and yesterday's general discussion of how the government has drawn up the proposal, it turns out that this is the first time in the history of local self-government that has been far from the worst prepared proposal. That is why, of course, I see no reason for the Secretary of State to boast of the number of employees in this area for local self-government, because someone will ask whether they have earned or not. Second. That's what I'd like to say. Look, Madam Secretary of State. You have said that your proposal is designed to provide such municipalities that will be able to implement and provide citizens with local self-government, so that such municipalities will be able to implement the legislation they need to implement. As in legal practice, which is often followed by cases of remote or nearby decisions, i.e. history, I would expect from you, of course, that you have already omitted this sentence to say, so many municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia from 1992 to today are unable to implement these and these legislations. However, if we find that out, of course the government should also propose a change in these areas of the municipalities and, of course, another organisational form. Look, you didn't do anything, you didn't propose anything like that, and today we don't know about any such case or at least the information coming from the government to the National Assembly. As you well know, there was no proposal to unite the congregations. On the contrary. We note that even extremely small municipalities have been extremely well-governed, implementing complete legislation. And of course it has changed significantly, from infrastructure to other facilities, from education to health care and so on, so much has happened here. Today, when we are talking only about whether we are going to call and people will decide there, it is simply too much debate and much too wide for my notions. We should, of course, go this way and give people what the process allows them to do. The priority area, I think, has to be declared and we don't really have any other options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask all debaters to take into account what the replica is and what the debate is. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to replicate to Mr Rupar when he said that it was only a problem to set up money. In a very small proportion, this claim is true. It's a question of how to split the money. Either he stays downtown or he goes to rural areas. It is. But follow what I wanted to point out. If people have decided to set up a congregation, and if they want to have authentic local self-government, I trust them. People, those who have decided, are reasonable people, are intelligent beings. Now we want to be something more. We take on something to decide for them. The authorities should have the people. And if that's how it's decided, then they have to be allowed. If certain criteria have been respected or have been met in previous established congregations, we must stick to them where this has happened. What about regions, if we talk about money, then there will be a question of money. At that time, it was a question of wastefulness.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u49	I beg you, let's stick to the rules of the game! We're talking about the amendment we have before us. We're not talking about anything else. Mrs. Bitenchev wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In fact, the Secretariat or on behalf of the Secretariat feel obliged to draw attention to some of the elements arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as the Secretariat has done in previous rounds of determining the network of local communities or municipalities. In opening, I would like to say that, if we are very precise, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia speaks among principles about the provision of local self-government in Slovenia and nothing more. I would therefore underline the conclusion made by the government that we cannot speak on the basis of the Constitution in force about the right to the congregation. As far as more precise regulation is concerned, it is clear from the chapter on local self - government that one of the basics is, one would say, the fundamental stones of the establishment of a congregation to determine the will of people in a particular area. But I would like to draw his attention to the National Assembly, which establishes the congregations by law, to the first paragraph of Article 140, which expressly states that the responsibility of the congregation lies with local matters which the municipality can handle on its own and which concern only the inhabitants of the municipality. It is assumed that the congregation can handle these matters on its own. It is said that an entity capable of regulating is being organised. In fact, the decision of the Constitutional Court to which you refer does not imply that the national assembly does not assess the criteria under Articles 13 and 13.a. They are judged as a whole, they can be judged relatively, but the National Assembly is responsible for establishing such congregations as will be able to carry out their constitutional function, that is to say, independently manage matters belonging to their work area. This responsibility, however, cannot in fact be waived by the State Assembly in the process of establishing municipalities, and I think that, in addition to the will of the people, the National Assembly is equally responsible for how much and what congregations exist in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u51	I would like to ask Mr Prašnikova to answer, in particular, questions relating to this amendment, only in relation to this amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u52	In fact, with the first sentence in my previous implementation, I replied that I would first like to say that we do not support the amendment and that we insist on the explanations or explanations that we have given to each individual proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you. I note that certain questions have been raised regarding the amendment to which we have not received answers. Of course, this is not necessary, but the answer was what it was. Mr Podobnik and Mr Bajuk, first of all Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u54	I recall last night when the National Assembly, by a majority, did not vote on the proposal for a decision proposed by the President of the National Assembly to re-decision on amendments on the working body, and a very respected fellow Member, very influential in this House, told me that it would be possible to get answers to all questions in the context of the plenary debate. I note and regret that - in fact, I do not blame you, Mrs Prašnikareva, because you have fallen into a situation that you are not in favour of, but you have not answered my question. Mrs Prašnikeva, I ask you kindly that you are also correct to the Member who asks. Look, my opinion was that there are arguments in the Government's explanation for the proposal that have no basis in law. Please don't insist on them. Tell me why you wrote down, and in what provision of the law, including the matters referred to by Mrs Bitenčev, why did you write down "day migration of the population beyond the limits of the present municipality of Bled"? What's the point here? There's a contradiction in itself. But that's not the key. Look, I want to tell you what I'm gonna do. In this case, I note that the proposal for the referendum area of Gore has the constitutional design of the municipality in Slovenia; I am fully responsible for this. This referendum area does not have 5,000 inhabitants. On the basis of the law and the decision of the Constitutional Court, I go to the next stage and determine what the conditions for setting up the congregation are. Once again, I can find that, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court and the law in force, I have reasons to seek a third argument, which are exceptions. The historical reason, however, is that some people are telling me that I will still vote in favour of this referendum area. If a government representative says, "I insist on my position," this is not a dialogue, I want you to convince me of what you are writing, and then I would not support this referendum area. However, with your onset, you have further strengthened me in the conviction that I will vote in favour of this referendum area. Your conclusions are an argument that the most likely constitutional court in a month will set up a national council to sign a referendum. That's what I'm warning you about. And, dear colleagues, I would ask you to understand that we have a duty under the current law to ask ourselves all these questions. I asked the question. I didn't get the answer. On the basis of this fact, I will also vote consciously in favour of the referendum area of Gore.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u55	Replica, Dr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, there were no answers. The question raised by Comrade Sušnik, who made it very clear that there are historical reasons under Article 13a that are foreseen as an exception and that allow one municipality to be created even if it does not have 5,000 inhabitants, you did not answer this broad argument. That's all you've told us is that you insist on your position. And that is now the position of the government. So you're anti-fragile, if I understand you correctly, I think I quite understand you that the government's position is against the fragmented municipalities. Well, it's one look that actually takes on a completely different concept of democracy. And I would also like to draw attention to this, Madam Representative from the Law Service has pointed us to some laws. Here I feel the right to warn all my colleagues that what is at stake today is also the provision of our Constitution, where it clearly and loudly states that the people are in power in Slovenia, whether directly or indirectly. That's finally what this is about. Whether it will be some arbitrary attitude of Slovenian bureaucracy, which estimates in all its bureaucracy that it does not like it, or whether we will adhere to the principles of the rule of law. That wasn't a warning. What's at stake is the right to decide for ourselves. And we believe. Finally, we trust her that this Slovenian country must be built on the basis of the above, on the basis of the will of people and in people. But not in the new bureaucracy, which is already being planned today, because we are reading this in the media and that all of this will be resolved through new landscapes and some experts will suddenly come and register this country. Thank you so much for such a country.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u57	Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Replica, I think you said.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u58	I expect Mr Janez Podobnik to apologize to Mrs Prašnikarov. For what he has allowed is an insult. And I ask you kindly, Mr. Parallel, to do this, because you are a polite gentleman and this is fair to do. Otherwise, I am not Mrs Prašnikova's lawyer, because she does not need it because she is able to defend herself well and to represent well the views of the government. However, it seems to me that he is merely arousing, Mr Podobnik, and only the desire to achieve a certain goal is not enough to do so. And just referring to the previous term is proof that it is wrong to follow your will, just a desire for something that is supposed to happen without meeting the criteria. You all know that in the previous term, both the congregation of Light and something else happened, just because it was done by force, because most wanted and refused to comply with the criteria and the law. And now to refer to this same argument, if we did it forcefully and bypassed the law so that we could break it indefinitely, for years and years - it's wrong. That's wrong. Under the general rules, if you made a mistake once or went against the law and did not get caught, it does not mean that you could break it the next time and that you were entitled to a violation because you were not caught for the first time. No, that's not right and it's not in accordance with the Constitution or any law. And in this case, we have to deal with this thing. To refer to something that was done past the law, because then some will was most of it, it is incorrect. And I kept my own marriage at the time, and now I will. And there is no need for us and all the other fifth Levites, how it is fair that it is fair, and that we are one more less fortunate people, for certain places to develop or not. No, it's not justified and it really isn't. For we are here to examine the conditions for creating the framework for the adoption of laws, acts and so on, which are imposed on Members and Members of the National Assembly within the framework of constitutional powers. And we do this consciously, and no cheerleading, no left or right games are necessary here. For my sake, let each one decide by his own conscience if he thinks he's right and that he doesn't trust the government, that he doesn't believe anything, that it's obvious that the secretary hasn't grown up and so on. It is the right of each individual, but in the end it is only a decision that each one makes. And let us decide, count the votes, and finally determine whether the professional service should check whether we need to talk to everyone or not. I think it's useful. However, at least I know all the elaborates who have come for all the congregations, and I also know of the same cases of writings that say, with severe eyewitnesses or threats, that we must establish a congregation, that the next day the letter comes from the same environment, as well as from the local assembly, where the opponents of this are - and this is not taken into account as if this is not applicable. Of course, I think it is right to go from case to case, and in the case of the municipality of Gore it was said, the elaborate is on the table, the government's explanation is what it is, I accept it, and I will vote as I choose. And this is not an example of an exception, if spoken of, certainly, to the borderline and I do not know which other criteria are prescribed there. And please, if we do not go into the width and the questions that are not the subject of this debate at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u59	I will not allow a replica to Mr Anderlich's debate because they do not comply with the amendment. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u60	Comrade Podobnik, I would like to point out only that the starting points of your debate show that you have decided to vote for each of the proposed municipalities to be established. And that right exists. But of course you will vote for each of the proposed congregations. Watch out. You have said that the Constitutional Court does not impose the conditions set out in Article 13 absolutely and that it is not possible to talk about any of these conditions being fully met today. And at the same time, you said that, as far as Article 13a is concerned, the number of inhabitants is not such an important criterion that Ghana would be possible with other exemption criteria, I would say, to apply. According to this logic, I must say that no one has made the necessary comparisons so far, so far, to say how the exemption criterion will apply. Gentlemen, as it is written in the law, they can be fully enforced in every congregation or in the fullness of none. And each one of you, or one of us, sees individuality. And I believe, at least that's how she told us that the government service was looking at the whole thing. All the proposals. I think that these facts must also be taken into account, because now with each individual, allow, you simply cannot. And two more things I'd like to say. I believe, and I know that in view of the requirements that have been made, and in view of the people who have organized themselves to have their congregation, it is certainly far more appropriate in their view today to say that this congregation can and will be assured and so forth. At the same time, I would like to point out that this is our obligation and our duty, while at the same time it is our duty and our duty to decide also on behalf of all others who have not made these proposals, because the decisions we make are made on behalf of all of us, on behalf of a few less than 2 million citizens and citizens of this Slovenia, because that is then the whole of local self-government that we will set up. In the end, I'd like to warn you again. Unreal claims are not based on the law that we have to establish referendum areas. Reverse. The law is designed to establish them when the legal conditions are met. If they're not met, we can't. That's just, I'd say a reverse interpretation of the same formula. Therefore, I would say that the creation of the referendum area means nothing. Let's let people decide, gentlemen, contrary to the law, except it's pleasing, it's nice. But it really isn't, and it would be right for all of us to at least tell each other that, no matter how each of us decides, because its decisions in the end are determined by some political definition and conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you. We are talking about the amendment of the Gorenje municipality and Mr Bernik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, we are now talking not only about one amendment, but actually about amendments. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u63	We are talking about this amendment and please, if you can limit yourself to this amendment in your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u64	I'll make two comments, if I may. One is that I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State on her work, but it has not been done as it should have been. For example, even in this amendment, the explanation is completely incomplete. And it seems strange to me that in all 50, including this amendment, they would decide that they are not appropriate. But if not, there could be a much better explanation. Secondly, I have a comment, if you will allow, on the implementation of the lady who runs the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. I have a question about who her client is. Who is her client, is this national assembly entirely or are they coalition parties, or is it government or who? We always get an explanation, "if I were to read the whole constitution, maybe even by article 3 it would have come together." It is totally unacceptable that it does not take all the arguments into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u65	So again. I have to find out that the discussers do not follow the rules of procedure. You expect me to run this session so we can stick to the rules of procedure. And now we just have to decide whether someone else would like to hold a meeting or stick to the rules of procedure. I'm sorry I'm so rude, I told you this because we just have a very clear agenda. Let us limit ourselves to this point, talk about the Gorjas, justify, oppose, and then go to the next point. Forgive me, but I am so direct right now and here I challenge your debates, but we are not actually going to come anywhere unless we argue our discussions on what is on the agenda. That's what the bookkeeper wants me to do, and you ask me to do it, and I have to do it. Of course, whoever has a desire to discuss the Gorjas will be given a word and others will not. Please, please, please, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In all of today's performances, I've been talking about Gorja, substantively.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u67	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u68	I note that the Secretary of State has not answered all the questions, and in this performance I will also explain the word which is a beautiful Slovenian comparison that "not a piece". That was no offense, and if you understood as an insult, I apologize to you from this place, Madam Secretary of State. In the fact that I did not get the answers to some of the questions that the Government has said, I simply concluded that you are not a part of this because you did not give an answer to this question. But I didn't use the word to be immature or anything. And like I said, you've somehow fallen into this situation and you're in an awkward situation. I don't eat Leviathan to anyone, and so on. I would like to point out explicitly that when I ask about arguments for or against the case of the Bled municipality, I do not refer to the argument that we should continue to break the law, as some of you have said. I'm not referring to that argument. I'm referring to a specific procedure. And as my colleague Potrč has previously found, we are here to decide whether there are all the grounds for marriage and the decision of the Constitutional Court, on which we decide whether or not - I am talking about this all the time. But, of course, I have to say it again. The Constitutional Decision states: "The National Assembly in the procedure for setting up municipalities and changing their territories shall not have the right to apply other criteria for granting exemptions under Article 13a as applied in 1998 or 1994, unless it decides to apply stricter criteria also for existing municipalities." They are benchmarks, and now I can only find out that the government would have the entire mandate here, but maybe we too can see that there are exceptions to the argument that we are voting for this referendum area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Potrata.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u70	I want to replicate my respectable colleague, Janez Sponik. I am pleased that on Mother's Day it shows so much concern and interferes with the treasure of beautiful Slovenian word relations. But the meaning of this word relationship is that "to be a piece" means to be able to do something or reverse, to be incapable of doing it. However, given what I had in my hands and the opportunity to read, I would feel that Mrs State Secretary, together with her co-workers, was able to do the work from those documents that had been given by the applicants for the establishment of new municipalities and also to follow the instructions and views of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u71	Look, here's the thing: we can open up a debate on how to call it right, for example, how to use a sentence correctly. Please note that on the agenda we have the amendment of the municipality of Gorje, this is a topic. Please, well, let's try to concentrate on this question. Please, who wants another word? Mr. Onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Well, I would like to give my opinion as a disagreement with the implementation of Mr Sponik on the question of the work of the Ministry of the Interior. My personal assessment is that Mrs Prašnikarova, as State Secretary, has done her job properly. It acted in accordance with the law on the procedure for the establishment of new municipalities. Given that this is an explicit political issue, and there will also be a political decision here today, and not just any professional decision whether there is too little explanation on the part of the Secretary of State. My personal political decision is to vote for the newly formed congregations. And all these arguments and muscle tightening for almost two days, because we have not invented any new warm water, in short, there has been a controversy and with this also because nobody wants to ask themselves, as I mentioned yesterday, why there has not been a change in the law itself, given that, as I mentioned, we have had a lot of changes in the laws due to the basic origins of the European Community, because I am sure that this law is not in line with the criteria of the European Community. And today it is only a political issue and also a political decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thus, we have now concluded with the replicas and the debate on this matter. No, we haven't. Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. President, you warned us to stick closely to the amendment. I'll hold him tight. I therefore deny the reply and the opinion of the Secretary of State. I will only touch strictly on the argument cited in the opinion. The primary health care of citizens is not provided in this area. This is the key reason that denies that the local community could not exercise the primary interests of the people in the area. Now let's just ask ourselves if that's true if this healthcare home is there or not, if that's why we're giving up. That's the only reason. That's what she put in there. For my understanding of these things, this is no reason to deny people their decision to have the congregation turned out to be in the past, nor is it the reason why they would vehemently and decisively influence one’s denial. For other reasons, the government obviously does not object. That means everyone else is fulfilled. It's just a question and nothing else. I think I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u75	Mr. Onion, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u76	Procedural question. Mr Vice-President, you have already mentioned twice that we are in the third reading of the proposals for the adoption of amendments. I ask publicly whether it is now a general debate or an amendment decision. Please proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the Adoption of the Amendments themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u77	Mr. Onion, I don't know. Looks like you've overheard all my calls to concentrate on the amendments, if possible. And I thank Mr Petty Officer for sticking to the rules of procedure. That's it. Is there still a wish for a word about the amendment? Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much. We respect the need to apply an exception within the meaning of Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government or not to enforce it. In doing so, I have asked one particular question whether it is sufficient to use a historical reason. Whether the 130-year-old or 103-year-old tradition of the successful municipality of Gore is sufficient reason to take account of the historical reason as one of the reasons for the exemption under Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. Unfortunately, I didn't get that answer, not in the first case, not in everyone else. It would be at least correct to state in the justification that there is no national, border, economic, geographical, historical reason, but in 50 cases none of these reasons have been given to facilitate the decision-making and application of Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government in terms of the continuation of the procedure and the decision-making of the relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, the government can answer or not. Of course, we can't force her. I ask the government, does it want to answer that question? [[He doesn't want to.]] So, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you. I don't know, I may have an impact on this change of opinion by government representatives. But you fixed the questions you asked earlier. One of these was whether the government had talked to the initiators about the establishment of this particular congregation, which is the subject of this amendment, is called the congregation of Gore. Once again, I repeat, if this may have been overheared by a government representative. Did the Ministry of the Interior, when preparing these materials for the government, talk to the initiators for the Goreje municipality or not? Have you talked to them or not? Were they among those half the instigators, as the minister said you were talking to, or did they not have this privilege?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you. Does the government want to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u82	Of course, I can answer this question, as the Minister said yesterday. We talked to all those who proposed in the event that there were, in particular, different facts in the laboratories, in proposals that did not comply with our data and where we needed further information and further clarifications.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u83	In the case of Gori, how was it?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u84	At this point, I have no information for each individual congregation that we have talked to and talked to.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you. Can we now conclude the debate on this amendment? [[Yes, you can.]] So I'm closing the debate on the amendment. This is point I.a, point 1. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote, please. Excuse me. Probably a voice explanation, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would like to say in explanation of vote that, in this vote, I cannot accept our thesis, which was a little earlier developed, that we had made a decision four years ago in contravention of the law. In no way did I, as a member of the then-recommendation, make a decision contrary to the law and also this decision, which will now be present [[I will, of course, support this amendment.]] There is no contrary to the legislation from which we come under this amendment. However, if the law may be one that we would like to understand differently, or to pursue the the thesis that the government has said, then it must be corrected in advance. I will decide on this amendment in accordance with existing legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you. Can we get to the vote now? Let's vote, please. Of the 68 present, 31 Members and Members voted against 35 Members. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We go to point I.a, point 2. There's been a mistake in the fabric because it says point 1, and please fix it. This is the amendment to I.a. point 2. I'm opening a debate on this amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on this amendment. Can we vote? Yes, you can. Let's vote, please. Of the 65 present, 27 Members and Members voted against 36 Members. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are at point I.a, point 3. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much. In this proposal and this amendment, I think it is very important that I point out the last sentence in the opinion of the Government, which states that, if the municipality of Podpeč-Preserje was established, the remaining part of the municipality of Brezovica would meet the law of certain conditions for the municipality, but the area of the municipality would no longer be territorially connected. This is a very important argument, including marriage, the law speaks of it. It is said that if the State Assembly voted on the referendum area and that the referendum was successful or anything else, and then the State Assembly would decide to set up a new congregation, it would undoubtedly have to do something in the case of the remaining congregation. Is my explanation correct, government representatives?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] He's a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u90	Here, in fact, we can only repeat our reasoning that it seems fundamental that the territory of the congregation in this case would no longer be territorially connected.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I conclude the debate, we move to a vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 69 present, 25 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Point I.a, point 4. Please, procedurally first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u92	Please indicate at each amendment which area this is, that there will be no misunderstandings, that you will not be misled, because these points may not be exactly the same to a certain extent. It's no problem to indicate which municipality the area is headed for. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u93	Okay. Each time, we will tell all those who may not have a good review of the situation again what this is about. So right now we're in, but I can say the shortest, Brezovice. Excuse me, Brezicah. This is point 4. Mr. Vizjak wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to this amendment and the Government's opinion, I would like to say the following. I cannot agree with the Government's opinion in this case, and I also assess that the government has not been sufficiently familiar with the circumstances and also with the initiative of both the local community of Bizeljsko and, of course, the proposed municipality of Brežica, which supports this designation or the establishment of the municipality of Bizeljsko. The Government's view does not take into account the fact that this is a cross-border area and thus, under Article 13a, also the possibility of derogating from the condition of 5,000 inhabitants. Finally, I am deeply disturbed by the conclusion that primary health care for the population is not provided in the area of the proposed municipality, which is not entirely true, since primary health care for the population is offered in this area, as it is also provided with an appropriate service. By assessing that this was a fairly fast and perhaps a little over-the-top treatment of this particular case. That is why I think it would be difficult for the Government to decide and take precedence in the sense that this municipality or this proposal does not meet the conditions. I think it should be borne in mind that this is a very rounded and sort of comprehensive area, which is finally also all-Slovenian known as the wine-growing area as well as the traditional wine-growing area. Finally, it is a border area, and it does not, after all, claim that there is no primary health care for the population. Thank you. That is why I believe that this is enough to allow other Members and Members to consider that this is the case in which the circumstances dictate the exception and application of Article 13a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u96	In the case of the municipality or the referendum area of the municipality of Bizellsko, I took note of the report of the working body on page 4, the last paragraph. This issue is a matter of exceptions as stipulated by the law. We have our next position. With regard to the limit criterion, which is a very important criterion in this case, but also in the following case, the Government's representative stressed that the government has dealt with it and found that Slovenia is a very restrictive country, since it has a 10-kilometre border band and in this case a third of the territory of Slovenia could be treated under this criterion as an exception. So, if I understand this position correctly, the government has decided that the legal criterion of limitation simply does not apply to it. It's against the law. Only a mandatory interpretation of the law or a change of law would give the government an argument for such a position. You know, I'm completely unburdened here, and in general, I can say that this is also in terms of the state and politics as an unwise position. Borders have different problems and the principle of good authorities is that border areas are particularly secure. The establishment of a congregation in this case may also be a positive element, developmental and different. The government is in its entirety - a few more cases where the referendum areas of the municipality are borderline - have simply eliminated these legal criteria. I express many surprises at such a position, which is contrary to the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Vizjak. That'll be a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u98	I'm sorry. It's really gonna be a replica. In fact, complementing and upgrading, especially since this point is also about the formation of the congregation of Dobova, not only the municipality of Bizeljsko, which is under this same point, but which is somehow even more exposed to this criterion of limitation. You must know that the proposal to establish the Dobova Congregation is an important border area. Finally, this will be the only border checkpoint between Croatia and Slovenia or the Schengen checkpoint on the railway. This is a very and above-average economic area, a developed area and a municipality. Therefore, I do not see, nor do I, the reasons why this proposal is somehow eliminated with one completely subjective view, if you do not meet the legal conditions and neither does the exception. Here I would also like to ask for a specific comment from the government in the field of Bizelj and Dobov.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u99	Anybody else want to discuss this? The government? Does he want to answer these questions? [[No, no, ……]] There's no response from the government. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. Can we get to the vote? Yes, you can. Let's vote, please. Of the 67 present, 35 votes against 32. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. There's no way we're clapping in the hall. The following is point I.a, point 5. This is called Amendment I.a, point 5, the new Rakek municipality. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u100	I have a purely procedural question. That is, look, we now have here the first block of amendments, with which we have now succeeded in voting the amendment for the first time, and I am interested in how we will deal in this case, purely procedurally, with the second block of amendments, whether it is still necessary to vote on this amendment at all. This is the case with the amendment to the motion for a decree, under Article 14. For we have now voted on the decision essentially what we wish to establish with the amendment in the decision. And that, I think, is an unnecessary re-election in the decision. And I am interested in the general answer in this and, of course, in other cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u101	So that's my explanation. We have two documents. One concerns the decision and the conditions and the other is the decision. We have to adopt a decree, call a referendum and so on. This is a real decision we have to make, so we have to vote on the decision. That's my explanation, now please, if you think it's wrong, you'll warn me. Well, we can move on. You know there's no discussion about the procedure, right? So, we said point 5, Cerknica-Rakek, how can I say, Rakek as a proposal for a new congregation, the shortest thing I would say is not to list everything. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much. As the proponent of the Rakek Congregation itself with the same justification for the assembly of citizens, I would like to point out some things. That the investor was a congregation was a general assembly because the local community’s world was abolished as a legal person. The local self-government is extremely affected by this. Second thing, I would like to say that I think the government's opinion on the justification that we don't have
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u103	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u104	primary health care provided, inadequate. We have a health home in Cerknica, 5 kilometers away, which we have been building together with self-contribution, and I do not think there should be any dispute as to where the natives will go and meet our health needs. We will still go to Cerknica health centre, that is perfectly clear, and I think there should be no problem here. Secondly, it would point out to the Government that the proposed area does not meet the conditions that ensure the fulfilment of the basic living needs of the inhabitants of the implementation by law of certain tasks of the municipality. I want to say that our Rakek municipality was established in 1890 and that until the end of the 1950s it was extremely successful, economic, transport, social, sports and that we had all the attributes that the municipality required. After the congregation was abolished, in fact, all the institutions moved out of the city, so we actually lost the court last year. We believe that the historical reason for the congregation’s success until the 1950 ’ s is worthy of consideration. There is also a traffic reason, since the local community of Rakek lies on important roads, so it has a railway station along the Ljubljana - Trst railway line. Then the section has the Unec highway and means an important door for Notranjska. This door is true, I could say broken, but I think with the new congregation it could become a flowering door forward for Notranjska and further to Dolenjska.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u105	I'm sorry, but I really need to warn our colleagues a little bit. We have so few colleagues in the hall, and you don't give them the attention you need. Well, to be fair, that's unnecessary. Here you go, Mrs. Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Next, I would like to say that the Government's claim that as a new municipality would not be able to meet the needs of its population permanently, I do not think it is appropriate, since according to the structure of the country's employees we find that the amount of income actually achieved is above the average in the municipality of Cerknica. We need to know that people are more educated because they also had greater opportunities and access to education, at least through railways and via highway connections, that they are employed in most cases in Ljubljana and Postojna, where wages are relatively higher and we also find that the income actually reached is also higher than the average in the municipality. The simulation of the budget for the new municipality also shows that in due course we could ensure adequate consumption even without state compensation, at least on the basis of today's foundations. However, economic, social, sporting and social development and prosperity before the municipality was abolished show that in the area of the local community Rakek, which is surrounded by five settlements, this is Rakek, Unec, Ivanje village, Slivice and Škocjan, well managed and that the very abolition of the congregation brought us a great decline. I would like to point out that in the past the government and the legislator have already deviated from the requirement of 5,000 inhabitants. Particularly in our municipality, I said yesterday that the municipality of Loška dolina has 3,600 inhabitants and four years ago the municipality of Bloke Nova Vas, which has 1,600 inhabitants. Our local community, however, has just over 2,800 inhabitants, and we are confident that the new congregation could revive the development that has been interrupted in these 45 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I am certainly spying on the purpose or will of leading the candidates for the establishment of the new Rakek Congregation. I'm not going to go into what's causing these people to want to rule their own territory or their own environment. There are some legitimate reasons. There are some elements that speak in behalf of this congregation. However, there are a number of arguments that are contrary. But there's something I'd like to point out. This is a typical example of setting up a congregation that can trigger a process that I do not approve of. It's a municipality and it has to be a spectrum. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u109	Excuse me, Mr. Brenčič. I don't know if it's even possible to continue in this atmosphere when no one's listening. I'm asking for peace on the balcony, at the gallery. That's not how it's gonna go. Excuse me, Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u110	It is a community and must be a spectrum of diversity, diversity, diversity in good and bad. There is no way that we can and cannot make the trend that certain municipalities are excluded from environments that have only a spectrum of good, positive things. In this case, this is an environment with a very small area, with a high population concentration and I believe that they will not need compensation for practically more or less large state infrastructures, little local infrastructure. The municipality of Cerknica in this respect remains what we often say is abandoned or impoverished or underdeveloped area of these hill villages. Therefore, I am sure that the people I know well in this environment and are thinking about it will decide at this research referendum what follows them in good and bad. I do not support the establishment of this congregation, and I probably will not support it in the next phase. But today, of course, I will vote in favour of this and let people decide on this exploratory referendum. But all I know is that this case is not, either from the outside or from the contents, comparable to the case where the first congregation of the Loško Valley was established in this Notranj region, which was later divided. [[First she had conditions, then she shared.]] in relation to this definition of this environment with practically three larger villages. Surely people will act very wisely. Also from this title there was no agreement of the municipal council of the present comprehensive municipality of Cerknica in this respect, because it is aware of what remains of this former municipality in the concentration of a narrow area in the capitalist design of income, since there is no other economic income. It's mostly income, it's a more sleepy village. And what remains the remainder of this congregation with all the eights emptied? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Madam Members and Members, I do not think that what we are doing today is really a wise work. Look, we have now voted one of the congregations, not the congregation, but the possibility of calling a referendum for this area. Yes, how will any institution in this country explain to all others that we will reject today that they do not have these constitutional options? What will the Constitutional Court say? I think we've put the matter in the perfect spot now. We voted one, now we won't vote two again, but one again, and so on. This is my work, and nothing else in the Constitutional Court will have a great task here to repair the pointless work of this House and it will say, yes, after all, what you are going to do, because in this country, before the law, everyone is the same. Doesn't that make sense to you? But I'm living in a big mess. We have voted one congregation, and now we are making sure of what we are and which we will no longer be. I think the thing went south into the francs. I'm sorry, but I'm warning you. I don't know how we could now reject Rakek if we had already given the possibility that an area with 1,874 inhabitants would have a referendum, and the government has written in its opinion that no one meets the conditions because they do not have enough population and Rakek has more than 1,000 inhabitants. I think the matter has really become unconstant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u113	The theme is the new congregation of Rakek and nothing else. Please save the debate on what the Constitutional Court will say, because this is none of our business. It's none of our business, sorry. It is our business to decide on the amendment that has been tabled, and we stick to it. Mrs. Zupanova has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate my colleague Brenčič. I thank you for its implementation, but I think that everything must be said in this regard. As I have already said, we no longer have the local community's worlds because it has been abolished, and we have only a council of citizens qualified to submit a proposal for a new congregation. The congregation decided unanimously to serve as a new congregation. At the second assembly convened by the mayor of December of the month, I must say that this assembly was convened at Unca. Unec has 600 people, Rakek has almost 2,000 people. In 50 years, it has not happened that the council of citizens would not be at Rakek. Thus, the Rakovcans felt that the assembly of citizens was convened in a locally inappropriate manner and that it was not concluded and that many people were not missing. But this is a matter worth considering. On the local council itself, the saints did not give the real reason for their opposition. Their performances, however, showed that they were opposed to the richer, westerner part of the congregation in the home congregation. However, all the evidence and reasons given show that the congregation of Cerknica, with the remainder, can function perfectly normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you. There's also a debate, Mr. Tuckyat.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. With regard to Rakek, as an example of a very inappropriate justification. In fact, the government here substantiates its negative position with the following: "The proposed area does not meet the conditions that ensure the fulfilment of the basic needs of the population, as primary health care is not provided in the area." Dear government representatives, primary health care is provided in this area as much as in Slovenia. Even if Rakek chooses to be a single municipality, primary health care will still be provided. I think we have talked enough about these things, and perhaps the following should also be added. The Law on Local Self-Government, however, lays down one non-life condition that has long been outgrown by the development of health care. It states that primary health care must be provided to citizens, a healthcare home or a health station. The concept of a health station under the Health Act 1992 includes emergency medical care. However, emergency medical care is on Fridays and holidays, day and night, during vacations, and is always present. Such a health station has no former municipality that seceded in 1994 from the municipality of Ljubljana. Let me list here our neighbouring Ig, Brezovica, Dobrova, as well as others could count, Škofljica and similar, none of them has such emergency medical care, because all of these residents, regarding the provision of emergency medical care, are gravity in Ljubljana at NNMP, if you know this. I believe that such a selectively negative approach to an element and to build a negative position on it is incorrect, with respect to the people of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you. A debate, Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Again, the criteria for health care are emerging, and the Government's argument here is even more May. But it is totally inappropriate to look at how health care is organised, health care, primary care, secondary care. This is the task of the State to provide citizens with adequate health care, regardless of the municipal boundaries. I'm sorry. The argument of refusing to set up a congregation in this way is unserious. That's not appropriate. That is why I will vote in favour of establishing a congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? A representative of the government, perhaps?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u120	As regards healthcare, as there are many questions in this regard, I would reiterate that the government has, in Article 13, which states that "it is considered that the municipality is capable in its area of meeting the needs and fulfilling the tasks referred to in the preceding paragraph, if the following conditions are provided", and in the indent, "primary health care of citizens, health care or health care station", it has taken into account, reviewed and prepared its opinion on the basis of this dictatorship or this indent of the law, as Mrs Bitenčeva has already mentioned that we have examined whether it can provide it on its own. Likewise, in a specific case where we have found, on the basis of data from the Ministry of Health, that primary health care is not provided in the area, that is, taking into account the condition that the municipality can provide it on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič and Mrs. Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Of course, I understand, Madam Secretary of State, but I know this environment. Even after the health communities were organised, the whole of Notranjska set up a new health care home, an internal health care home, where primary health care is provided to the population in a wide environment. And the people of Rakek have an inappropriately better chance than the municipalities to come, because they are a few kilometers away from this health center, to primary care than those in the church municipality who will still remain in the municipality of Cerknica, and are far more distant and more difficult to access. I would like to point out this illogical term or, as I say, the definition in the case of offering or allowing the primary health network. It's completely illogical. It is therefore a shame to base ourselves on something that is fictitiously unacceptable. In this case, there is a living contrast between Rakek’s health care options or the possibility of the remaining work in Cerknica municipality in the same health care home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u124	Complementary, if you please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u125	I'm just allowing the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u126	We had a health care station until the establishment of a health care home in Cerknica and there is really no fear that primary health care activity would not be provided. I also think that it is completely puzzled with logic that we should really have something else of our own here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u127	Replica, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u128	I don't think it is necessary that Mr Brenčič himself has very well justified this replica of the implementation of the Secretary of State and it is pointless to go into these dilemmas because they are totally unrelated, and what you are arguing by the State is indeed under any professional criticism.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you. Can we close the debate on this amendment? [[Yeah.]] I conclude the debate, we move to a vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 69 present, 28 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next item is point I.a, point 6, is the new municipality of Vinica. Thus, we are in the referendum area of the part of the municipality of Črnomelj. So the new Vincenzo Congregation. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Please, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u130	I now rightly wonder, given that it seems to me that it was previously established, in the case of Bisellian and Dobova, the criteria of limitability. I now wonder whether it is to be counted that the area of the local community of Vinica, on the fact that it has a positive decision by the municipal council, is to be given the same criterion or ask the government why the opinion, consideration or non-compliance of Article 13a has been rejected in order to continue the procedure from a border point of view. Is this area borderline or is it not borderline? Is this an area of strategic or national importance for the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The government's response? [[He doesn't want to.]] The government, does it? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 71 present, 26 members and Members voted against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are at point I.a., point 7, Dobrova-Polkhov town. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u132	In the case of Dobrove-Polhove Gradc, this is a large-scale municipality created in 1994 by the expulsion from the former municipality of Vič-Rudnik, the municipality of Horjul-Dobrova-Polhov Gradec and Šentjošt. After four years Horjul was eliminated, a municipality with two settlements, Dobrova and Polhov Gradec appeared. Never in history, and Polhov Gradec is 500 years old, nor was Polhov Gradec the pendant of another municipality. It has always been historically conditioned autonomy, which is reflected even now. I believe that since World War II, Polhov Gradec has experienced violence, like many other places that were violently connected to a larger urban centre. About four years ago, when Horulo’s secession was carried out, the phenomenon showed itself even more. I think it's time for Polhove's Grad to give Polhod a chance to hold a referendum. The first referendum was held in 1994 and was already clearly demonstrated the will of the inhabitants. I think we should give it again now too, which is to correct the error that was made at the time, that the outcome of the referendum has not been taken into account and given them this opportunity again. I am in favour of this from the following arguments. The municipality of Polhov Gradec meets all the conditions set by the Ministry, it is said, has all the crosses in the table, but it does not meet or meet the number of 5,000 inhabitants, but I advocate that it fulfils the historical elements and also geographical elements, because it is somehow in the heart of the Polish Dolomites and surrounds this area as a autonomous municipality. At the same point, there is also the question of Schengen. Šentjošt is a small municipality - this was mentioned yesterday - in the hilly part behind Horjul. The secession of Horjul also separates the congregation of Horjul or the local community of Šentjošt from its native Dobrova, Šentjošt is completely separated, between them is 20 kilometers away, of course there is a geographical connection, if you want, through those hills, along the Augustes and the trails, also along the same congregation, and some Macedonians, comes after the same congregation to Šentjošte from Dobrova. But this is not the link that the Ministry referred to when it rejected the positive opinion of the Preser and said that if the Preserje independent municipality of Preserje - Podpeč, then the Rakitna will not be connected to Brezovica life or space. The Schengen is not spatially linked to Dobrova and it is clear that even in the case of Šentojest it would be necessary to take into account this wish, which has been expressed by the locals since 1994 with such a high positive outcome of the referendum. I mean, honourable Members, but something in this country must weigh down the will of the people of the country. That's all I'm saying. But something harder should have the outcome of the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The amendment further reaffirms the need to amend system legislation in this area through some thorough approach. I am convinced that when the government was preparing this proposal, it is also likely that it has been substantively deepened in this situation in these Polish dolomites. As it is now exposed and as it will be established, it is virtually very difficult to administratively satisfy life in this environment. It is true that the local community of Shentjosht is completely cut off from the home congregation. It is true that the intervention of the present congregation is unreasonable for me to say that the name of the present congregation is something that has been marked by this environment for centuries. The name of this environment, the Polhogrian Dolomite, has been summed up in Polhove’s Castle. I don't know why you would take that name off this congregation right now. This attitude of the present - day congregation, the current mayor, toward this environment, is one of those levers that forces these people to make a congregation because of their attitude toward their hearths. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. But I do know that in this case, the government should take a closer look at how, if anything else, administratively, meaningfully, according to nature's configuration, etc., to share this environment. I will support the amendment, but I know that in due course it will have to come on the basis of a different legal approach in this environment to the reverse situation as it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Zampernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There's not much to add to what the provosts have said. However, since there have been quite a few indications at the expense of the government, and perhaps also us Members, that the matter has been regulated from cabinets, on paper, on the basis of statistics, it would nevertheless show what Mr Brenčič said to take into account the greater consideration of people's will. I had the honor and opportunity to participate in the local assembly in Polhove Castle. The reception hall, I think more than 200 people, was full. In a congregation like ours, we do not bring as many people together for joy. And that was where that great desire really appeared, giving them the opportunity to make a free choice. I think that these rights to Polhove Castle, if we've given them before, I don't know which congregation, with the help of some colleagues in the position to give this opportunity to Polhove Grad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In this case, I would like to ask the question again, and I would like an answer to it by the secretariat if it is possible. The government says: "In the event of the establishment of the municipality of Polhov Gradec, the remaining part of the municipality of Dobrova-Polhov Gradec would be divided into two uncultivated works." Can we get Members and Members to answer my already asked question: will the referendum succeed if we call it, will we set up a congregation - are we done with this, or are we still tasked with the rest of the congregation? I think this is an important question. Then there's another thing. Anyone who is silent agrees, they say. In my pile of paper, I also received a letter, an opinion from the LDS Congregation Committee on the subject. This does not touch fellow Members of Parliament in any way, but there are so many sectarian statements in this record that I do not hope to read them. This is the documentation we have received in the National Assembly and is in my folder under this item, under this amendment. I think you've all received this - no, all the leaders of the parliamentary groups - "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, received 18.2.2002." Look, I think now is also an opportunity in such a case to quote something else that the Constitutional Court has written down - what the congregation is: "The municipality coincides with the locality of the inhabitants of a particular area. It is marked by the spatial and social proximity of citizens and represents a network of social relations that are conditioned by the residence in a locally demarcated area. Together life takes place through a wide range of economic, social and cultural ties, which enable an important part of the needs and interests of local communities to be met. When a person," and I am very pleased that the Constitutional Court has used this excellent personalistic term "person", "when a person looks up and grows up, he develops in the local community or in the congregation more and more social interactions. The municipality is also a room for social activities that go beyond the narrowest circle of the family. Therefore, in modern society, the congregation also represents the most important social link between a person and his family on the one hand and the wider communities in the country on the other." That's what I wanted to put out here on this occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you. Mrs. Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I think it is right to mention that in no way can I agree with the government's view that the reduced human and economic capacity would have a negative impact on the development capacity of the congregation. In Polhove Gradec, they have the appropriate professional staff, who are willing to contribute a significant share on a voluntary basis to their place, and this is a significant difference compared to the larger municipalities. On this basis, small amounts of money are also made and done much more than in larger municipalities. I think this suggests that it is worth supporting citizens' efforts. If I take the time at the same time, I would also like to explain further to the congregation of Šentjošt that the geographical, historical and economic reasons are also such as to be taken into account, since it means that the future congregation has completed the mountain area with specific needs. Historically, the congregation was abolished immediately after the war and had a long tradition and a desire that with the new congregation there could be faster general development as well as development in the field of crafts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank all Members and Members who have already supported this amendment. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, on the basis of Article 13a in that section, which speaks of demographic, historical and geographical reasons, these exist, that it has obviously not taken them into account in the explanation of the Government's position, because it neither mentions nor rejects them at all, and that it is necessary to create the possibility that people in this area will decide their own congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you. Madam Secretary of State, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u144	In the case of the proposal to establish the municipality of Polhov Gradec, I would like to stress in particular that we have also stated in our opinion that the remaining part of the municipality of Dobrova - Polhov Gradec would be divided into two uncultivated works and also what is stated in the Law on Procedures for the Establishment of Municipalities, that the proposal should also include the particulars from which it appears, or the rest of the municipality from which the part is excluded, meeting the statutory conditions for the municipality. We also stated in our opinion that the remainder would no longer be met by the law of certain conditions for the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u146	This is indeed written that if Polhov Gradec becomes independent, the area will no longer be closed, which means, in concrete terms, that Šentjošt will no longer be associated with Dobrovo. I'm sure you don't. By the way, it won't be connected after those trails and Augusts. There is no other connection, distinguished representatives of the government. The connection, the road from Šentoště goes through the congregation Horjul to its home congregation Dobrovo. This link, which you are referring to and to which you refer, cannot be a reason. This would be understood if the representatives of these congregations were to be admitted to the Ministry and discussed in more detail with them. But now I'm talking about Polho's Castle. You have not provided any argument for your refusal, except that the government considers that this would have a negative impact on the development capacity of the congregation and that the ability of the congregation, taking into account the reciprocity of the conditions that determine the capacity of the congregation to meet the needs and interests of its inhabitants, the government considers that the congregation could not provide them permanently. I'm sorry, that's not an argument, that's advice to some teenager, some kid. However, I think that the proponents are mature, smart people, that they do know what they are getting into and that such a definition is, I'm sorry, in a way for the Polish citizens to be insulted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much. When I said a little earlier that I had expected and expected the government to deepen deeply in this case, I also mentioned an administrative moment in this environment. If the municipality of Polhov Gradec is established, the administrative capacity of Šentojest is not changed in any way. If there are no more separations in nature between them in the forest or in the valley or in the ditch, it means nothing. The local community of Shentjosht is also now walking through Horjul, its neighboring congregation, or congregation, to Dobrovo, on all administrative and other matters. If the congregation of Polhov Gradec is an independent congregation, nothing changes it. Nothing. Because now he does not walk across that forest in Polhov Gradec, but he goes to the home congregation on Dobrovo on the state road. Nothing. Only the physical forest will remain in nature, once a congregation, and from this meter forward other congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Zamernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u150	Law is sometimes based on existing practice. It may be easier for the government to decide if I remember that four years ago, in the proposal for a decision of the village of Prichova of the congregation of Mozire and the accession of the same settlement to the congregation of Nazarje, what you now claim is impossible to do has already happened. By separating the settlement of Prichova and joining the municipality of Nazarje, the municipality of Mozirje was divided into two parts and the connection between Rijeka and Mozir was then no more. If you look at this practice, it will be easier for you to decide to look also here, in which case you can look through your fingers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u153	Is this a debate or is it a replica? I don't know, I didn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u154	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u155	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u156	It's about interpreting existing practice. It is true that what Mr. Ambassador said has happened. The appeal has been eliminated, but it must be pointed out here that even then the government has opposed, with the same or the same arguments as now. And it was the decision of the National Assembly and the national assembly that took the decision, of course, on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court, later. The National Assembly also decided as proposed by the Government. But the government in that particular case had the same position as it did today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you. Does the government have anything else to say? [[No, no, ……]] Can we close this debate on this amendment? [[Yeah.]] I am closing the debate on the amendment and moving on to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 70 present, 32 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment is point I.a, point 8. Dravograd, new municipality of Šentjanz. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on this amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 70 present, 28 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Point 9. Here's where I get off on the initiative. Withdrawal of the initiative to establish a new municipality of Poljana. The procedure is hereby terminated and this fact will be introduced in Chapter 7 of this Decision. Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u158	Since we have this material on the table today, I would like to ask the government to provide us with the documentation to which they refer, that the Ministry and this service, Mr Mayor of Poland, advised us as it does there, and I think that this must also be in the procedure. Please, if this documentation is delivered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u159	I don't know if we have the same documents in front of us, but here I have the material of the local Polish community, the world of the local community. This material has a date of 19.2.2002. The issue is: Withdrawal of the initiative to establish a new municipality of Poljana. The President of the Council of the Polish Local Community, Mr Dark Izidor, has been signed, which shows that the withdrawal is here - it is a fact and cannot go past it, and that is why this is not the issue that we are now discussing. We're moving to Sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u160	Excuse me, Mr. President. I didn't want to open the debate, I just asked for this document that we got today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u161	On the table?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u162	at a table where we are told that the local community has made a different decision, based on the government's position [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u163	Opinions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u164	the opinion that this position is also being forwarded to the National Assembly, that we will be informed of the reasons why the government has advised the Mayor and the local community. [[...]] That's all. I don't want a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u165	The government has taken note of this and will respond according to your proposal. We are at point 1.a, point 10. This is about Gorišnica - this is a proposal for a new congregation. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Zupanova, procedurally? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u166	Can I check it out? Under number seven, we decided on the municipality of Polhov Gradec. What about the congregation of Shentjosht?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u167	So do I.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u168	At the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u170	Then why at the same time if [[...]] [[It's not understandable, talking to each other.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u171	You know, I'm going after the amendments to the joint. You need to look at the material, the conclusion, not the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u172	The decision alone states: "Under seven, Dobrova-Polhov Gradec municipality, a proposal for the establishment of the Polhov Gradec municipality and a proposal for the establishment of the Šentjošt municipality."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u173	Here I have on page three, item seven is Dobrova-Polhov Gradec, point eight, Dravograd, the new municipality of Šentjanz. In point seven, read: "In the proposal the seventh point is deleted in point I. under 'a'." Look at the seventh point, and you'll see that that's it. We are at point 10 - Gorišnica. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Puksich, then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The government’s explanation reads: The entire material, including the municipal council, gave a positive opinion on the proposal. In her opinion, however, the government would have only 3,899 inhabitants in the remaining part of the municipality if the proposed municipality was established, and could not ensure that the needs and interests of its inhabitants are permanently realized. I fully agree with the government's view, given that this was written somewhere behind some doors where they did not have a map, they do not know where the congregation is. But, of course, that's what all the opinions are. If we knew for a minute where and which congregation there was, we wouldn't write such "tumariums" for the first time. Second, it should be written for those congregations that have been operating with 500 or 1,500 people for four or eight years and are completely elsewhere. But, of course, it doesn't matter. My colleagues and colleagues, I will also support this amendment, as I have in principle supported all the proposals so far. I am convinced that Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia are obliged to adopt legislation in accordance with the Constitution. At least it's our political duty to manipulate, at least it's our political duty to decide "for our yes, for your no", if it's true, then yes, but if it's not true, then it's not. Or if I translate this into my own language, if the Members of Liberal Democracy are from an area where municipalities are established, then they get votes if they don't. At the beginning of this decision, honourable fellow Member Anderlič spoke about the principles and I do not know what else he was talking about and what the work of members of the National Assembly was. It will be difficult to explain those who vote in favour of certain municipalities against them. But the only logic is that we vote in accordance with the law and according to the practice that it is, also according to the practice of the Constitutional Court decision. Whatever we vote against the will of the people - and it is the will of the people to call a referendum, what will be the decision, none of us know, but it will only turn out then - whatever we do differently, that we will not give them the opportunity to call for a referendum, I will tell everyone here that they will have this option because the Constitutional Court will simply annul such a decision. I myself will support this proposal, as I have supported everything in principle so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I also wonder what they think are present on this balcony when we are actually playing some kind of Russian roulette here, one yes, one no, one yes, the other no, depending on which political option belongs to the one who advocates it. See, as far as the proposal for the Circulana municipality is concerned, if, of course, the government has seen this area, I don't know, maybe now they will have replied to me that they have consulted with these people in the Circulan area, because, as the Minister has said, with one half of the proposals for municipalities have been made, and it is imperative that we consult with those in the Circulan area. See, the Circulans are now part of the municipality of Gorišnica, and they were two local communities. Thus, the local community of Gorišnica and the local communities of Circulana were somehow united against the will of the people in 1994. The local community of Cirkulana was associated with the municipality of Gorišnica despite the fact that they were stolen from the referendum against it. The areas are distinctly different. One part is flat and the other part is hilly, halos. These two areas are separated by the Drava River and are only connected to one bridge and one road. The area of Circulan is an extremely border area. And if the criteria of the border area were already in force in a municipality in Bizellsko, I hope that the criteria of the border area could also apply. The area is significantly affected in demographic terms. If something does not happen soon in this area and the country will help more intensively - people, the locals of this part of Slovenia see that this help can be achieved through the establishment of their own community - then in any case this area will go further back and in the next ten to twenty years, we may find that this area will become empty. I'd like to remind you of the coffins of refugees crossing these areas. Who should protect the state border if not the inhabitants who are inhabited in this area and who have also been able to help prevent these matters most intensively? In this explanation for the independent congregation of Cirkulane, I must point out that he also gave positive consent to the municipal council of the present congregation. So they received a positive agreement and decided to have a congregation of citizens in the majority, more than 70 percent. So they take this fact and this risk of responsibility for their congregation. They already have a full primary school in the Circulations, they have health care, they have mail, they have stores, they have a bank, they have a church, they say, all the conditions are for the establishment of a municipality, but of course they do not meet the condition of 5,000 inhabitants and they will never meet it. Never. If they have today, I do not know 2,200 or 2,300 inhabitants, then I hope to say that in ten years there will be less than 2,000 inhabitants in this area, because the area is empty. If we want to stop this trend of celebration, then these people need to be helped. However, we can help them by taking up their own development as a municipality to obtain different infrastructure resources, different means of investing in tourism, in short, in the development of wine-growing, following calls from different ministries. If this country and this government do not see this problem in this way, this area is doomed to stagnation, to decline. He's here today. I suggest that this criterion of limitation under Article 13a in this case be taken into account, as we have already taken into account in one of the cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Trofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. A lot of things were said, but not fundamentally. It is true that the present municipality of Gorišnica consists of two local communities, Circulana and Gorišnica, and that it is one of the rare Slovenian municipalities, which is financed by itself, although it has in its composition the so-called poor Halo part. This is due to the fact that the own revenue generated by the compensation for the use of the building land from the water supply channel of Furmin is so high that it allowed in the existing municipality of Gorišnica to build a new school, a water network and a variety of things in the area of the local community of Cirkulane in recent years. This is a school case where the critical mass is also in the less developed self-financed area and the decision or secession of this congregation, not only does the remnant no longer meet the criteria for their own congregation, means that the remainder becomes even richer and the poor leave them behind, or are tied down, in an ugly manner, on a state nursery. This is the essence of the problem and the promotion of Slovenian egoism, which is emerging. Let's get rid of the poor and leave them somewhere, and we ourselves live in the best possible conditions, in some specific conditions that result from the long-term situation. The electrical facility is where it is. That's the other side of the medal and the truth. Thank you. I will therefore object, of course, because this is one of the rare rural communities that meets all the conditions for their existence: self-financing, critical mass of size. Someone can't claim that some area has been abandoned. Reverse. In the last eight years, this has enabled the initiative of the existing congregation to develop this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u180	What's strange about all this is what Mr. Trophynik said is that these poor people want to go their own way. To stand up for it. That we do not force them to go to their congregation, but they themselves want to get their own congregation, and through this they see much more prospects for their own development. So this argument that someone is forcing them to go - it's not true. We are here today to discuss, Mr Trofenik, the referendums, the decision they will make. No one's forcing them, they'll judge themselves. You're saying that, I don't know, some of God's will has saved them from having this hydro power station on Drava, which I don't know how much they pay the municipality of Gorišnica annually under the change of destination. But the former bird congregation, which has split up several times and is currently, I don't know, 17 or 18 congregations, had this channel just as the congregations do today, but we still got, say, to develop the center and the other Haloses, which are still in the mud today. And that is what these citizens are trying to do, and also then the neighboring congregation, which has equal conditions, is Leskovec, in the present - day Vidma, also strive to get out of this mud, the halo, in some way. So don't argue that someone is forcing someone to go somewhere. They'll decide for themselves. If you don't understand that, then unfortunately you don't understand the principle of local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you. Can we discuss this amendment? [[Yeah.]] There is no more debate, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 66 present, 25 Members and Members voted against 40. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the session in the morning. In the afternoon work, which we start at 2.30 p.m., we continue with this agenda item, item 11, Novi Choče.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u182	Respectable and respected, dear guests! We will proceed with the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 13th session of 21.2.2002: Ivan Bozič for the afternoon part of the session and Dr Michael Brejc for the afternoon part of the session. Since we will be able to determine the presence in the hall, I ask you kindly for the necessary attention. We're picking up a presence at the hall. The presence I can read is 44. I mean, and I am sure that there are many more of us in the hall, so once again I ask for your attention, because we find presence in the hall. We're picking up the presence, another time. There are 50 Members and Members present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. In the morning work we finished working on page 4 of the amendment review. In this way, I propose an amendment to point I to point 11, which is the proposal to establish the municipality of Hoče as part of the municipality of Hoče-Slivnica. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to point I, point 11, for the new municipality of Wille. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. There were 22 votes against 35. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 12, of the proposal to establish a new municipality of Lower Idrija. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I'm just concluding. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 26 votes against 34. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 13, of the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Višnja Gora. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u183	The proposal for the new municipality of Višnja Gora is certainly one of those who have virtually all the arguments for setting up. Visnja Gora was a congregation, or not just a congregation, but a city at a time when most of these places, which are now congregations, were not at all. And if there are historical reasons, then there is in this case. There are also other criteria prescribed by law. Thus, in this case, the Government's rejection is completely incomprehensible and I appeal for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to a decision on the amendment to point I, point 13. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 34. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I propose an amendment to point I, point 14, to set up a new municipality, Kamniška Bistrica. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. There were 21 votes against 35. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I am making an amendment to point I, point 15, the proposal to establish the municipality of Videm Krško and the proposal to establish the municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 23 votes against 38. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 16, to the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Rome Toplice. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I'm just concluding. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 25 votes against 36. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 17, to the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Sveti Jurij in Slovenski Gorica, the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Council of Trojica in Slovenski Gorica and the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Volitina in Slovenski Gorica. I'm opening a debate. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. This 17th point refers to the Lenart Congregation, which would be divided into four congregations if the present congregation of Lenart remained a separate congregation and three new congregations. When I look at the government's report here, it's in all the explanations, of course, the opinion does not support, the government does not support these proposals, and it only says in all three that the government believes that the proposed congregation - it is said that these proposed congregations could not guarantee the interests of their inhabitants permanently. Of course I don't agree with that. There is no other reason, the only reason is that the population is not enough. These three newly formed municipalities, if we look at them, would be 2152 people in the municipality of Sveti Jurij in Slovenski Gorica; then the municipality of Sveti Trojica would have 2279 inhabitants and Volina 2443 inhabitants. You will probably remember, colleague and colleague, those who were in the previous mandate, how we are in this area from the former municipality of Lenart, which had 17,000 inhabitants, that we have established three new municipalities, which also have two thousand and a few inhabitants, namely the municipalities of Council Ana, Cerkvenjak and Benedict. In these newly formed municipalities, citizens now find that they have made the right decision after three years and I see no reason why they should not support this proposal so that citizens and citizens at the referendum can re-elect their municipalities. These explanations given by the Government are not substantive. This is the only reason that these newly formed congregations cannot sustain the needs and interests of their citizens. Now it will be difficult to convince those congregations that I mentioned earlier, which we set up three years ago, and that is where the matter is going very well. It can, at least in these three years, if this is permanent, I don't know, it's probably not permanent for three years, now who is such a visionary in the government that it can tell that it will, I don't know, how many years from now this will collapse so that it won't be possible to guarantee it. So, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you if you can make this proposal, only if you can allow these people to decide at the referendum "for" - to decide for themselves whether they want to have their own congregation or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In this case, as with the 16th case, I will follow the will of the people to proceed. Their will is expressed to sign the referendum area and with all the arguments that Mr Kramberger has already spoken about before me, which of course they hold. It is up to us once again whether our decision will be in accordance with the law and whether we will rule again against the Constitutional Court's decision and whether, of course, we will have to reconsider this matter. However, the opinions, which were written in these three cases for the establishment of these three congregations, could be written in the first place, in the first place, as was written in this case, and would save at least a few leaves, which would also mean savings and less waste.There are several times in each paper to repeat the same reason, of course without content, but it does not make any sense. I therefore propose that, even in this case, we give more votes in favour of the referendum than against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I will support these proposals, as I have said many times before. But I must say, my fellow Slovenian People's Party colleagues, I don't understand you. You are in favour of the Slovenian Mountains and say: honourable Members - sorry, colleague Kramberger, what I will now tell you - support this matter so that people can decide, but I have a copy of the vote on the Circulans, where the "quorum" was pressed, your fellow Member Rokavec, who has been lobbying us all the time to support us but there in Lithuania and so on, has voted "against". You can't have that. With such a double [[...]] [[Laugh.]] You can laugh because it's really funny what we're doing. [[...]] That's sad. That's sad. And all those people up here looking at us can be amazed. Yesterday they told me they saw you play games down here. It's sad what we do. And I don't know, yeah, I didn't learn that, I got something else. I think that if this is a serious matter, yes, then we should support and support all these proposals, because it is not about establishing congregations. It's about the referendums being signed. You think you're gonna be able to do this kind of thing. That's nice of you to say, I have to tell you this, so it's not serious and it's sad. Otherwise, I will support, as I have said, and our Group of Members will fully support all proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I firmly believe that the decision we are facing today as a national assembly and individual Members is one of those in whom you first decide as an individual with your conscience. I did not make the same decision in all cases because there were different conditions for individual referendum areas. That's what I've been trying to tell you in my debate. This is not the subject where the Group of Members should vote equally. This is the subject where Members interpret individually whether they are exceptions or not. If we read the law and the decision of the Constitutional Court directly, then we get into a situation where someone thinks it's an exception and someone doesn't. And it is only right that we Members have the same positions as we have them. It seems to me illogical for everyone here to vote with some political will. Because if that were the case, then there wouldn't be all this discussion here between us. I am sure that today was the best case for Gorje. The Gorje case was the best and it was the first. In the case of Gore, government representatives also failed to respond to a question that was of a substantive nature. In the case of Gore, everyone could vote in favour, but everyone would have a clear conscience and no one would have violated the legislation in force. From the first vote forward, we are prisoners to vote on our conscience, and I do not think it is right that we are now throwing each other's notes. That's not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Before I give you the opportunity to reply to Mr Sok and Mr Pukšić, both debates - Mr Sok, just a second longer - Mr Sok and Mr Sponik, do not judge the amendment to point 17. In the morning work, I think my colleague, Brace, made a clear request and repeatedly urged the National Assembly to stick to it. I'm continuing with his request to stick to the agenda, please. How someone voted, how someone didn't vote, dear colleagues, change in the lobby. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are obliged to address this moment of amendment under point 17 and I will not allow the discussions coming from this direction. I allowed it to you, Mr Sok, of course it caused what Mr Podobnik said. Please, Mr Sok, because you have initiated an assessment of how someone is voting, I ask you to cancel the replica if you intend to proceed. Thank you very much. If it is a question of how someone votes, please do not replicate. [[...]] Don't you? Mr. Sok, a replica, please. Then Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u193	No, Madam President, I disagree with your conclusion. I said I would vote in favour of these proposals in the Slovenian Gorica because I feel obliged to do so, but I wanted to say in some way that I do not see the difference between the Circulans and Golicina. I do not see this difference, even more so, the Circulsions are a marginal congregation, which could be subject to matters referred to in Article 13a of the Law, while Golicina is not a marginal congregation. And I do not understand this debate by Mr Spokonik. But I said I'd vote yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u195	Look, I am replicating in this direction when Mr Sponik said that we are voting on our own conscience. You know, everyone's conscience, but in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution and the laws we have. However, if we vote in our conscience in contravention of the Constitution and the legislation and the decision of the Constitutional Court, then we vote in the way that someone has been lobbied, and that is wrong. It is wrong to do so in Parliament. As the criticism on this side was, of course, this has also led to criticism of liberal democracy, and this is not correct and is not done with the Slovenian people. I object and protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State also made a statement. Mrs. Duster, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I would just like to clarify, given that it has been explicitly stated that in these three opinions the government has only written this and that, of course, a small part of the government's opinion has been taken, that the government's opinion also includes other data and in the municipality of Sveti Jurij in Slovenian Gorica is indicated, for example, in addition to the number of inhabitants, in the Government's opinion that primary health care is not provided, and that the 1998 consultation referendum was in that area, the result of which was negative, as well as in all three municipalities. The opinion states that in the event of the establishment of all three proposed municipalities in the area, the municipality of Lenartne would also be more eligible for this condition. It is also stated in the proposal of the municipality of Council of Trojica in Slovenian Gorica that it was also a consultative referendum and that the result was negative. Also in the municipality of Golicina, in particular in addition to the number of inhabitants, the government indicated that there was no primary health care provided and that there was a consultative referendum and the result was negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, please. Mrs. Prašnikar, can you please get rid of yourself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State! Look, as far as healthcare is concerned, we've already established that this is a relative condition. St. George is less than 4 km away from Lenart and there is a very good health facility and I don't think that's a question. We also set up a congregation in the previous term that was more distant than Sveti Jurij and Golicina, and it was not regulated. If this means, therefore, that if twice a week a doctor has a doctor in the territory of the municipality, if this is considered to be then a health care provision, I think it is the same as it was decided that this is a relative condition. As for Lenart, however, few people would be missing from the municipality of Lenart, so that the municipality of Lenart could have 5,000 inhabitants, so we can drag this story on forever. And when 5,000 people in one congregation die, then the congregation will have to be abolished if we view it that way. I don't think those arguments stand. We cannot argue that four years ago there were such and different solutions at the referendums and that those decisions are now being used by the government to argue whether or not the congregation will be. In short, they can't contain this explanation. The only condition it is, so the only argument is that there is no population. But we have 92 municipalities in Slovenia that do not have 5,000 inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to point I, point 17. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 35. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to point I, point 18, on the proposal to establish the municipality of Lithium, on the proposal to establish the municipality of Dole pri Lithija and on the proposal to establish the municipality of Šmartno pri Lithija. Under order number one, the amendment of the two parliamentary groups, the Social Democratic Parties of Slovenia and the New Slovenia parliamentary group, is to delete the whole point; under order number two, the proposal of the amendment of Ambassador Rokavac is to delete the text of the proposal in point 1 below point 18: "and the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Šmartno pri Lithuania". I am opening a debate on these two amendments. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. I am convinced that the proposal to establish the municipality of Šmartno in Lithuania is one of those proposals that fulfils all the conditions, regardless of whether it has been established so far that there have been some technical errors in the process itself, which can nevertheless be remedied throughout the whole procedure. The fact is that in the area proposed by the referendum area is said to be the referendum area Šmartno pri Lithuania, the regional community Šmartno pri Litia, Javorje, Kostrevnica, Jablaniška valley, without settlements Breh and Tenetiša, Štangarje Poljane, Vintarjevec, Velika Štanga, Primskovo - lives according to data obtained yesterday from the statistical office of the Republic of Slovenia, 5112 inhabitants. In its decision, the municipal council explicitly listed the area of those local communities in that proposal. There have been quite a few errors at this time, as in the decree of the National Assembly, because it did not define the local Primskovo community, and there was no debate in the magnetogram that I received at that time, no amendment; it is said that this was an explicit technical error in the official letter. In fact, it is eight settlements, Kamni vrh, Mihelca, Mišji Dol, Mulhe, Obla Gorica, Poljane pri Primskov, Primskovo and Razbore, which after so-called technical error fell out of the transcript of this area. And if all of this comes together, you can clearly get data from 5112 residents. This area is an economically rounded whole, the area is in fact also a circular whole and represents its urban centre, regardless of whether it is in direct contact with the current centre of Lithuania, but historically represents the area in fact rounded and also its area. I will be sure after this proposal has won, obtained a majority at this time, to comply with all the rules that are under way. However, I submit that this area fulfils all legal conditions, as well as health care. Not just what is a physiotherapist outpatient in Šmartna, which is irrelevant. But there is a permanent medical clinic in Tisje’s home with his doctor, who also has a concession for a health insurance company in the Republic of Slovenia, and there are 200 patients in Tisje’s home. Concession, however, contains 230 patients. So it works for 30 more patients - but that is, if we go only for technical purposes. However, if we are reading a 1998 Constitutional Court decision - and I will quote again - in the field of healthcare, it says the following. "The existence of an institution, e.g. a healthcare home, must be regarded as a circumstance of relative nature, not as an absolute condition. This situation, namely the existence of an institution, depends on the economic, geographical and other conditions that determine the local market, the relevant institutions and the time-range for the operation of the relevant needs. A different interpretation of Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government would lead to a vicious circle, as the existence of the relevant institutions is to a large extent legally conditioned by the existence of the municipality as a legal person." In fact, today the Secretary of State in the case of Gore, if I quote a magnetogram, has said the following. "I mentioned in the introduction yesterday the Constitutional Court's decision, of course, I will say, only parts of the individual part of the constitutional decision. But in our view, it is an important part of the constitutional decision, which states that the number of inhabitants is an important element of the local community. For this element is also, of course, decisive when we decide whether the congregation is able to carry out, that is, public tasks, or able to provide in its environment, i.e. to its inhabitants, even in the end the right to local self-government." End of quote. I expect that, given all the circumstances mentioned above, in this particular case, the National Assembly will have so much wisdom that it will actually take into account all the legal conditions that this proposal fulfils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you. So if the municipality of Šmartno is established in Lithuania, of course the number of people - you could say - was at the border, that is, 4907 according to our data. If you look at the explanation, the Government has also specifically pointed out that the applicants did not first justify the reasons for the exceptions and that they did not correctly mention the settlements of the proposed areas. So the government also found here that there had been an incorrect indication of settlements and, of course, the government had decided on a proposal adopted by the National Assembly and had been forwarded to the government for an opinion in which these specific settlements had not been mentioned. In addition, when preparing the opinion, the Government mentioned, of course, other conditions or other elements; namely, that primary health care for citizens is not provided in this area. I have said this several times before how this information has been found. So, the Ministry of Health, of course, has provided us with data in individual cases, whether it is a healthcare home or a health station, which, of course, according to their data, does not exist in this area. We also drew attention to the problem in both central settlements that a concentrated infrastructure is intended for the implementation of public services. Also, the fact that a previous referendum was carried out, or in part of this area - we know that it is not exactly the same area, we specifically mentioned - the result of which was negative and, on the basis of this, we could say, of course, that regardless of the fact that the number of inhabitants was very close to the legal condition, then, for other reasons, we have prepared such an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. Look. Yesterday, I said in my debate that, according to my assessment, it is irresponsible on the part of the government, including the local government, not to consult with the initiators in this particular case. The initiators weren't consulted, that's for sure. Another time. In terms of health care, applicants also clearly define their laboratory as the current health care home, which is almost at the border of the current possible new congregation. It's almost at the border, 100 meters away. I think it is absolutely necessary here to take into account the position of the Constitutional Court decision of 1998. But also, if you refer to the formal side, I told you again that there is a medical outpatient in the House of Tisje, with your doctor, if we go only to the formality. As for the referendum, look. There has been no referendum in this area so far. Once again, this area is a geographically rounded area, the rest of the area will still meet all the conditions, it will have almost 14,000 inhabitants, this area just over 5,000. So there are actually all the conditions here. And there's something else. This is one of those areas where there has been no reform of local self-government in our country. If we look only at Dr. Writer's 1993 proposal, he has identified the same area as proposed by this proposal. In 1993. I would suggest procedurally, Madam President, that this proposal should be voted on first, because this proposal is consistent and the amendment under number 1 is actually nonconsistent, the Socialist Party's Group and New Slovenia. Because if conquered, the congregation of Lithium is actually divided into two unrelated areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u206	Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. With regard to the amendment of Parliamentary colleague Rokavac. I pointed out the exact case of the Šmartna referendum area in Lithuania several times yesterday. For me, it would be very important when the government found that the applicants did not correctly mention the settlements of the proposed areas. If I understood the Minister correctly yesterday and also today you, Madam Secretary of State, said that when you found that there had been some inaccuracies or ambiguities, you invited them to talk. It would not be the only logical, however, to point out in the process itself and then to fully correct the procedure at that time and to find that we have before us a referendum area that has formally more than 5,000 inhabitants. The answer to this question seems very important to me, because if we find out that you have warned them about this or if we find out that you did not warn them about it - Comrade Rokavec said that there was no such conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mrs. Duster, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u209	Here I would like to point out that the establishment of the new congregation of Šmartno near Lithuania was proposed by the congregation council of the congregation of Lithium and that it was right in this case because there was confusion, since we ourselves found that the settlement was not properly mentioned, in this case we contacted the leadership of the congregation of Lithium because he had proposed the establishment of a congregation council of the congregation of Lithium. In fact, we have found that the data are incorrect, and we have also specifically pointed out this in our opinion. We have also warned and specifically stated that there are no valid reasons to justify exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u211	Look, Madam Secretary of State, now, of course, you can say here that you have consulted representatives of the congregation. But have you consulted that certain settlements in the local community of Primskovo, where the municipal council has adopted a proposal to set up such a proposal for a referendum area, or have you consulted the representatives of the municipality to contain the area of KS Primskovo's entire settlement, because after your sketch you have before you, you have a network. You have what's called a network in Primskov. And if we did, I'm sure the representatives of the congregation would have told you that it doesn't contain all the settlements. And here I also have a proposal from the President of the local community of Primskovo, who clearly says that the Council of the local community of Primskovo agrees with the proposed referendum area. And he doesn't propose any exceptions. In fact, in the case of the local community, the Jablanica Valley specifically listed two settlements to be excluded. And if anything were to be disputed here, the congregation council should state it in its proposal. So it's purely a technical error. Once again, I ask you not to hunt and play on such technical errors, how to eliminate an individual proposal so that it does not meet all the data for formal reasons. That's what I think goes over the edge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, and because these data have entered some doubts, we will clear up this information within the scope of our service. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. We'll pick it up at 3:27. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u213	I inform you that it will take another ten minutes from this point forward to look at the services and clarify the uncertainty about the number of inhabitants so that we can decide on the proposal of the congregation council, as it really was. Thank you very much. I think we can move on. Please take your seats. Your Honor! That's all we're going to find out first, of course. [[...]] We're picking up the presence in the hall! There are 53 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. The dilemma raised by the amendment to point 1, point 18, was the one which was, of course, opened by the Member, Mr Rokavec, whether the local community is an integral part of the municipality's proposal. It was found that the municipality of Lithium had completed its role, in which it also stated that it was an integral part, that it would also like to see the local community of Primskovo as an integral part of the new congregation. It is also found that the criteria concerning the number of inhabitants are satisfied. Nevertheless, I would ask the Secretary of State, Mrs Prašnikar, to give an opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you. Therefore, in drawing up the opinion, the Government did not take into account the local community concerned, which was mentioned, namely the local Primskovo community, and taking into account this local community, as has just been established, this proposal would, of course, contain the number of inhabitants in accordance with the law. Nevertheless, I reiterate that the Government's opinion has been drawn up on the basis of other conditions, as we have already stated on several occasions, taking fully into account the joint consideration of both Articles 13 and 13a, and that it has also been justified by the other conditions which this proposal did not contain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u215	Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Wrong world, this is the wrong world! If it is now found, on the basis of a very correct explanation by the Vice-President, that the proposed referendum area is more than 5,000 inhabitants, there is no need to talk about exceptions. Then there's just the rest of the terms. The Constitutional Court, however, said that a healthcare home is not a condition. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the Secretary of State has also found that, as a quota of residents, he provides and also meets the criteria for the establishment of a newly formed municipality, I would say the following, that you would have followed a handful of excuses that you had overlooked. Which, of course, as a number of people, contains all the conditions they do not have under your criteria right now, including the infrastructure that you claim does not reach the criteria themselves. For the sake of your own defense, as Mr Rokavec has warned you several times before: this congregation meets all the conditions. I think it would be such a diction or your defense or your response on the spot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, I'm closing the debate. The dilemma, of course, which Mr Rokavec initiated at the outset, is a little more complicated when it comes to finding this fact, which occurred in the context of the finding of a technical error, the fulfilment of the conditions has counted the population - if we decide first on the amendment under order number two, but we should first, of course, have an amendment under order number one. Of course, if we are to achieve the objective that you are pursuing, we must vote on the amendment under order number one, allowing the referendum area for two municipalities, if adopted, within the framework of the government proposal, within the framework of the proposal or within the framework of the amendment of the two parliamentary groups. In fact, your proposal would lead to the opposite of what the first amendment's proponents want. Is that right? We decide first on the amendment under just a moment. [[...]] We decide on the amendment under order number one, of course, with a note, if not adopted, we decide on the amendment under order number two. If the amendment is adopted under one, it is irrelevant under two. With such notes, decision-making is correct. Voice explanation, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the first amendment because, even if we respect the principle of the law on local self-government and we also have to make it clear as a national assembly, if we support the first amendment in order to cause the area of proposed referendums to be unconsistency. I therefore proposed that it should be appropriate to vote first on the amendment proposal under number two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much. In fact, you do not respect the will of the proposed amendment under order number 1; they also want two municipalities to decide to exempt themselves from the decision to reject their application. And I think the explanation is correct enough. We are voting on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 47. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. It's 51 votes to 12. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment under number two has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 19, to the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Mala Sunday. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 20 votes against 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to point I, point 20, to the proposal for the establishment of the Bogojin Congregation. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u222	Thank you. Just for a little while. I would like to say that in the local community of Bogojin, they started preparing to have their own congregation back in 1994, and that at the then referendum, 76% of the people decided to have their own congregation. At that time, however, the government concluded in its opinion that Bogojina did not have a primary school. In its opinion on today’s proposal, however, the government notes that the school environment is too large and that if Bogojin had been expelled from the municipality of Moravske Toplice, the school’s seat would have remained in Bogojina and that, I do not know why, the implementation of the primary school program would have been disrupted. The fact is, there have been many complications in this area with regard to the call of the assembly of citizens in this round, but the assembly of citizens have nevertheless been concluding and people have made the majority decision to have their own congregation. Thus, already in 1994, Bogojina began this process and settled matters for her congregation. Obviously, this time too, it will not be good enough to have at least a referendum in this area and to ask people whether they want to have a congregation or not. I propose, honourable Members and Members, that in this part of Prekmurje, where the issue for demographic reasons is extremely problematic, we support this desire and give people in Bogojina the opportunity to succeed in this eight-year effort for a single congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 63 Members and Members present. 23 votes to 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 21, to the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Rečica ob Savinja. Mr. Zampernik, please. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Madam President. Municipality of Rečica ob Savinja, I spoke a little about this municipality earlier, when in 1998 the village of Prikhova was isolated from the present municipality of Mozirje and joined the municipality of Nazarje. By that time the local Rivers had somehow felt neglected, for this had divided the congregation into two parts. Well, not just that. In the area of the former congregation of Mozire, from which five congregations were formed in 1994, and in 1998 another, Solčava, felt neglected all the time. They say they're in the same position as the Montenegrins in the former Yugoslavia. All the other republics have gone out, and they are somehow "ruining" in the former great congregation of Mozire. As a result of this desire to allow them autonomy, as with all other municipalities in this area, please support the referendum in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 36. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 22, to the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of the Centre near Drava and to the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Sveti Tomaž. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Otherwise, as it seems, without hope, but, if not otherwise, because of the magnetogram, I want to say that the congregation of Ormož has not shared in the past period. So it remained united, even though it was once the size of the Ljutomer Congregation or the Lenart Congregation. Both the municipality of Ljutomer and the municipality of Lenart have been divided in the past periods; in both areas, there have been about four municipalities, both in Ljutomer and Lenart, and of course the inhabitants of our area can observe and observe that these neighbouring municipalities, which are able to get along well and make extraordinary progress. I was here yesterday when I even resented some Members, but I didn't want to, I read some conclusions, some positions of our local communities, which they also forwarded to this national assembly, but unfortunately you didn't, Members and Members, get them, so I introduced them here and I don't want to repeat them. In both cases, the procedure for autonomous municipalities has been initiated by the saints of local communities, both at the Centre and at St. Thomas. Both municipalities have - or both communities, where they want to have their own municipality - this unfortunate circumstance so they do not meet the criteria of the population - they have about 2300 people there - but they meet all the other criteria: they have school, they have kindergarten, they have post office, they have shop, they have church [[...]] The Municipality of Medišče ob Drava is also a municipality in the Municipality of Drava with neighbouring Croatia and I can tell you that one of the last municipalities that lost the status of the municipality in the Republic of Slovenia in 1958 and 1959. In the Centre there is an extremely rich cultural, economic, and different life, and today, for example, the active society Sokol and Sokolano, which shows that this area was in a state of emergency, I would say that in these national movements it is extremely national conscious. There's nothing else about St. Thomas. In one place or another, they find that they are disadvantaged for development and that the opportunity of a single congregation would give them new development opportunities. I also think that there could be at least three congregations in the area of the present congregation of Ormož, with a large degree of development, while we are now somehow associated with various interests in one large congregation. All of us are about 18,000, and in the long run, of course, we could provide three, I would say, outstandingly successful congregations. What the government says in its proposal, in its opinion to which the Secretary of State is referring here, is a copy and is a finding by the Armenian municipal council, which is absolutely not true for these two environments. Thus, neither the Centre nor St. Tomaž were in the past a net recipient of financial resources. It is mentioned here that a school has recently been built at St. Tomaž, but I can tell you that the inhabitants of this town have been paying 15 years of congregation contribution that after 20 years they received a school with the help of the State and with the help of the Ormož Congregation. In fact, as a compensation for a prefabricated facility built by the State there in 1970, when a serious traffic accident occurred, because by then the students of the rigid area, from Tomaž to Ormož, were driving to the school on Ptuj, and in early 1970 the bus carrying the children was brought under the freight train and there were many children dead and many children injured. And in return, the country built a boarding school in that area. And after 20 years, they got help from the state in this area. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] - I'll finish right away - a wall object. However, as I said, for 15 years they paid for the congregation’s contribution. And that opinion is at odds with every logic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u228	Let me finish, Madam Vice President. I suggest that you support this proposal for a referendum in these two areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. Of course, to deal with such inaccuracies and to operate with dead children to defend something, I'll say, at least in what. The municipality built a new school two years ago and a new school in 1972. At a time when there was no school with a gym at either the city center or the municipal center. You heard today that the Constitution guarantees the right to local self-government. What the speaker said is true, because we did not share, not in 1994, and not later, we were able to provide fairly good quality parliamentary or constitutional duty to provide local self-government and build since 1973 at the rate of one school or sports hall every other year, one gym and so on. Of course, such misinformation is also good for political purposes. But I have to say for the Drava Centre: all our local communities are legal persons, the entire Ormož municipality is a border assembly in the 10-kilometre band, except for 5% of the area, that there is still solidarity, that the city of Ormož is paying an energy contribution, that the Centre next to Drava can be gassed and that it will pay 21 years, because otherwise there would be no gasification that what others are fighting for, these local communities of ours have. Not only do schools, outpatients and the like, in the Centre ob Drava there are even pharmacy stations, institutions and pharmacies are municipalities, of course for 2,000 people, no pharmacy is viable, so unprofitable business covers, of course, pharmacy or indirect municipalities, and so on, because there were discussions yesterday, questions to the government about what it means to endanger infrastructure or the performance of economic public services. It also means that if the municipalities of the Centre were to be exterminated, that all the main pipelines that supply the rest of the municipality and the neighbouring municipality of Ljutomer were to be cut down, and whoever knows the legislation knows who is responsible for what property and how one municipality could provide a smooth flow and similar business. Of course, the municipal council rejected with a large majority of both initiatives, with a score of 17:7, with one abstention and one absence. And of course, if we were to elaborate in the assemblies of the citizens who had been convened, and specifically for the Centre two - why two, because one settlement demanded separately because it did not want to be present - the assembly of citizens was inconclusive. However, the proposal for the municipality of Sveti Tomaž can be seen and sent to citizens by signed requests from the village of Zgornji Klutarovci that they want me to convene a assembly of citizens and to allow a referendum for secession from the area envisaged for the new municipality. This quality, if I may say so, has been so clever in the past, has made it possible, even though they are talking about how we are not developed and I don't know what is really missing, but that the quality of local self-government is significantly different from that of those who have shared, and many also publicly acknowledge this. Of course, if we weren't as strong as we are, we wouldn't be able to open a house next week for the elderly for 150, without the help of a country, one tolar, and in the value of an investment a billion 100, this is a unique case in Slovenia, and similar matters. And in such power and reputation, we have also received foreign loans such as Paris's credit, which, you know, is the only one, except what the state has taken, and this, of course, requires some critical mass to be able to meet the needs of citizens in the broadest sense of ensuring local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u232	If we were to listen to this, it would seem that everything is truly perfect and in order. So I'm really sorry that you didn't get the Members what they sent to Mr Pahor from these environments. He just didn't split it up. I read it myself yesterday. This is from the meeting of all eight presidents of the local communities, held on 28 November 2001. To not tire you, just one point, first, I will read: "Members of the worlds of all local communities are very disappointed and bitter about the manner and powers of local communities," and then further describe what is being done and how these matters are going. As far as Tomaž is concerned, I can tell you that four or five villages of the 15 still have no water; there are more than half of the roads of the Macadamese. Yesterday I said that people carry one pair of shoes in their hands in the morning to change when they get on the bus, not to come to Ormož, or to Maribor, or to Ptuj, because there are no jobs in Tomaž anyway, so they do not come with mud shoes. So, this is our reality. And these people here say that if something doesn't happen quickly in this area, that this area, which is extremely quickly empty, will become the village of the elderly, the majority of farmers and workers with very low incomes. I'm not going to argue that we didn't get some cases in Ormož at Tomaž's expense and that we won the Centre. I'm in Ormozh's house. Indeed, we are also opening a home for the elderly, or as Mr Trofenik said, with a mortgage on a Paris bank rented by a private company set up together with the municipality of Ormož. Of course, we'll have to get it back, we'll have a home, but good, we need it. We also received new jobs, including high school in recent times, with the help of the state and, of course, through engagement, municipal roads. It is also true that we have built many sports facilities, but most people do not live on sports, live on what they create and, above all, have neglected the development of municipal infrastructure. These are also the reasons in these laboratories, which the government has unfortunately failed to let go and has not analysed in detail, and for these reasons these communities are decided on for their own congregations. There were assemblies of citizens, in Tomaž there was a congregation of citizens attended by over a hundred inhabitants, of course all were invited, but only four of them voted against not having their own congregation. In the area of the Drava Centre, there were two congregations, one in the Centre, where all of the 100 percent confirmed that they wanted to have their congregation, and one separate assembly for two other villages, where the assembly of citizens was unconstitutional. I think it all says that the people in this area actually want their own congregation. But if they don't want it, then they'll be at the referendum, if they get it, they'll reject it anyway, and the matter will become irrelevant. So all I ask is that we give them this opportunity to declare themselves as border congregations and then the national assembly decides whether or not they will have a congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Before I give you a chance to replicate Mr. Trofenic, Mr. Onion wants. [[No, no, ……]] Procedural proposal, Mr. Onbulj.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u234	Dear Vice President, look. This fight between the municipal councilman Ormož and his mayor, I don't think that's the way to debate it is, in fact, a political struggle for the likely local elections, probably the mayor's city. I would suggest that such treatment may be allowed to address the incompatibilities of the functions of municipal councilors and members of the national assembly, and of course also of the mayors and Members of the national assembly. Otherwise, I would ask you to stop these discussions because they are not part of the National Assembly, because this is actually the mayor's and the Council's account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Onbulj, as you probably know me, I am very closely listening to the debate and this was one of the more important debates on determining whether conditions are met and weighing all the arguments "for" and "against". So if you think you're not the first or the second to state the valid reasons behind the amendment that's before us, believe me, that you'd already warned them. Yes, both of them know exactly what the matter is, and their debate certainly shows. So I think that my assessment of allowing me to discuss both of them was correct and that I am not interrupting their debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 67 Members and Members present. 21 votes against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 23, of the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Pertoc. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. Let's vote! 65 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 38. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 24, the proposal to establish the municipality of Makola and the proposal to establish the municipality of Poljčana. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 64 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 36. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 25 of the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Planina, a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Ponikva and a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Šentjur. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 37. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 26, the proposal to establish the Municipality of Mokronog and the proposal to establish the Municipality of Šentrupert. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. 23 votes against 38. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 27, to the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Leskovec. I'm opening a debate. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u236	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I am convinced that the municipality of Leskovec would not have made mistakes if it had been confirmed or established by the referendum area. So, if you would consider this exception. Look. The present municipality, Videm municipality, under which this local community belongs, also agrees, and it is two very different settlements, one on the Ptuj-Dravsko Field, the other on the Ptujsko-Dravsko Field, namely Leskovec, Zgornji Leskovec, this settlement is located in Haloza. Haloze, you know who you've been walking around these places, you know how difficult this is to build infrastructure. I must also say that this is a cross-border local community and that it is practically without those border indications that mark the country of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, we could precisely set a border. This suggests that the neighbouring country of Croatia can do much better for border areas than we know. I'm sure we'll vote for that. [[...]] [[The riots in the parliamentary benches.]] Colleagues and colleagues, because I'm going to finish quickly, I'm not known to talk for a long time, but look. [[...]] Indeed, this is a specific matter and I propose that we take it into account and establish this referendum area. In its opinion, the government was very stingy and wrote a classic sentence just like almost all the explanations. Allow me to read it: "In view of the reciprocity of conditions that define the permanent capacity of the congregation to meet the needs and interests of its inhabitants, the government considers that the proposed municipality of Leskovec could not provide them permanently." This learned phrase is accompanied by all the opinions that we have actually considered today. I would ask if this proposal for a referendum area could be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u238	I am joining the proposal to vote in favour of establishing this congregation, and what they have written is true. The proposal for the establishment of a new municipality in Leskovec, the Municipality Council of Videm supports, proposes the establishment of a municipality in the area of 1980, and the proposal is based on a proposal with a rounded geographical area, a border area and a position in the hilly part of the present municipality. I think they have every right, in accordance with the legislation in force, to obtain a referendum area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 34. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 28, to the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Podnanos. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u240	Hello, everyone! If you look at the Rapporteur on page 73, the application is black and that is only half of the proposal black. Otherwise, Lozice and Podgrič also belong. He used to talk to Mrs. Secretary, and she told me it wasn't in the material. And indeed, even in the material we have at our disposal, it is not. During this time, I called on the President of the local community, Podnanos, to send me documents after fax indicating that the role or initiative or the proposal to have it spelled out correctly, with Lozica and Podgric, and that we should consider this. Now, why didn't it come to Mrs. Secretary, I just don't know. I have papers here, I can give them to you if there's anything to vote on, I don't know. Just so it doesn't turn out that someone was trying to set something up. Of course, now such a proposal as it is drawn, you probably wouldn't be too excited about it yourself. Just because it says that there are 831 inhabitants, and in fact because there are two local communities, about 1450 - do not hold me to the word, for a few people, the inhabitants - and Podnanos was also said to be an old congregation, some of which, before the last division of the congregations, when Vipava seced from the Ajdovščina, there were also initiatives. I don't know why it didn't work. Basically, these people would like to reach their congregation in a democratic way. They also have a developed congregation to claim that they can survive alone. So I see no reason not to support it; just, now I don't know what the procedure is for these papers. Can I deliver to you? I don't know. Tell me. Or should we take a break? I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u241	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, Mr Mamić, I'll give Mrs Prašnikar the floor to explain what I think you've already exchanged a few words on your dilemma. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u242	Thank you. As I have already said, we have drawn up an opinion on the basis of a proposal made by the Council of the Local Community of Podnanos, which contains settlements which are also listed in the material. And these settlements, of course, also, as stated, comprise 831 inhabitants. By way of another proposal concerning the Vipava Congregation, the second proposal was not transmitted to us. Furthermore, in the opinion we also stated that there is also a four-year primary school in the proposed area and that primary health care is not provided in this area, as well as that the rest of the present municipality of Vipava already - if this was of course a concrete proposal we were talking about - so that the remainder would no longer comply with the law of certain conditions for the municipality.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u244	Look, after college, I got a notice that everything was filed in time. And if I read, say, one sentence from a letter from the local community dated 4.12.: "In view of your letter and the accompanying copy of the letter from the municipality of Vipava, we inform you that within time and according to the law, the proposal for the appointment of the work of the municipality of Vipava to the new municipality of Podnanos has been submitted to the councils of local communities Podnanos and Lozica, which have also signed the proposal and whose settlement Kraševec and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Grič, Podnanos and Poreč have also formed a referendum area by decree of the State [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u245	Mr. Mamić, allow me!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u246	Well, that was it! That came to the government!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u247	Mr Mamić, because Mrs Prašnikar answered my question that, when these papers were coordinated, she did not see them, I will certainly do the same as in the case of Mr Rokavac. I'm adjourning the session in ten minutes, and I'm asking you to coordinate. Thank you very much. We'll continue at 4:37.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u248	Your Honor! Since we've been able to clear up the misunderstandings, please join us. Once again, with respect and respect, please, because we have cleared up the misunderstandings, we will proceed. Dear Members and honourable Members, since we will be able to determine the presence, please take your seats. We're detecting a presence. 52 Members and Members are present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. After consulting Mr Mamić with the Sectional Services of the National Assembly and with the representative and the representative of the Government, we resolved the misunderstandings that led to this interruption. We are moving on to the decision on the amendment to point I, point 28, this is the proposal to establish the municipality of Podnanos. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. The vote was 27 to 38. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 29, to the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Francolov. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u249	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I would like to justify or argue the request to continue the procedure for the establishment of the municipality of Francolov. First of all, I would like to mention that Francois was already a congregation, not in a gray age, but closer to us. So if they were then able to exercise their rights, desires, and needs in a single congregation, there is probably no reason not to justify that task now. The fact is that Francolov also has a favourable geographical position - lying on both sides of the Celjje-Maribor main road. This means that we will not have to follow any paths into the world as we have heard today. I would also like to mention that he probably also meets the other conditions that are enshrined in the current legislation, which we have talked less about today: apart from this health service, they have a school, a kindergarten, a post office. Let me mention that their 3213 mail has long existed, this is probably also one of the main advantages compared to others, because mail is not so easy to obtain. As we have talked so much about health care today, I can say that it will also be arranged in the near future. Surely, though, if they were a single congregation, they would have done so much earlier. For this they also have much evidence in the nearby neighborhood, where congregations were formed that are about as large as Franco’s. It is true that as a local community, Francois is now developing quite well, but the immediate past has shown that those places that have received a single congregation have developed significantly more rapidly. That is why the Frankolovians expect to be given the opportunity to continue the procedure for the establishment of the congregation and, therefore, to ask for the support of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 37. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point I, point 30, to the proposal for the establishment of the Log-Dragomer municipality. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss the Lord Knock, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u251	Respectable. The Log-Dragomer area lies near Brezovica, a direct area along the outskirts of Ljubljana, where big migration takes place, creates a large bibian center, a center and in a few years the population has grown. It certainly has this settlement now far from the municipality of Vrhnika, which is somehow out of the gravitational direction, because it is a settlement gravity against Ljubljana, Ljubljana cannot join because the municipality of Brezovica is among them, so it is reasonable to listen to the initiative to hold a referendum and if the referendum shows a high degree of consent of the peoples, it would be appropriate for these countries to allow their own congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 37. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the last amendment to point I, point 31, which is to the proposal for the establishment of the Izlaka municipality. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 22 to 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are now moving on to a debate and decision on the amendments to point II, namely that "the National Assembly finds that, by law, certain conditions for defining the part of the territory of the municipalities and their accession to the neighbouring municipality do not comply" - this is the Committee's proposal. Two amendments to point 1 are added to point II, which are identical. The first is Ms Maria Possonec, the proposers of the amendment with the same content are also members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that. I took the initiative to identify the settlement of Martjanci and the municipality of Moravske Toplice and to join the municipality of Murska Sobota. I would point out that this is not my electoral environment, so it is not a minority, which I have decided only for righteousness' sake. Since the local community of Martjanci, which covers the village of Martjanci, decided unanimously at the assembly of citizens on 21.5.2001 to take the initiative to designate the settlement of Martjanci from the municipality of Moravske Toplice and to join the municipality of Murska Sobota. I believe that they have very important reasons for this, because the village of Martjanci is in fact with all the connections concerning local self-government related to Murska Sobota. In the former municipality of Murska Sobota, this settlement was treated in all spatial plans as a suburban settlement. The Martjanci settlement has a built-in sewer that is connected to the cleaning plant of Murska Sobota. The village has been supplied with water from the town's Murska Sobota water supply since 2000. The village of Martjanci has an orderly disposal of waste carried out by Komunala d.d. It's a Saturday. And for me, what's even more important, this village belongs under the Mursophos school environment and so all school-bound children attend an eight-year-old at the primary schools in Murski Sobota. Another very important thing is that all the workers in the village of Martjanci are in the area of the Municipality of Murska Sobota, which means 92% of all the inhabitants. Therefore, I believe that the village of Martjanci is connected with municipal infrastructure, business, transport, administrative, development, cultural and traditionally with the city of Murska Sobota. Since they do not want a new congregation, since the other three cases have been positively resolved, I hope that you will support this amendment. As far as the health care home is concerned, the health care home in Martjanci, namely the Murska Sobota branch, will remain where it is, and that Moravian Spas do not have a health home, if they go to Moravian Spas, they welcome. Now to find that they are not able to provide their citizens with health care, this is therefore a little funny. That's one. Second. I think that this - a health home - is being abused all the time because I don't know, but someone really has these weird ideas that we're going to be building a health home at every community center right now. You know the medical network is almost in sesulin, so they're private doctors. So I don't think that's really the reason that five hundred people can't leave because six thousand people don't have a special health care home, even though they have just this exposure from Murska Sobota. I'm asking you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please. Mrs. Possonec, can you turn it off? [[Yeah.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u255	Yesterday and today, they rarely give Members the opportunity to gain cheap political points, in a way that is not good. I don't know why Mrs. Pozsonec has to do that. I'll explain why. In fact, she herself said that this was not her constituency, and this solution would also affect members of Hungarian nationality. That's why I said it. But here's the reason. Look. If you take the Rapporteur to the 80th page and take a look at the cartographic view of the municipality of Moravske Toplice or see my hand, if you cut out a cube in this page, it is about a village in Martjanci, which counts for five hundred people. In the congregation of Murski Sobota, as was said, nothing was done at that time, but it was at that time. In the municipality of Moravske Toplice there has been a sewerage, a state road which is state but parallel to the state road, you know - those who are mayors mainly - sidewalks, lighting, all the infrastructure that goes under the road. The medical station has been restored. A sports center was built. Migration of all inhabitants of Pomurje is in the direction of Murska Sobota, not just Martjanec. The Martians are very close, closer to Moravian Toplice, but in this system also cartographically within the municipality of Moravian Toplice. It is highly likely that the medical station would be shut down because Murska Sobota has a very strong system. The Moravian Spas in this case are completely lost. The second thing I was gonna say. If you're looking at my fingers, this lower part of Gorička is flat. And the main part of Goričko is also part of Hungarian nationality, along the border of course. The Martians, given what I said they were built - and about the system of financing, of course, the revenues that are for a municipality would, this time, also be used for other parts of the congregation. It's also Goričko's work, and it's also covered by a fellow Member. If we take this out, the municipality receives so much less money that this time would be used for the needs of the people we talk about. The Martians were a larger local community, covering four or five settlements. They split up in the middle for reasons that you also know, but this time only the part that was built moved. Other settlements from the former local community Martians will never see the sewerage of the sports center, the health station will never see, but they will remain in the municipality of Moravian Toplice and will be financed by the remainder of the income that would only flow into the municipality of Moravian Toplice. I don't come home alone without driving through this village. And yet I hope to say this and vote "against" because this solution does not seem fair to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Possonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u257	I don't understand the connection to the community I represent. That's one. And second of all, they used to build a really weird sewer line on the room network. That's where they built the sewers on the dormitory network, because that's what they have. So, once again, I repeat: municipal, infrastructure, business, transport, administrative, development, cultural, is connected to Murska Sobota. And the decision is in your hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u259	The canalization is directed towards the cleaning plant in Murska Sobota because it does not flow to the shore. Second. Water supply is for the majority of Prekmurje - or for the former municipal municipalities are water springs in the municipality of Murska Sobota. And the vast part of the congregation of Moravske Toplice, the rest of which is supposed to be, is supplied from these water resources. It's a waste dump. We know that they are not built in every congregation, but they are built centrally for the whole of Pomurje. It seems that even one part of Slovenia is built in Puconci, where waste is collected for the entire Prekmurje, not only for Martjanec, where there are five steps of inhabitants. And it's just a matter of circumstances. The same properties as the Martians have have at least 30 villages in Prekmurje, which gravity on Mursko Sobota, where Mura is with 5,000 employees and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to an amendment decision under number one. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 21 votes against 36. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted; this has also made the amendment of two parliamentary groups of the same content irrelevant. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendments tabled under point III, namely changes to the names and seats of the municipalities. In order to discuss and decide, I am making an amendment to point III, point 1, by means of an initiative to change the name of the Municipality of Dobrova-Polhov Gradec in the new name of Dobrova. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 33. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point III, point 2, namely the amendment to the initiative to change the name of the municipality of Miklavž in the Drava Field to the municipality of Miklavž. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 33. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the debate on amendments to IV. Chapter, I can say, on the proposals for changing the status of municipalities. First of all, I am putting an amendment to point IV, point 1, to discuss and decide on the status of the municipality of Jesenice in the municipality of Jesenice. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 27. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the amendment to point IV, point 2, namely the proposal to change the status of the municipality of Radovljica to the municipality of Radovljica. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u261	Thank you for your word. Respectable. The municipality of Radovljica is also competing for the status of the city congregation for the same reasons as we have just confirmed Jesenice and is also able to decide on this status. The municipality of Radovljica has acquired city rights since 1473 and after a decision by the Constitutional Court, and also by law, this National Assembly has already recognised the status of the municipal municipality on the basis of historical facts. I am also personally convinced that if the proposal for Radovljica to gain the status of the city congregation was confirmed, surely one of the neighboring congregations would join such a congregation. Moreover, the criterion, one of the criteria that there are insufficient jobs in relation to the active population, is not true, as it is about five years ago in the municipality of Radovljica, which has a distinct - where the economy consists mainly of industry, there were many bankruptcys that have now been remedied, and according to last year's statistics, the Radovljica municipality is among those where unemployment has been the most reduced and the number of jobs has increased, and it is also steadily increasing. I believe that this is a sufficient reason for the municipality of Radovljica to also be able to do so and to gain the status of the city municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 26. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the last amendment to point IV, to point 3, to the proposal to change the status of the municipality of Škofja Loka to the municipality of Škofja Loka. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 28 [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the amendment under three has not been adopted or has not been accepted under point three. We are moving on to the debate and decision on amendments to V. I am giving to the debate and decision-making of the amendment to point V, point one, the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Rence-Vogrosco. This is a change in the area, namely the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Rence-Vogrsko. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mamich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u263	Thank you. As I come out of the neighborhood so to speak, I know things from the future, I hope, of the congregation. Let me tell you some hard data, but rich. The congregation itself, or Renèa and Vogrsko, belongs to the border belt, so it does not border Italy, but is within a border band of 10 km. Then it has 4,100 inhabitants. It has an extremely developed economy, industry and construction and mining and chemical and so on. They have very developed agriculture, fruits and vegetables. They have 230 entrepreneurs. It is also promised that tourism will be developed because last year, when I was a guest of Hita, they said they would be working a new centre in Vogršček, so that tourism will also be fertilized with it. And, they also have a lot of opportunities to develop farming tourism because they have one beautiful palace and so on. What is very interesting is that they have 1,100 employees and still have job opportunities. As far as finance is concerned, they have proven to be able to live, not only to live, but from what they have, they only get back 13% of the money. Thus, all the conditions, so I think, are fulfilled that this congregation could, the new congregation, be called Renèa and Vogrsko. That's all for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u265	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. In fact, in the opinion of the government, which is actually very cheap, it is written "taking into account the reciprocity of conditions which determines the capacity of the municipality to meet the needs of its inhabitants, the government considers that the municipality could not provide them permanently". [[...]] In fact, before the decision is taken, I would be particularly interested because the Government does not explicitly refer to any of the conditions laid down in Article 13 of the Law. As I am aware, however, the condition of Article 13a is fulfilled here. In fact, it's a so-called border area in the border band. In fact, I am interested in what are the reasoned reasons which are, even under Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government, that this referendum area or proposal does not meet the conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u267	Thank you. In the event of the establishment of the municipality of Rence-Vogrsko, an elaborate was also submitted to the proposal for the establishment of an elaboratory in which the applicants listed everything in the area, i.e. from geographical-demographic characteristics, education, health, economic activities, including what is in the area. However, in this case, the government has concluded that, despite all of this - of course, we are talking again about exceptions to the number of inhabitants - this justification, in fact, was not the exception in fact that a proposal could be drawn up differently than we have prepared it. Despite the fact that the laboratory provided factual information, these justifications for the exceptions in this case, which we have examined in detail, were not such.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamic, please. Madam Secretary of State, can you please disengage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u269	The people who were here yesterday told me that when - I only mention this information once again, although I have already told him - the interior minister was told that only 13% get back from the realization, he was amazed. And as a member of the government, it seems to me that he was sorry that he had done nothing to help say any words to really establish this congregation. So if this congregation has no conditions, then there really is no one. Now, if we've taken them - how many we've accepted, we've got some. I think he deserves it more than anyone else, given the data.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Ellaborat on the establishment of the municipality of Rence-Vogrsko is one of the best we have received from Members and Members. This laboratory, which is also prepared in a way that clearly shows that the applicants have made serious preparations, of course also tells us what this municipality has: eight-year education, primary health care for citizens, food supplies, municipal equipment, which is then very carefully justified, postal services, financial services, library, premises for the administrative activities of local communities. Of course, the only question asked here is the number of inhabitants. According to the government, the population is slightly below 5,000. I will not repeat my previous views. I believe that this is a typical case when Members have to decide whether there are now grounds for exceptions. And this is where a very good argument can come in, and this is the boundaries of this congregation. I believe that all the conditions for the National Assembly to form this referendum area are here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So the old story repeats itself, a story from four years ago. The neighbouring municipality, which was established four years ago, Šempeter-Vrtojba, had seven thousand inhabitants and has been self-sufficient all four years ago, but four years after the will of the government and according to the opinion it was inappropriate. We barely got her through, and we're on the same page today. In the border belt, a good - lorded congregation that does not ask that it then be supplemented or that it will receive financial compensation - again, it is a bad opinion. This is the only congregation that is at least a little bit like the establishment of a new municipality in Primorska, throughout Primorska, to 32% of the country. I'll back her up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 30. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to point V, point two, namely the proposal to establish the Municipality of Straža and the proposal to establish the municipality of Otočec - Šmarješke Toplice. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I'm just closing up and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 34 [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The last amendment to point V, point three, is to the proposal for the establishment of the Municipality of Šmartno pri Slovenj Gradc. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 34. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the amendment that was tabled to point VI, namely the amendment to point one, which is the proposal to designate the settlements of Dogoša and Metava from the municipality of Maribor and their accession to the municipality of Duplek. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u275	So, both members of the Group withdraw this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u276	Since the amendment has been withdrawn - thank you very much - we will not decide on it. We have therefore ended our decision on the amendments. We are also obliged to vote on the proposal for a full decision of the parent working body. Let's vote! On the proposal for a decision of the parent working body in full with the amended amendments. If I have been unclear - no problem - we will repeat the vote. I decide we have accepted the amendments on the proposal of the decision of the parent working body. [[...]] We are fully deciding on the proposal for a decision with the amendments adopted. We repeat the vote on the motion for a decision, as I have explained it. Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. It was 42 votes against 17. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. On the basis of Article 14 of the Law, the Internal Policy Committee proposed to the Assembly that it adopt a proposal for a decree. Amendments have been tabled to this decree, namely in the review of the amendments to the draft decree under Article 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and for the determination of their areas, a single-phase procedure of 21.2.2002. In the light of the decision voted, the meaningless amendments remain for all but those which will, of course, be discussed and decided slowly. We will, of course, lead the debate and decision-making on the basis of the review of the amendments, as I announced, of 21.2.2002. In the light of the decisions taken by the National Assembly, the amendments on the first page, on the other hand, on the third page have become irrelevant. I'm putting in a debate and a decision, Your Honor, I hope you follow! [[...]] We're on page 3 of the amendments. I am making an amendment to the new EI to discuss and decide. point, that as a referendum area is established part of Brežica municipality, which is to be excluded from Brežica municipality - that I do not read because you have an examination in front of you. Allow me to clarify once again that we are on page 3 of the amendment review, namely, I am putting an amendment to the new D. Both the point and the new E.I. Point. By adopting the amendment, we voted that they met the conditions for Brežica, Bizeljska and Dobova. Therefore, we will first decide on the amendment for the new DI. the point, namely, to establish as a referendum area, and so on, as a result of this, the municipality of Bisell and the new EI. point, for the Municipality of Dobova. So I am putting an amendment to the new DI into the debate. Point. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u277	Thank you very much. I would not have a substantive debate, but totally procedural. See, at the previous point, the amendment to the decision, we have decided by a majority in this national assembly that the decision of the government or that the proposed decision of the Government is inadequate, and we have decided to accept or take the initiative somehow in this case, not to reject it as a failure to comply with the conditions laid down by the law. Given that there is virtually no other way than to call a referendum in this area, I think it is perfectly logical to follow that there can no longer be a decision on this now, re-decision on this, but it is only confirmation of what we have decided before. And I think that, on behalf of the rule of law and logic, it is perfectly logical that we no longer decide here whether this particular local community meets the conditions in terms of the Government's argument or not, or not, in view of that debate, but I simply think that there must be so much right in us that we now sign a referendum for this area, because if we do not do so, we will still have to call a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, let me explain. The law requires two acts. First of all, you don't want me to explain? [[...]] All you wanted to do was invite your colleagues to follow the first decision taken. Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on an amendment for a new DI. Point. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 36. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment for the new EI. Point. An explanation of the voice? I'm calling off the vote. Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u279	Madam Vice-President, the very nice gesture of fellow Members has taken place. Before making a decision, I would like to request a recess on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u280	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u281	We'd like to ask for a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u282	How long, Mr. Squirrel?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u283	We could use a little more time. And I thank you for the collegiate gesture of fellow Members and your culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Podobnik - how long before making a decision? How long before you decide? Excuse me, Mr. Sok. Mr Podobnik was the first to come forward with a procedural proposal. I want him to have the perfect floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u285	I'd like to ask for a 30-minute break. And we don't want to make any decisions today. That's not our purpose. But we are distraught by the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-21-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Since we usually finish work at 6 p.m., we will continue to discuss this item at 10 a.m. tomorrow, then in order to proceed. Thank you so much and good night!
