ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u1	I know some of the working bodies are still in session. I ask the Presidents to suspend their work and allow Members to attend the meeting. Please come to the hall. Many of our colleagues and colleagues are absent today. The national assembly will be able to discuss and decide only if all those present in the national assembly are present at the meeting. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Good afternoon. I ask everyone, both Members and Government representatives, to take their seats and not to disturb the beginning of the meeting. Before I begin the 14th session, I must inform you that, as we say, many colleagues and colleagues are missing, namely: Battelli, Jelinčič, Brejc, Horvat, Kacin, Partljič, Dr. Malovar, a colleague who is with us, Dr. Gaber, Čebulj, colleague of Possonec, colleague of Peterle, Fabjan, Weber, Bevk, Jerovšek, Barovič, Beumann, Juban, Jakič, Jerič, Vukko, Tarčon, Zalokar Orazem, Kopušar, Gračner and Štemberger. Many colleagues and colleagues are therefore absent. Today's work will only be possible if we are very collegiate and we will be present at the meeting all the time, so that decisions can be made. I think it's been enough minutes since 10:00 to be able to determine for the first time the presence in the hall. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. I'm gonna wait a few minutes or I'm gonna order a 15-minute recess until the session starts. We have a lot of work to do. We'll move on to point seven. Colleagues and colleagues! Please take your seats, place your ballots in the voting machines. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Order! I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! There are 46 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I welcome the representatives of the government and ask them not to interfere with the work of the National Assembly. Today's continuation of the 14th session will begin with the consideration of the 7th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on space regulation. Then we will move on to the 8th point, this is a proposal for a law on the construction of buildings and in order of order. If the Presidency of the National Assembly has an accurate record, it is now the turn of colleague Sok in the general debate. Nobody else? Here. Comrade Sok, you have a word that is limited to five minutes. Please, please. I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Actually, I have a replica of the performance of Mr. Minister. Yesterday was 6:00 p.m., and I didn't come up with my replica. I forgot a little bit about what I was trying to replicate today, but I'm gonna try to remember. So, Mr Minister, we have been talking about Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act, which is now being replaced by Article 5 of this Act, and you say that the protection of agricultural land is even better regulated in Article 5 of this Act than was previously done in Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act. This Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act, of course, concerns not only a change of destination, but also the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture had to give its consent to all those changes in the destination of land which affected the area of agricultural land of first quality. Unless the Ministry of Agriculture gave its consent, the Government could give full consent. It was because agricultural land was protected by such a procedure, and now this Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act is being abolished in some way. Our proposal was, and also the proposal of the other parliamentary groups - and such a proposal I also saw in the public debate - went in this direction that in this law on the regulation of the premises, the citation of Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act should be maximized and that this proposal should be prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Space somehow with the Ministry of Agriculture. So this debate went on this way, because it is necessary to be aware, which was repeatedly said yesterday, that the areas of agricultural land in Slovenia are limited and that what is once built cannot be put back into the function of agricultural space. Well, you somehow responded to this as I wrote that this idea is similar to the ideas of Marx and Engels, who wrote in their theory that any agricultural land used for another purpose should be replaced by a new agricultural land. So I don't know, I don't know these theories, but I know that's not possible. So if Marx and Engels were talking about it, they were wrong, like a lot of other people. So, the earth is certainly one of these, I would say, of the natural properties that need to be protected, as we have protected it, as I said yesterday, air and water; once a farm land is built, it is not possible to replace it with the same quality agricultural land. However, as far as the conflicts of interest brought by this space regulation law are concerned, I am aware that these conflicting interests cannot be prevented by the law itself. However, it is possible, of course, to minimize them by law, that the law is made up in such a way that in practice there are as few conflicts of interest as possible. However, these conflicts of interest do not occur when people are able to influence the processes themselves in regulating the space. Thus, if all participants can in some way influence the preparation of spatial conditions, the preparation of spatial acts, then there is also no reason for there to be, I would say, conflicts and excessive conflicts of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you. Please, Comrade Juban. A replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u4	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u6	I agree with all the debaters - I repeat to my colleague Sok - also colleague Rokavec tried yesterday to explain to this respected assembly the need to protect agricultural land. And I agree with all those who talk about it that it is necessary somewhere in some legal document to incorporate a way of protecting agricultural land as well. But the problem is that, despite the restrictive Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act, we have a situation where we have not protected anything or very little in this way through restrictive measures. What's the problem? Article 8 is unusual and we have tried to change it when we adopt the agricultural land law because we have three areas where we protect agricultural land differently. It happened that you protected the best land in one area as much as in another area almost worthless. Under this Article, it is possible to speculate that two years before a change of destination, the land was abandoned, reported an amendment, and instead of the land, there was an increase in the value of land, and contributions were made accordingly. Not to mention possible other speculations. We could talk about mistakes. We know that 30% was duplicating the municipalities, 70% to the state, and this part was also questionable because it could be written off or not in certain cases. The funds were earmarked. They weren't used on purpose anywhere. Perhaps where they respected the laws, they hindered their use and disturbances in the budgets of the congregations because they were intended or supposed to be controlled by no one. What's the problem? The problem of growth is quite different, that in the country of land we have a split and that we have a fine-separate structure. We have to protect the land in a way that will change that. This is a long-term process in any part of the budget, and of course in any other means. We have completely excluded the measures of the Commission, of course, of minor meliorations, I agree with the environmentalists that the larger interventions are not meaningful and much more so in this part, which is jointly called the regulation of agricultural land. And so far, no change in destination has given us any results, and so far it will not yield any results. If we continue not to take action, especially in the marginal part of Slovenia, regarding the integration of parcels, because if you have parcels, 30 pieces of 15 500 square meters, you combine them, someone is interested in this, and for 30 plots no one is interested, there are too few plots. And so on, I don't explain. Those who are familiar with the problem are likely to understand it. We have a budget for these purposes, I think 200 million. These are three projects all over the country. We have tried here, in this Chamber with an amendment, but of course the government or the ministry has objected to excluding from direct payments 20 billion for these measures, which would have a greater effect in the production economy than in direct payments which have become a political category, if we have to get this from a reduction of costs, but for these other effective measures we have not earmarked resources and will need to seek a future solution, also through the law of some restriction, so that it will not be possible to just interfere with agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u7	Does any of the Members and Members want a word before I give the floor to the Minister? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite the Minister of Mags. I'll tell you what I'm talking about. But I ask everyone else not to disturb the debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! We have certainly detected and, after all, the Committee's points of view also oblige us to further study or drink if I may use this term, paragraph 5. However, I would like to draw attention to this issue to the need to read paragraphs 4 and 5 of this proposal together. This law directs settlement or housing or other type of building exclusively to settlements and primarily to the rehabilitation of degraded areas within settlements. Mainly in building fillings within settlements. Expansion outside the settlements only allows for exceptional expansion. Maybe even more restrictive than it was today. And these exceptions are exceptions where, in Article 5, it states, objects directly serving agricultural or forestry activities, activities of the water economy, tourism, extraction of mineral raw materials and so on, and where transport infrastructure or energy is concerned, and when it comes to reconstruction, reconstruction, adaptation, maintenance works of legally built buildings. The only thing that is new here, given the current situation, is that this law allows the drawing of the so-called developmental area of the settlement, which is, of course, in the immediate vicinity of the settlement. This law is likely to allow less restrictive treatment of agricultural land, either within or within the settlement itself. However, I can say that it will be more effective than ever to protect agricultural land where it is actually complexes of agricultural land. The law itself translates not only concern for construction, but far from it. It's a law on regulating the premises. And of course, the law is aimed at protecting natural resources; of course, among them is certainly one of the most important fertile fingers or quality agricultural land. That's why I don't think we're gonna do anything wrong with this law. And even when there was a call here to make a text together with the Ministry of Agriculture - Articles 4 and 5 are made in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture. This proposal for a law went through interdepartmental treatment and we have prepared it together by various ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u9	Anyone else want a word? I guess not. Okay. Then I conclude the general debate and we are moving on to a debate and a vote on the decision of the parent working body. First, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal for a law on the regulation of premises at first reading is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." Anyone want a word on this proposal? Nobody. The national assembly will then decide on this proposed decision. We're voting! We are voting on the proposed decision of the parent working body. Present 51, 48 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the positions drawn up by the parent working body and recorded in the reports of the working body, as well as the discussion on complementary and follow-up proposals to the position of the parent working body. Anybody want a word? I would like to remind you that you have two documents, two complementary positions or proposals before you. The first one was prepared by his colleague Tanka, second colleague Weber. Does anyone want to discuss them? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will decide on our colleague Tank's proposal first. The proposal has four points. Does anyone demand that we decide on these matters individually? [[Yeah.]] Then we will take a separate decision on the proposals of our colleague Tank, which are recorded under order numbers 1 to 4. First, on the proposal under order number 1. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. First, on the proposal under order number 1 of the complementary proposal, Comrade Tank. We're voting. 50 present, 35 for, 10 versus. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the first supplementary proposal has been adopted. I shall put to the vote a proposal for complementary positions under order number 2. We're voting! 48 present, 25 for, 20 vs. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposal for a complementary position has been adopted. I shall put the proposal to the vote under order number 3. Once again, we will have to determine the outcome of the vote. May I have your attention, please, for the Assembly of the State! I will re-vote my colleague Tank's proposal under order number 3. We're voting. I'm asking for an assembly in the National Assembly! 54 present, 49 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that we have also adopted this proposal. We move on to the last, fourth proposal of Complementary Opinions, Comrade Tank. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote on the fourth proposal for complementary positions. 54 in attendance, 23 in, 27 in. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the fourth proposal did not receive the necessary support from the National Assembly and was not adopted. We can now move to a vote on the complementary position on the bill proposed by colleague Weber. We are voting on a proposal from our colleague Webra. We're voting. 53 present, 41 for, 7 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposed positions. We're voting. I'm asking for peace and order in the hall. 53 present, 51 in favour, no one voted against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed positions are fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THE FIRST DESCRIPTION PROPOSAL OF THE BUILDING LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] Minister Mag. Digger, please, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u10	I can tell you, this law is actually a twin marriage with a law that has just been dealt with. The law in question has just regulated the procedure for the adoption of spatial documents and this law governs the procedure for granting a permit for a specific intervention to the premises. The law had as its primary objective, in addition to updating, since the existing law is also from 1984, in order to significantly shorten the time needed by the administrative authorities to decide on a concrete intervention into the space. The law provides for only one permit to intervene into space, not more location and construction, as has been the case so far, but only a building permit, which will be different to the present one. An important novelty of the law is the identification of parties in the procedure. According to the law, not all parties in the procedure are automatically adjacent, for example, but only owners of real estate or co-owners of real estate in the so-called influential area of the facility. This means, in individual cases, a reduction of the parties to the procedure in relation to the arrangements so far and in individual cases an extension. The law introduces a novelty in the case of consent. First, of course, it narrows down the co-operators with regard to the regulation so far and, above all, lays down the rights and obligations of the co-operators. It imposes on them a period within which they must give their consent. This is 8 or 30 days for individual cases. If there is no consent within this period or there will be no reasoned refusal, the consent will automatically be deemed to be granted. By doing so, we will eliminate the current delays arising from the issue of licences when the investor was forced to seek new and new consents, including from certain entities that did not have any basis in the law. I can say that at the Ministry we are sometimes very surprised at the innovation of the administrative authorities, what they impose on potential investors to intervene in the area, although of course there is no basis in the law. Therefore, the transitional provisions of this Act will also seek to abolish the existing requirements of consent without a legal basis by one move. An important novelty of the law is that it allows the construction to start before the legal authority of the building permit, after completion. Of course, individual solutions or solutions are also envisaged, but what happens in cases where jurisdiction is not available later, despite the fact that the authorisation was final. Of course, the risk lies with the investor himself. The law provides for a particularly short-term authorisation procedure for all public infrastructure facilities. Here I can say that we have indeed gone into substantial simplifications or accelerations and therefore special attention is paid to these facilities of public infrastructure. The law also provides for the acute responsibility of individual participants in the construction of buildings and introduces some innovation also in the criminal provisions that have so far been, the truth to the heart, quite ineffective. In addition, the law provides a uniform classification of all types of objects. This is what has so far not been regulated in our legislation and is considered a harmonisation of the law with European rules. Therefore, this law also has an E code or is considered a European law. I am sure that when the law comes to life, it will, of course, significantly shorten the procedures, reduce the waiting types in dispute resolution and make the inspection much more effective than it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The proposal for a building law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. He wants the chairman of the committee to take the floor. Please. Here you go, Comrade Gerencher.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Minister with the co-workers! At its 19th meeting on 10 January and 23rd session on 6 March, the Infrastructure Committee considered a proposal for a law on the construction of buildings, which we received in the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. After a presentation by the proposer, we also decided to make a public presentation of the opinions on this law on the subject and interest of our public, as we expected many good proposals to come from this public presentation. This presentation was presented on 6 February and made, as I have already said, many good suggestions, proposals and also some comments. We hope that the government will also examine them and perhaps also summarize them when preparing the law for second reading. At the 23rd session, we then held the first reading of the bill, took note of the views and opinions of the public presentation of opinions and the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Assembly for Law and Legal Affairs, as well as of the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the Committee members' debate, we have also drawn up opinions and opinions on the draft law which we have presented to you in writing. In the debate, the members of the committee found that the proposal for a building law was prepared so that a good basis for the drafting of a second-reading bill was put forward and also felt that it needed to be complemented in terms of the positions we had drawn up for each article. In addition to this first decision, which I have already taken, let me say that we support the proposal of the law, that it is appropriate for a second reading, to draw attention to some of our views, just some of them because you have them in writing on almost two sides. There was a lot of talk about the assembly organisation and the purpose of the proposed arrangement of two chambers with different laws. We considered that it would be possible to draw up a separate proposal for a law on the professional chamber of designers and spatial planners. Further consideration is given to the possibility of the new organisation and competence of the Slovenian Chamber of Engineers under the current Buildings Act, as it is pointless to maintain this state of affairs in the preparation of new system legislation. It is necessary to examine the types of complexity of mineral extraction facilities and to define them; this is referred to in Article 11 of this Act. Check the possibility that facilities in public use also have a personal lift for the needs of functionally obstructed persons, as referred to in Article 16. In addition, the obligation to record the entire infrastructure that somehow binds to these facilities shall be included in the mandatory recording of the facilities. With regard to the dilemma raised in the public presentation of opinions, we believe that it would be good to examine opinions relating to the fulfilment of the conditions for the conduct of design activities and the revision of project documentation, including for university members. There was a lot of talk about this in the presentation of opinions, and somehow we also listened to the views of our universities to study and somehow engage in these important decisions or work. We also believe that it is necessary to examine the dilemma in the public presentation of opinions relating to the obligation that an economic operator should be entered in the directory of designers or performers at the Slovenian Chamber of Gozdarzy, as a condition for performing on the market of designers or implementing services. Furthermore, we were of the opinion that the right of the local community to define facilities for which a building permit is not required should be checked. This is a case of auxiliary facilities, and this has already been discussed in the introduction. In addition, to define the construction in its own direction and to follow the current provisions of the Construction Act, which also defines construction for buildings up to a maximum of 250 square metres of useful area. Furthermore, the scope of the mandatory ingredients to be submitted for authorisation should be verified. We know that this is a special chapter of the problems we face in everyday life and work. We have also considered whether to present to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the stage of the draft of this law or at the latest at the third reading of the sub-legislative regulation in order to better understand what lies ahead when we adopt this law. In the 26th indent, however, there is a typographical error. We have written that the comments from the public presentation should be taken into account. As a rule, comments from the public presentation of opinions should be "examined". And I ask that in this sense we also take this correction when we vote on our positions. And of course, the comments and opinions of the Commission on the local self-government of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia are being examined and, of course, the opinions of the Secretariat of the National Assembly for Law and Legal Affairs are also taken into account. So we believe that the proposed law is a suitable basis for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I begin my presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Mamić first asked for the floor on behalf of the Novi Slovenije Group. I ask if any of the members of the Group would then like to present their views. [[He does.]] First the word of colleague Mamić, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, then the colleague Tanko, on behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u14	All present, representatives of the government, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament are welcome. On behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, because we have prepared this law, we have sat down and spent a great deal of time preparing something to be prepared as qualityly as possible for the benefit of all of us, so that we will not be able to recast any articles in one year with new amendments and so on. I have written something, some comments, some concerns, and there is also some thing down, maybe superficial or for some other reason. And I hope we're covered in this material. With regard to efforts to simplify and shorten the procedure for issuing a building permit, which makes sense, the question is whether all the proposed changes are designed enough not to present new problems. The new solutions must ensure that the investor's rights are protected simultaneously in order to obtain a permit within a reasonable time frame, as well as the protection of the rights and legal benefits of those whose rights or legal benefits may be affected by the decision as well as the protection of public benefits. In this respect, they have entered into those provisions of the proposal for a new law which introduces a specific administrative procedure in this area. In accordance with the principle of the subsidiary application of the General Administrative Procedure Act, specific matters of administrative procedure in a specific law may be dealt with differently if this is necessary in order to proceed in such an administrative field and in this case follow the provisions of the general administrative procedure on those matters which are not regulated by a specific law. I will now give our opinions from article to article, so that it may take a little longer. I'm sorry. If we start with Article 11, a type of facility according to the difficulty of construction. It bothers me the most, personally, as a builder, what are simple objects, that these objects do not need static calculation. I'm against it. In fact, if the cross-section from the wall to the wall is more than 3 metres above the wall, there must already be an additional load element according to the regulations to ensure that the structure is good. This is, we know, the so-called rigid rib, if it is, say, grass or any other ribbing elements in the transverse direction. That is to say, if the object is designed so that it has an intermediate bearing element, such as a wall, then static calculation is not necessary either. Why am I saying this? Because this object can be predicted 30 square meters, of course it's not 15 times 2 but about 5 times 6, and if it's 5 meters apart, it's more than 3 meters, it's called for a carrier element in between. However, the bearing element cannot be without static calculation. I will also mention this under Article 55, including something in this regard. Article 12 speaks of the proposal on objects, the size of objects. I mentioned this problem on the committee, and Mr. Secretary turned me down if you want a bridge. It's not broken down here. In fact, in construction we know three types of buildings, these are low constructions, high constructions and industrial buildings; this is nowhere to be written and nowhere to be worked out, so that we can talk more easily. So if we talk about stairways in some buildings, as stated in Article 12, then we cannot talk about bridges - the bridge may also be 70 or more meters high, but it still does not belong to high construction, but it belongs to low construction, especially as a high building, but it does not belong to high construction. But it's a simple kiosk, if it's built, I don't know, according to some regulations, high-rise construction. So these things need to be separated, and I think they should be covered here too. As far as the staircase is concerned, I also suggested that - for example, it mentions in low objects - I apologize, I have to take a little look - the staircase in the second states that there must be a floor plus three floors or it says that if the building has a floor and less than three floors, there is a need for a staircase. [[...]] That's why we have to mention three steps, this is a low object, of course, but it's enough to write it, it's because of the disabled, because it has to be a lift if it says that only the building is higher than one floor, because if there's one floor, then we don't need a staircase or an elevator. But if we have to come with an elevator, and then, of course, on the next floor, it's enough to write, floor plus one floor, plus one floor, p plus 1. It can also be misleading. Why? Because it could be a basement apartment, but it's at the height of the ground. So I would write, I would suggest that it be written that if the building above the entrance is more than one floor, then it is also necessary to anticipate the possibility of building a staircase. I'm sorry, it's in Article 16, I screwed up a little thing on my own, I'm sorry. Well, now, if we move on to Article 23, administrative units do not mention, only in the transitional provisions of the province, unless they are established when the law is in force. It does not mention the provinces which are the competent authorities. I don't know why administrative units aren't mentioned. In order to propose the addition of point 9 and to mention the administrative unit. In Article 25, we ask why an investor acts on his behalf and on behalf of a foreign account. That's a little contradictory for me. Is it not a prerequisite for an investor to exercise an adequate right to build and to act on a foreign account as an investor’s agent? In article 50, we ask again how the co-designer calls for agreement to be deemed to be given after 8, 15, 30 days. I mean, it has to be written, whether it's by classical mail or by electronic mail, or by oral or, I don't know, by way of writing. Article 55 is somehow the continuation of Article 9 as regards the building permit. Why is it a prerequisite for building without building permits to move away from the adjacent land? See, adjacent land, if the neighbor does not agree to make the facility more than 2 meters and a half, must be a building permit, even if it is a small building, even if it does not need static calculation. But if it's three and a half meters away, more than three and a half meters away, then it can be those 30 square meters, as I mentioned earlier, and it doesn't need a static calculation, it doesn't need a building permit. That's a contradiction. So, I would say, if an object of its size requires a static account, of course also a building permit to take this into account. Not that it depends now on what the neighbor says, whether you have a building permit or not. That doesn't make any sense. Article 57 does not specify what must include the application to be complete. Or at least it could be a matter of the Minister's regulation without being generally stipulated in the law. Why is the need for proof of ownership not deleted if this is recorded in the official records. It's bureaucracy because you can't build if you don't have a location permit. Now it's gonna be together, it's okay, practically to cut hands. But if there's a location file, everything's covered in it. Data from the cadastra are written and recorded from the land book, so that it is clearly known that the owner has the right to build on his own. I don't know why he still has to prove it's his. Article 58 makes no sense to define the type of instrument relating to the type of right rather than to define the type of right in relation to the type of construction. What does point 3 mean? What charter and what law? I didn't get that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u15	I don't want to interrupt you, Comrade Mamić, but I'd like to inform you. The first paragraph of Article 183 states that the first reading shall primarily discuss the reasons for the adoption of the law and the principles and objectives. Of course, I will not interrupt you if you go from article to article, this is the task of second and third reading, but I just wanted to inform you, help you that you do not need to go now, at this stage of discussion through articles. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thanks for the heads-up. I speak to help the government prepare material for second reading more qualitatively. If you stop me, I can go sit down. I don't know anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u17	I wanted to help you in this way so that you can help the government in this way to prepare complementary positions for decision-making in the National Assembly. If you refer on behalf of the parliamentary group without giving complementary positions, the government may or may not take. But she doesn't owe them. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u18	Good. That means you're sending me to sit down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u19	I apologize to you. I didn't mean to interrupt. I was just trying to help you. If you want to influence the preparation of the law for second reading, then you need to make complementary observations. Comrade Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all, to the representatives of the government and also to fellow Members. The fact is that the Law on the Construction of Objects has been substantially improved in the content submitted. This is a law that will really enable more rational, efficient and cheaper administrative procedures that have caused a lot of dissatisfaction in investors. It is time for this law to be Europeanised, too, because the existing law has had overly unnecessary formal guards, which have not worked in real life or, above all, overheated life, depending primarily on the relationship between administrative authorities and citizens. We agree that the procedure for issuing an administrative authorisation is one-stage, and it is also very reasonable that consentors and deadlines have been provided for the issue of consent, which are linked to the complexity of the facility. However, I believe that it will be necessary to determine carefully and prudently how and in what way someone may be in the influential area of the facility and thus a co-consentor or party to the procedure, and who does not. I estimate that this will be one of the most common causes of the various judicial procedures for the abolition of building permits, which will have major consequences either for the municipalities or for the country in view of the envisaged solutions in the law. Claims for compensation may be very high and confidence in the authorities will be severely affected if more requests are made. I propose that the solutions, when the investor can begin to build, be re-examined, particularly due to subsequent, often unnecessary corrections to spatial acts or pressures on changes to spatial acts, with which the basis for legalisation would then be prepared in the subsequent procedure. I propose that you study at least paragraphs 71 and 72 of the Act, since it is likely that the applicant's wish is not only to increase the speed from the start of the procedure to the start of the construction procedure, but also to prevent damage and damages or unnecessary costs, both for the municipalities and for the country. The content of the law would necessarily need to be supplemented by provisions governing replacement construction. In practice so far, there have been a lot of derogations and abuses, since not only has the municipal contribution not been paid and this was actually the way to avoid it, but often the buildings were not built according to the project documentation and the permit issued, nor has the old facility been destroyed later. Usually the owners of this facility continued to use it either as an economic facility or as a business facility, and many such facilities are in decline and threaten the environment. These facilities should also be subject to intensive inspection and appropriate decisions. It was expected, however, that the applicant would have more money and, above all, trust in a successful local government and would entrust the municipalities with the issuance of building permits. It would normally be normal for municipalities to issue building permits for cases for which they have carried out or adopted spatial acts. Thus, this law is merely a continuation of the practice that wishes to prove in every way that the municipalities are incapacitated and therefore, in the pronunciations, rightly excluded from administrative procedures. I would point out that in some countries even mayors issue building permits. However, despite the fact that the State has so far conducted all administrative procedures and controls, we find that there is total chaos in the area of the use of space and interventions. And I'm sure that if the congregations did this, they wouldn't cut anything worse, probably the opposite. It is said that this area would be better controlled and even more regulated. I also do not think it makes sense for officials of administrative units to decide or assess the compatibility of projects with spatial acts, to impose restrictions and additions on applicants to decide on the speed and cost of procedures, as well as on the dynamics of economic development. And the municipalities are deprived of the possibility of having an impact on economic development. The proposal for a law also dramatically tightens inspection, which is likely to try to correct past errors. It is undeniable that the very control function over the management and use of space has been very poor. The inspection was not effective, since almost nowhere and never in time and effectively stopped unauthorised interventions in the room. Now, however, the law is extremely rigorous in dealing with this area, and perhaps the proposaler would like to quickly correct all delays, inconsistencies and misconduct, both for investors and for inspection bodies. The law provides an extremely strict provision allowing the inspection to take measures also for buildings built in the distant past, for example, 20 years and more. And an inspection may order the acquisition of a construction and utility permit, and may also give a demolition order. In short, there's a perfect conversion planned here. However, in order to complete the procedures for obtaining a building permit and administrative procedures, projects that are no longer or even gone are likely to require the production of pids or projects of works carried out. And on this side, the law brings in a lot of work and an excellent profit to design bureaus. However, concerns also arise in view of the effectiveness of the inspections, as it is not realistic to expect that the country will be able to establish a significantly larger, more qualified and, above all, a more effective inspection within a short period of time. If it fails, this law will be worthless, as it will not be possible to implement key definitions, especially control over use and intervention in the space. I also believe that it is necessary to adopt sub-legislative acts within a reasonable period of time. It would make sense to prescribe a deadline. However, it would also be advisable to present, at least those key sub-legislative acts, at the time before the third hearing. We will support the law in the parliamentary group, as well as the position of the working body, because we believe that they also bring significant improvements in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Does any other parliamentary group wish to present its views? I guess not. So I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I limit their performances to five minutes. Anybody want a word? He does. Please. Then you must be a little more careful, please. I asked if any of the Members would like a word. So you want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? So be it, this time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Youth Party is pleased to note that the proposal for a building law is finally ready for consideration and adoption in this National Assembly and that we will successfully implement the reforms of spatial and construction policy or legislation in this area in our country. We expect the law to succeed in abolishing the social planning system and replacing it with appropriate instruments for today, where we see as basic contractors the municipality, the country and we hope, in the near future, the province as well. It is therefore very important that we clearly define the powers and tasks between them in the law. With a more clearly defined role and the competence of the co-conspirators in the preparation and adoption of a spatial act, from which the law requires, prior to the preparation of the act, the laying down of the conditions for the planning of the envisaged spatial arrangements, as well as the consent to the spatial act, the procedures for the adoption of spatial acts will be substantially reduced in our opinion. In the Youth Party, we support the quality deregulation of administrative procedures in the area of construction, of course, while ensuring the security of construction and the protection of public interest. We expect that the law will largely relieve the administrative authorities and facilitate investor procedures, because these administrative authorities have been a blind intestine so far, which also gives us about 12,000 black buildings, because in most cases operators could not wait for the long waiting periods of procedures. And here from you, Mr Minister, we expect you to properly train the legal services of the administrative units so that these procedures will proceed smoothly. It is also necessary to clean up the problem of black construction in return, as such a good marriage will not be successful if things are not handled in return. And we also doubt that in the game "it's nice to be employed in the administrative unit" which is now being implemented, people choose here any of the employees of the administrative unit that works in the space. We also agree with the harmonisation of the law with the fundamental requirements of the European Union countries on the free movement of persons under which we will remove the condition of permanent residence for the provision of engineering services. We consider as extremely important the changes in that part of the law relating to project documentation for different types of facilities, in the area of the issue of administrative licences and in the area of works for which licences should not be required at all, namely for most simple objects and maintenance works. This will allow for the early commencement of construction immediately after the enforceable provision of the building permit, and will also allow the construction of simple facilities without permission, under conditions and execution, as was the case before 1990. We expect the proposer to take into account the professional public's comments and other qualitative and substantive comments that have been made so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. These were the views of the youth group. Now, as I say, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. No one has applied for this before, now she wants the word of a colleague of Shirtz; I limit your debate to five minutes. Then does anyone else want a word for her? I have to make sure that the National Assembly is concluded when it is decided. She's a colleague of Simsich's. Please come in, Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I will certainly support the conclusions proposed by the mother's working body, which was very precise, even so precisely, that it dealt with elevators in individual facilities. At the same time, I think it is important to listen to the third position, which states that the drafter of the law in the future should define more meaningfully the concepts that appear in the law in general provisions. If the working body or if the preparers thought what I understood, then it seems to me that this position should be taken seriously. Why? The proposed law shall be carried out by the construction of buildings with the term 'design' as defined in Article 4, by defining it as the production of appropriate technical documentation. Of course, I understand that laws are pragmatic, that laws are technical and that laws are, of course, limited to a very sober dictatorship. However, in this dictatorship, I must admit that the drafter of the law may be silenced, but he certainly pushes into the irrelevant whole creative aspect of the profession itself, which does not only cover and merely design in the way that is defined in Article 4. I believe that in this way it disqualifies to a large extent architectural design, urban planning, landscape management, the protection of natural and cultural heritage, in short, the whole act of creation. Of course why I'm putting it so much more emphasis on him right now, at this time, not in a moment. Because I think that in this way, by understanding the construction and regulating of space, we return to those 50 years ago, or even more, when the attitude that he took, if I recall correctly, to Joseph Vidmar, who has absolutely equalized the value of the profession of creative dimensions, such as the architect and him with engineering, with the construction and denial of all creation, the design of this activity. In short, I would certainly support the position that this important design of cultural residence and, of course, the creation and perception of space should be added to the law. The profession is already so and so highly devalued today, because it is conditioned by the under-regulated power of the market, but certainly by strength, I may say gravely, but certainly uninformed subscribers, whom we can no longer compare with those humanists who were present at the time of Jože Plečnik's work, or with those humanists in particular in the types of church circles that were capable of meaningful orders, such as the Slovenian space can still behave with today. In short, I stress that the protection of the profession, including within the framework of the Directives and of course within all those definitions that are known abroad and which make it possible for the foreign to behave with so much more valuable objects and with so many more interesting landscapes. In this case, of course, I also appeal to greater environmental protection. While it seems very reasonable to me that the proposaler is more rigorous in arranging public procurement and public procurement, this is, however, a way to find good solutions, especially for those contracts paid by the State or from public finances and which are then more professionally evaluated. But I don't know if we could do something comparable in other areas with such regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Comrade Shirtz. I give my word to my colleague Simsich. I'm asking if anyone else wants a word. [[They want to.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would also like to say that I will support the proposals made by my mother's working body. However, I would like to make a single point on this issue, i.e. the building law that I have encountered in my work so far. These are communication barriers. Article 16 and the Government's initiative to examine solutions to the construction of public buildings are mentioned in the position of the parent working body, in order to remove all communication barriers in this sense, as the law proposes lifts or any other solution only in facilities higher than three floors. Of course, we know that it is also difficult to reach the third floor, where communication is hampered in life. To this end, I propose a complementary position with my colleague Črnugljevo. That is to say that the government should consider not only paragraphs 49 and 139 in the preparation of the proposal, but also in the context of this to see if it is possible to find any solutions that Europe is looking for in its design position for all when it comes to removing communication barriers. In short, the proposal is that the government examine this and, if possible, incorporate this solution into the law for second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I see we have already started the debate on complementary positions. I give my word to my colleague, Auschwitz, after him mag. Visionary. Please. I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, I was not present on the Infrastructure Committee when it addressed this and also the previous law. That is why I did not ask any questions concerning the appeal proceedings. Also in the case of the previous law, this issue could be raised, as I believe that the appeal procedures, in particular the current legislation, have often crossed the framework to safeguard the legality of administrative procedures relating to building permits, location permits or other permits for interventions to the premises. These proceedings or those appeals are, of course, a constitutional right and also a right following the Administrative Procedure Act, but often abused. In practice, economic operators planning new economic investments, as well as infrastructure investors, or even housing, are faced with insurmountable obstacles when faced by otherwise eligible complainants who are complaining for entirely different reasons than they should. He can complain even out of speculative intentions, out of disdain, out of former grudges, and so forth. I therefore believe that this area should be treated with special care and care in these laws. Of course, I have no solution, I have not proposed any complementary position. I believe that enough of this will be my contribution to the debate on the magnetogram, which will provide the basis for the study of this area, because I think that, on the basis of both laws, we should end this current practice in some way, including the construction of the buildings. Either that unjustifiable complaints are sanctioned or that the costs in the proceedings must be borne by the complainants if they have lost their claim. This is also regulated in the case law or in the case law by the costs incurred by those who have lost. In short, I do not know, this matter will have to be carefully examined and, of course, in accordance with our Constitution, it will also have to be properly defined in one law and another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I myself have had quite a bit of experience in my work so far with overly complicated and, of course, also inefficient procedures in obtaining various building permits. It is true that in many respects it was due to outdated and inadequate building laws. And here I welcome the intention of the Ministry of Environment and Space to remove some obstacles and, of course, some senselessly, thereby making the way to authorisation shorter and more effective. I would point out, however, that not all sins lie solely in the legislation, that some are also in the bureaucracy of the Ministry of Environment and Space. And here I would ask the Minister to answer two questions in particular. The first question is: what has he done so far, or what will he do from now on, so that the appeal proceedings at the Ministry will not take place for an unreasonable period? According to the information I have under way, a complaint of a single licence or a solution to a single licence is made for two years and more. And we can only think that an economic operator wants to obtain a single business space permit, someone complains to him here, and, of course, for two years this person is "betched" about his activity, and believe me, I know an economist who would be interested after two years of this idea or investment still somehow, or this investment is practically lost to him. I think there is a lot to be done here, to speed up the resolution of appeals procedures and to the extent that these applications can be filtered so as not to be abused or to be deliberately delayed by the complainants. Here I would like to ask how the Ministry has dealt with this problem and how does this unacceptable long deadline for the resolution of complaints at the Ministry itself deal in particular? That's one thing I'd like to point out. Another thing is inspection supervision or effective inspection supervision. I myself was an inspector at the inspectorate for several years, where I also dealt with construction and urban inspectors, who were constantly complaining about their broken teeth or that they were toothless in the pursuit and, of course, also somehow in the prevention of these black buildings or unauthorised interventions. In particular, she caught sight of this powerlessness when they clearly found black construction, when they ordered the removal or rehabilitation of the situation and the owner, either because of such or other matters he did not do so, the matter remained the same as, the money for demolition on behalf of the State or that the State showed this power that what it decides could also do, never or very rarely happen. I therefore ask the Minister what is new or not to be done in this legislation, or what he intends to do in the second and third readings of this law, to be supplemented, upgraded or upgraded in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word before I give it to the minister? I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I have a question for you, regarding Article 137, which says: "The statute of limitations..." not to read everything, otherwise there are only two lines, "deprecated in two years". In view of the practice we have in our country, but not only in court, including in inspection services and everywhere else, I believe that this deadline is considerably, significantly too short and is likely to be set so that many cases will be obsolete and there will be no consequences or appropriate sanctions. Thank you very much. I recommend an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. The digger, the Minister for Environment and Space, you have the floor for answers to questions. Then we'll go to the vote, so I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe one last comment first. It's the matter of the offence law. The new bill on offences, which is currently under preparation, provides for a three-year statute of limitations. In theory, we could have arranged this differently in this law, and we would have said that, regardless of the provisions of the law of misdemeanours, there is a time limit for the statute of limitations of these offences, I don't know, three or four years; this is possible. As for the comments or more questions of Mr Viszak and Auschwitz, which in fact all touched on the effectiveness of inspection supervision and on the speed of dispute resolution, as well as on the ultimately nagging of individual parties in the process that impedes investors, many times, at least we have information like this, it is also quite common blackmail if you pay so much and so much, but I will not complain because people know that the resolution of complaints lasts a long time and then many prefer to pay rather than deal with neighbors. I would like to say the following about all of this. One is the problem with the current situation, the other is the solutions to the marriage. As far as the current situation is concerned - once before I had a question on this subject - we have introduced an overtime work on the administrative service, which solves complaints at the second level, because we have very few people there, but it is true that, even if we had the opportunity to hire some new people, it takes a long time for people to learn and become specialists to resolve such disputes, so it is necessary to count on the existing frame. In the plan we have a programme, not exactly Hercules, but - we call it Poseidon more as a joke - which is supposed to try to set a deadline until 2004 to resolve complaints for two months from the current little less than two years at the Office of Administration at the Ministry of Environment and Space. This law in this regard brings quite a bit of news. The first is this, and these are the answers, in fact, to the questions asked by Mr Auschwitz, that construction is possible after completion, not according to jurisdiction. This, of course, significantly shortens the waiting for individual investors to solve their case. The other thing that matters is that the law defines complaints from so-called so-called infrastructure and the environment committee, as well as the law enforcement agency, suggests that this provision should be deleted, that it interferes more with civil actions and the work of the court and that the administrative unit will, in fact, be very difficult to deal with or solve this matter and judge when and when it was not. The next thing that matters in this law, and I can tell you, even in the previous practice of last year, is that we have unified the forms in all administrative units. This law also provides for uniformity of forms. This is not irrelevant, for it puts all administrative units in the same order or rhythm of work and does not involve unnecessary issues. Otherwise, even for investors themselves, this was also a question of financial destimulation when it comes to black construction. In this case, criminal provisions are provided for how all those with black construction are, in some way, forced by financial burden to regulate or subject or legalise as soon as possible, and I, of course, believe that there will be significantly fewer pending decisions in inspections. If I turn briefly to the question or initiatives of other Members. Ms Simšič proposes a follow-up position. It's okay. We agree with him. At the same time, we have been thinking, and after all, the Infrastructure Committee is on its way, in its views, to arrange or prescribe elevators in lower public buildings, not only from the 3rd floor forward. We're gonna do this, so I'm gonna take this transition position. Mrs Shirca said that we should define the concepts more clearly and redesign architectural design. Yes, we have the intention, the Committee's focal points are coming to us to arrange an engineering and architectural chamber in this law, without it being separate from the law on the regulation of premises and the law on the construction of buildings. And in this sense, we will also make two kinds of chapters. One will be architectural and one will be design. So, of course, we will follow this suggestion. Mr Tanko mentioned the problem of replacement construction. We will settle it, after all, it is, I think that he or Member of the Zalokar Orazem, if I am not mistaken, the principles are already on this issue on the Infrastructure Committee and this suggestion is included in the focal points. As for the 71st and 72nd articles on compensation, I have already said, he found this problematic. The board's on its way to delete it. And there's probably no other way to follow that. As for Mr Mamić's comments, I can say that they are extremely useful. It is true, however, that quite a few of these comments concern, in fact, sub-laws. And we will be happy to take them into account and I will also ask Mr Mamič to deliver these written comments to us that, let's say, with regard to simple objects, China would be all ranges up to three meters, I agree, but this is really a matter of a sub-law, not a law. And your comment on the classification of objects, on low, high, industrial. It is necessary to clarify here that we are obliged to take over the European classification of buildings and engineering buildings, which is different from existing ones. But I will really ask your comments in writing, so that you can take them into account, because, at least what you said seemed extremely useful to me. I hope that in fact I have responded briefly or at least tried to respond to the dilemmas raised. Otherwise, unless you're satisfied with this then, we'll meet again in second reading with probably amendments. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u35	This was a very nice performance by the minister. My friend Kavčič took the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Respectable. I think that our common ambitions are linked to this law, which is justifiably large. Personally, I think it is highly advisable to monitor the consequences of laws and regulations in practice. I would like to warn you, I have recently had this conversation with a surveyor who warned me that, under the 2000 real estate registration law, there is such confusion in the Slovenian space that we have not yet had. I would therefore limit myself to this law and would like to express a few wishes or recommendations to the government. What we're going to want to see in this second reading in this law, and I have a feeling that there are a lot of Members here who support me in this desire, is that you compare us with some typical processes in the field of building laws. Comparably, this means that some process is ongoing today and that processes resulting from the new law are shorter, nicer, cheaper. These are, after all, the substantive objectives that we have set ourselves in our coalition, and these are the fundamental criteria by which we will also want to evaluate this law as it matures in the second and third readings. In particular, I would ask the proposer to pay further attention to Article 182 of the bill, which discusses the necessary co-operators. The list of these needed co-conspirators revolves around number 32, which does not indicate that they would introduce shorter, faster, simpler procedures into this law. Thus, we would ask that we re-examine what are the conditions under which we can ensure the rational, economical, orderly and citizen-friendly functioning of the area tried to regulate this law. I would ask, Minister, that you include these well-meaning recommendations and wishes in the basis for drafting the law for second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. My friend Kebrich signed up for the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! Maybe you didn't fully understand my question. I have pointed out that I believe that this limitation period of two years, given our circumstances, is far too short, but you have only implemented what possibilities exist for an expiry date. You chose, of course, the lowest. I propose a position, but please specify that this limitation period should be at least four years. I recommend an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like another word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u40	Well, maybe around this statute of limitations. This is a matter of the law on offences, and I propose that this discussion takes place when the law on offences is being examined, which will continue to be in Parliament this year, and the law has already been tabled. So I suggest you propose an extension there, because of me, even for four years, I don't mind, but I think it's right that it's settled there because it's a systemic offence law. That's it. But as for other things, I think it was agreed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Then we can go to the vote. Is there any other suggestion? [[No, no, ……]] Okay. I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I am putting to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which is that the proposal for a law on the construction of buildings at first reading is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law. I put this proposal to the vote. We vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for drafting a second reading bill. 47 present, 44 in favour, no one voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We have two complementary proposals that I am now opening the debate and then I propose a decision on them. First, we have a proposal from colleague Vebra and then a proposal from colleague Simšič. Does anyone want a word about these two complementary suggestions, the board's views? I propose to vote first on the proposal for a complementary position. Comrade Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would point out once again that in the Committee's views, there is a press error at the 26th indent, and the correct word is 'to examine the comments from the public presentation of opinions'. We wrote "appreciated" at the time. It's about studying.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u43	You've already warned me that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u44	But I wanted to warn you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u45	We'll take it into account in the conclusions. I am therefore putting to the vote an additional position on the bill tabled by my colleague Weber. You have him in front of you on the table. I suggest we vote on him. Please. I'm going to have to rediscover the outcome of the vote because he didn't get lucky for the first time. I ask for a little more attention, once again, to the vote on the proposal of the complementary position tabled by my colleague, Janko Weber. We are voting on this proposal. I'm asking for a meeting in the hall. We are voting on the proposal for a complementary position. 46 present. 42 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. A colleague of Simšič's also put forward a complementary position on which we will vote. You've got it on your hands. We're voting. I'm asking for a meeting in the hall. We are voting on the complementary position of colleague Simšičeva. 47 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the complementary position has been adopted. We vote on the proposed positions as a whole. Please speak of them. Fifty present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand they've been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am participating in the meeting with the Minister and his co-workers. However, I would like to invite representatives of the government to participate in the 9th item of the agenda to come to the Chamber, which is at the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Judicial Service Act. Are you ready for the opening statement? Mr Secretary of State, you have the floor to present the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Law on Judicial Service was adopted in 1994 and has been in force since 1995. This time is long enough for the law to show all its good aspects and even some bad ones. There have been enough proposals and initiatives to improve it. The novel, quite extensive, was first prepared in 2000 and then withdrawn because the applicant wanted to achieve the highest possible degree of consensus within the profession, in particular with the authorities of the judiciary. Thus, it now proposes a law which, in this sense, is adequately prepared in the main work and in the opinion of the proposer in the essential provisions and also has the support of the judicial branch of authority whose functioning governs. All I want to do is point out the two essential purposes of marriage. The first is mobility, Slovenia has small courts compared to other countries, even those which have a similar organisation of the judiciary after delivery. Any absence of one or two judges, any temporary increase in membership, may cause difficulties in the work of the courts. That's because our judges are appointed to a certain court. The system, as is now the case with the redistribution of judges, therefore the proposaler wishes to give the possibility of greater mobility of judges, both in cases where we would agree to do so, as well as in cases where it is necessary to achieve it without their consent. Of course, with all the necessary restrictions and remedies, including the protection from the authorities of the judicial branch, both before the judicial council and in the final stage of the administrative dispute. Another area that has been given special attention is the issue of supervision of the work of the judge and the exercise of his responsibility. I would like to say that, in doing so, the applicant clearly and clearly distinguishes between the independence of the judge relating to the trial and the decision in the proceedings against the performance of his other duties. This means the timely, appropriate, conscientious service of the judicial service. This means decent and appropriate treatment of individuals, public authorities and legal persons. This means achieving the expected results of the work. This means compliance with the rules applicable to the work of the courts. This means compliance with prohibitions, incompatible activities. This means respect by law and by the order of the particular order of action. This means compliance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the enforcement of service obligations. This means taking into account mentoring duties and a number of others which form an integral part of the duty of judges, such as being an integral part of the duty of each other to enter into a work relationship or service relationship with the State. In this respect, we increase the powers of the Presidents of the Courts, within the framework of the judicial administration, through the Institute of Official Control, for which we also designate the initiators and the proposers outside the judiciary, while the decision alone remains with the State authority of the judiciary. In accordance with that guidance, we are also supplementing the disciplinary procedure which allows for the exercise of the judge's responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, Mr. Jenull. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Internal Policy. Would the chairman of the committee, Comrade Lavrinc want a word? [[He does.]] Comrade Lavrinc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In addition to what the Secretary of State has said, he would add the following, otherwise it remains in the report. In addition to the applicant, as always, the Judicial Council, the President or the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the representatives of the Judicial Society and, exceptionally this time, the representative of the Union of Workers of State and Social Authorities also participated in the debate. The introductory remarks should be made to what the secretariat has pointed out. The representative of the secretariat drew attention to some questions that it would be useful to study further. These are questions of the competence of the Minister responsible for justice, which are determined in matters of judicial administration under the Law on Courts, i.e. whether such powers are involved here, i.e. the powers of such a nature that the Minister may or may not do so. A similar question was also raised by representatives of the Judicial Council and also by some members of the Committee. Then, in my view, it is necessary to draw attention to the consideration of supplementing the provisions of Article 30 of the Act, the different amounts of the supplement, in view of the expected or exceeded expected volume of work. He pointed to another question from a systemic point of view, however, whether it was appropriate to regulate the matter in this law differently than was regulated by the law on pension and disability insurance. I also must not let go of the warning that there is a sense of subjugation in the disciplinary process. This was submitted by the secretariat, and then the representatives of the Judicial Council somehow "onblock" went against the bill in its entirety, for various reasons described here, but received criticism and I must say that the general opinion was different. However, the questions that the proposer will have to consider before proposing a law for a second reading are, above all, how it is possible to assign individuals to a constitutional court and how it is possible for an official to simply be transferred to court. I would also like to say that, in the debate that followed, the Members almost fully supported, not only did they fully support the law, the amendment of the law, including the objectives that this law wants to achieve, but they did not agree with the reduction of the age limit. In particular, they supported the proposal of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs that the proposed legislative text should be aligned with the proposal of the Law on the Public Sector Wage System. In fact, as is commonly known, this law is in the second reading in the National Assembly, and it would in some ways be embarrassing for the same area or issue to be dealt with differently in two different laws. The general assessment was also that this possibility of redistributing the judge without his permission should be extended, not only for three months, but also by including, of course, a larger area in order to make it possible in some way to remedy the problem that Slovenia has with the smallness of our courts and with the inability to redistribute judges from different locations. In some ways, however, the idea was rejected in order to preclassify the writings. In fact, the assessment was that what we were doing should not be done in such a way as to increase the costs for citizens, in short, to suggest that they should then, for example, appear not in one court, but in another. So that, I think, would be all that had to be highlighted in particular. Otherwise, in the proposals of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted other positions which are very precise. I am confident that the second reading candidate will be able to draft the law by following these positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Internal Policy Committee, colleague Lavrinz. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] So I give the floor first to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. I have a written application. First, I will give the floor to my colleague Majda Zupan, who will present her position on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. It will also be followed by other representatives of the groups of Members. First she'll get the word of her colleague Majnik, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear government officials! A respected choir! The judicial backlog was largely those who were in favour of amending the Law on Judicial Service last year. Short-term measures were needed, and the Hercules project was given a legal basis. It is true that Hercules is only one of the projects to reduce judicial backlogs, but we can see that he is not as successful as we were promised when he was introduced. The statistics recently presented to us by the Justice Minister show that backlogs have been reduced by 8% in the District Courts. From 176,000 pending cases in 2000 to 162,000 in 2001, which according to the Minister of Justice is due to the greater efficiency of first-degree judges. In the higher courts, the proportion of outstanding cases increased by 16%. It's not as much or as much as you'd like. Judicial backlogs are also one of the reasons for the current amendment of the Law on Judicial Service. In ten years, the backlog in the courts increased from 200,000 to 530,000. The increase index amounts to 243, and the court performance decreased and reached the lowest level in 1995. However, since 1998, the number of cases resolved has been increasing, but the issue of resolution of judicial backlogs is still very pressing. The European Union report in 2001 points to this problem and the local public is extremely dissatisfied about it. While the state of affairs is being remedied in various areas, the applicant sees the problem in particular in the under-mobility of judges within the judiciary because there are different burdens on the courts and thus the different status of backlogs, the under-service supervision of judges, the inadequate regulation of disciplinary proceedings and the under-reward of judges for additional work. In the New Slovenia Group, we support all efforts to ensure that the backlogs are reduced as soon as possible and significantly, since in particular the general public is extremely critical. The affected citizens and citizens are indignant and feel that we do not have the rule of law as we would like because they cannot reach their right within a reasonable time. Allow me to raise some issues with regard to the proposal for a law. The debate on the parental committee showed some differences between the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government. Although it must be acknowledged that the interest of the judges has also been shown for more stringent evaluation criteria, in particular in order to increase public confidence in the work of the judges. It is important that the applicant wishes, inter alia, to balance the judicial right guaranteed with judicial duties, of course, by respecting the principle of independence of the judiciary. In contrast to the position of a high-priority judge in society, he would like to place even more emphasis on the duty of a judge to carry out his mission in accordance with the highest expectations, including the granting of a permanent mandate. The novela reduces the age limit for election to judicial office from 30 to 28 years. The government argues that many good graduates of the Faculty of Law can come in line for judicial training and therefore quickly pass the judicial examination after the traineeship. In particular, young lawyers are supposed to be employed in the economy or in the administration because they do not want to wait until the age of 30 when it is possible to run for judges. However, in our parliamentary group, we do not think it is wise to lower the age limit, since a lack of life experience and a certain confidence that judges can make a sovereign decision will help to ensure the quality of the judge's work. It is true, however, that access to a judicial examination is already difficult, since it is possible to conduct a judicial internship, which is a condition for the performance of the examination, only after the application in a higher court. Higher courts, which are four in Slovenia, for example, accept in Ljubljana 50 candidates a year, slightly less than 30. It would be better to increase the number of judges. While the government is already preparing a proposal for amendments to the law on legal examination, we will see what will emerge from this. In view of the large number of judicial backlogs that continue to appear as an obstacle to Slovenia's entry into the European Union, the following is also incomprehensible. The proposal for amendments and additions as an additional condition for a judicial seat in the District Court provides that the candidate must have three years of experience in legal proceedings; the so-called legal works so far have not been a condition following a legal examination. This makes it difficult or even impossible for a lawyer to move from atypical legal areas of work to justice. The Institute of Official Supervisory of Judges is expected to strengthen and thus provide citizens with more effective justice. And in doing so, we were able to hear sharp indications that he was trying to oversee the judiciary. More. The Council of Justice and the judiciary consider this novel to interfere with the judiciary as an independent and independent branch of power. The fact is, judges are now making their own decisions. For this reason, too many authorities are gathered by the hands of one branch of power. Following a new act of official review, it is intended to give the President of the Court the right and duty to also give certain measures to the judge, in particular in the sense of a reminder and a warning in accordance with the disciplinary procedure. The judiciary, however, reminds the Minister's exclusive competence to exercise control whenever it wishes, on its own initiative, because of his political interest. We can hope that a suitable solution will be found in this regard during the course of the procedure in the National Assembly. The fact is, there is also a need for adequate supervision in this area. But we believe that control does not smell of anyone, nor does it smell of justice. The mobility of judges in our establishment is a valid principle, immobility. Is the introduction of so-called mobile judges within the same judicial district and with a time limit of six years sufficient? In order to make flexibility more flexible, the borders would also extend to a higher court area. Or perhaps even make it possible for the files to be assigned to the courts. Our New Slovenia Group advocates as much transition as possible, either from the state administration, from the economy to the judicial service and not only from the judicial service to the constitutional or higher court. Transitions and ways need to be carefully identified and developed, as it is only in this way that an effective and qualitative transfer of experience and knowledge can be made. The proposal also binds amendments to the law to remedy judicial backlogs with wider possibilities of awarding the judge's additional work, otherwise within the means provided, and otherwise considers that the salaries would not change to the judges. However, provisions on voluntary pension insurance are added which are considered necessary in view of the maintenance of the status achieved and the degree of independence of the judges. Is such a benefit fair to other insurers? This is the right to an old-age pension without reduction in special cases where the judge fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 55 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. With regard to judges' salaries, however, the opinion is that in the draft law on the public sector wage system, their work is highly undervalued, as their basic salaries are on average 150,000 and 200,000 tolars lower than the comparable salaries of lawyers employed in the executive or legislative authorities. They also consider that the comparability of physicians and schoolchildren is not appropriate, since only judges are subject to an explicit ban on working outside their working hours. Otherwise, we can see that the number of judges has increased, and wages have also increased, to those working in the field of reducing judicial backlogs. However, doing so has not grown enviablely. Practice has shown that salary increases are not always productive. It would be time for the area of judicial service to be resolved in such a way that citizens and citizens have greater confidence in the judicial system and to resolve matters within a reasonable time. Besides, there are reserves in court, and I'm the justice minister. First of all, the data collected on how many cases constitute legal backlogs according to the court order, some over 60,000 of them, indicate that something has just begun to move. On average, the time it would take for individual courts to solve all outstanding cases if only these and no others, as calculated by the Ministry, were still too long, on average for 15 months. However, it is particularly worrying in some courts that have reached an infamous record, in which it would be sufficient to abolish only for three years. By what time will we test the patience of citizens and citizens? We believe that changes to the law are needed, but those that will actually bring greater improvements and not just attempts and promises. We therefore support all the comments that have been made and would contribute to a better resolution of this issue. We believe that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to my colleague Majnik. She will present the views of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia and will be given the floor of colleague Petan to present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Please, Comrade Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u52	Mr President, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service with Opinions adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy. In particular, we would like to highlight the problem of judicial backlogs, which need to be reduced. With the Hercules programme adopted last year, the desired results have probably not been achieved, so we are taking and supporting the solutions offered by this amendment to the law. It is essential to ensure greater mobility of judges by reducing judicial backlogs and other reasons, for example in small courts, as a result of illness or other absences. This extends the possibility of assigning judges to courts where the greatest burdens or backlogs are also without an increase in employment. Given that we have almost the highest number of judges per population, we can conclude that we have, above all, organizational shortcomings. We therefore propose that, in order to ensure greater mobility of judges, there should be a greater possibility of short-term allocations without consensus, raising the limit of three months, since it is not possible to bring about more demanding justice at this time. We believe that mobility is more important than the principle of immobility, as it does not constitute a more important guarantee for the independence and quality of the judge's work due to the independence of the judiciary and the sustainability of the mandate. But the ideas offered on the committee that we should assign writings to other courts are not supported. The novelty is without prejudice to the principle of the sustainability of the judicial function, but when entering the judicial function it reduces the age limit for election to 28 years. It is true that there is no provision in the Constitutions of European countries concerning the indication of the age limit for election to judicial office, but it is also true that candidates for judges in European and Anglo-Saxon countries are much older and more experienced. We therefore propose that the conditions for election be classified as a condition of the work experience that the candidate should obtain either as a judicial expert or in other fields. Only in this way will we ensure sufficient competence, experience and wisdom to carry out the judicial function of exercising judicial authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much, colleague Majnik. Comrade Petan, you have the floor to present the views of the Group of Members of the Socialist Party. After you, he will be given the floor of his colleague Potræ to present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that such changes to the law and additions are necessary and necessary. In this area, we are in a state that requires rapid action, especially for two reasons. The first reason is the large backlog that characterises the judiciary and no longer affords protection of human rights, as also defined by the Constitution and the real deadlines or reasonable deadlines for proceedings in courts which are substantially exceeded. And another reason is the adoption of a set of legislation for the public sector and there is a need for harmonisation from this point of view. This is where the wages in the public sector are primarily meant. In the Social Democratic Party, however, we do not support the reduction of the age for obtaining a permanent judicial or permanent judicial mandate. We believe that the achievement of this status also requires experience, and the argument that there are no candidates, mentioned were candidates on the committee, especially for the criminal area in the district courts - the lower age limit will not solve, but probably the conditions of work, particularly in the district courts. Here, it is likely that the profession will have to examine the conditions of work itself and the boundaries within the profession, what cases of difficulty are being dealt with by a court. This is mainly a boundary between county and district. After all this, one wonders whether the District Courts really solve only the easiest cases and all that is a little bit more difficult, then it comes at the expense of the District Court and therefore there is no interest. We are fully convinced that feminisation itself cannot be blamed for the absence of candidates for district courts, especially for criminal matters, in the criminal area. It is true, however, that if such feminization is to be warned that it may also be a cause of irregularities or anomalies, then this is primarily the problem of our school system. And perhaps something will have to be said about it, especially in the school work of our executive branch. Of course, the consequences are evident in the judiciary. We are also convinced that the opinion given by the Council of Justice that the amendment of this law is an intervention in the judiciary as an independent branch does not, in our opinion, hold. It is perfectly clear to all that the judiciary must remain completely independent of professional decisions. There's probably every word out of place and it's a waste of time if we start any discussion about it. However, as regards the Institute of Control, the evaluation of the field of judicial effectiveness, external authorities should also be given the possibility of monitoring and evaluation. We are convinced that no one likes control, neither do we, so judges say no, but it is not good if we evaluate ourselves. We know that if we judge ourselves, we are always the best. We already have too much experience in the past, and it probably doesn't make sense to lose words about it either. Therefore, an external opinion must also be given outside the profession. However, such external control is justified, and I can say, compulsory, even because it is financed from public finances. Those who finance the job must also have a right, and they are also obliged to assess what is happening with the use of this money. Once again, I would like to point out that it is clear that professional decisions must be independent in the judiciary. I am simply stressing this once again so that no one could possibly misinterpret what I have said. We also support measures for greater mobility in the Social Democratic Party, and we believe that the area of hosting judges or temporary relocations should be extended to a wider area, at least to a higher court area. In the Social Democratic Party, we support all the conclusions and views of the Labour Committee and we believe that it is a suitable basis for the continuation of the procedure and, of course, we are confident that the content will need to be further finalized and completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Comrade Petan. My colleague, Potrč, will present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. I'm asking, does any of the other members of the group want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Service, as well as the proposals for positions prepared by the mother's working body, in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Our judiciary, as the third branch of government, has been faced with a serious issue of timely decision-making in recent years, with still large backlogs, although much effort has been made to reduce backlogs and certain results, and this is also linked to the growing confidence of citizens and citizens in justice, as timely resolution of their claims before the courts is one of the foundations of the rule of law. In this regard, the government has been promising us and predicting that, even through major amendments to the Judicial Service Act, it will try to eliminate certain solutions or inconsistencies that may have contributed in part to such a state. The proposals that are ready, according to our assessment, are going this way. They go primarily in this direction where they define possible relocations more clearly; they go in this direction where they increase control over work and also in clearer provisions related to disciplinary sanctions. Speaking of the last disciplinary sanctions, let me point out that we are confident of this - and also the proposals for solutions in the law are such - that disciplinary sanctions are not linked to substantive decisions but are linked to the fulfilment of work duties and to the possible abuse of the legality or powers of judges. This issue, however, since judges are people like everyone else who carries out their duties, has not been sufficiently regulated so far and has also experienced the greatest criticism and dissatisfaction in the public. Therefore, there were also views that the permanent term of judges and the like should be abolished. We think it is better through clear solutions in the Judicial Service Act to resolve these issues, not in any other way. And the last. There is no way to settle this in this law. Some feel that with longer experience, some feel that by reducing or increasing the age of judges. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the Group of Members of the United Nations, we believe that a constitutional debate that comes to mind might also allow for the resolution of one of the issues of a permanent term of office, that is, a certain period of prior judicial service as a condition for a judge to be appointed for a permanent term of office. We believe that if we collect the necessary two-thirds majority for such a solution, regardless of whether we would also change the system of appointment of judges themselves, in order to resolve the issue of the relative lack of human resources that exists with us, and the issue of ensuring greater quality and responsibility in the choice, both for the professional and the personal and moral qualities that the judge, when elected for a permanent term, must have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Levič will present the views of the Youth Party's Group of Members. I think this will conclude the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members and I will give the floor to the Members and Members. Please, Comrade Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The problem of judicial backlogs and the overload of courts has been a very pressing problem for several years and a change in the legislation that we have already done, and the law before us will certainly help to ensure that the situation in this area is regulated. Last year, with amendments to the Judicial Service Act, better known by the name of the Hercules project, we took an important step towards the abolition of the judicial arrears. As we have already heard on the Committee, this project has proved to be very effective. In our parliamentary group, we agree, in principle, with the proposal for a law that we have before us. It is also commendable that the Government, as a bill-maker, has also attracted representatives of the judiciary in the drafting of the law, which has certainly helped to improve the law and to reduce the number of comments made by the judiciary. In the SMS Group, we support greater mobility of judges. We also support the possibility of short-term allocation of a judge to another court without his consent. We believe that greater mobility of judges is a better option than the possibility of redistribution of files. We also agree with the idea presented on the Committee by the President of the Supreme Court that more areas should be created than areas of district courts in which judges could be redeployed or mobile. However, points where the government as a bill-maker and judges differs are the increase in the Ministry's competence to assess and supervise the work of the judges In the amendment of the law there are some provisions which have been delegated to the Minister or to the Ministry of Justice by the Council of Justice so far. Some non-systemic provisions are also referred to by the secretariat for legislation. The independence and independence of the judiciary is ensured in the Constitution and the increased powers of the Ministry of Justice's control over the judge; the work of the judge may be questionable. Therefore, we believe that these points of dispute will need to be considered even more thoroughly in the preparation of the law for second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much too, Comrade Levich. We have thus exhausted the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since there are no written reports, I'm limiting everything from now on to five minutes. Am I correct in saying that there is no interest in discussion? Then I'll close the debate. We are therefore moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. My guess is we're at the edge of the conundrum. We will now decide on the first decision of the parent working body, which states that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial service in the first reading is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law. This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. Anybody want to talk about him? As I understand it, all the groups that put forward their views supported the proposal, so I understand that there are no different opinions. While I think we are on the verge of a conclusion, I will certainly put this proposal to the vote now and determine whether it enjoys the necessary support or not. I therefore propose that the proposal for a law at first reading be a suitable basis for a vote. Let's vote! I ask for your attention in the Chamber and invite you to vote on this motion for a decision! We'll wait a minute, invite our colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. It must have come as a surprise that this discussion was so brief. This means that marriage is good and that the mother’s working body has done its job well. Although we are now almost in conclusion, since, in spite of the great gathering of non-vote, we need only a few reserves, and then I will put a decision to the vote. I suggest we wait another half minute rather than give you ten minutes off. Okay, there's 50 of us in the hall. I therefore propose that we vote on the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Service in the first reading is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law. We're voting. I ask for your attention, we vote on the proposal for a decision. There are enough of us in the hall, please vote. I'm gonna ask for your attention one more time. I am re-voting the motion for a decision. Please vote. 47 in attendance, 45 in, one in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that we have accepted the proposal. We are moving on to the debate on the position of the parent working body. Anybody want a word about them? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we will also vote on them. I invite colleagues and colleagues not to leave the hall, to remain in it and to vote. We are voting on the positions of the parent working body. Please vote. Look, I can see from here that some of the people who were immersed in reading the material weren't paying attention to the vote, but more than twice I ask for attention, I can't do it, it would be rude. So now I'm going to ask you again to pay attention. We will vote on the positions prepared by the working body. Please vote. Please vote, there's 50 of us in the hall. 47 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have adopted and concluded this item on the agenda. I thank the representatives of the government for participating in this meeting. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTHFULNESS OF ANIMALS AND PRODUCTS AND PRODUCTS THAT COME INTO THE CONTRACTION WITH ANIMALS. I am informed here that the government has today adopted the amendment, that you do not yet have it on the bench and that there is therefore no conditions for us to move on to this agenda item. The 11th item is not yet ready, this is a proposal for a postal service law. That way we can move on to ratifications. This usually requires some conditioning, and also, of course, the participation of government representatives, I will wait a minute, during which time I have asked both government representatives and MPs to come to the National Assembly. But in this time of day, I'd like to ask your attention. First, we discussed with the Chairman of the Finance Committee when the bill currently being read in the National Assembly would be put to a vote after the decision had been suspended. I suggest we do this at 2:00 and 30 minutes. They would then be dealt with by the 4th item of the agenda, these are inland waters. I would like to inform you that, as President of the Constitutional Commission, I have received a proposal from five parliamentary groups, both of the opposition and of the coalition types, that today's meeting of the Constitutional Commission at its 5th session would not be due to the very busy schedule of Members participating in the work of the Constitutional Commission, therefore to the overlap of obligations. I have consulted with the Vice-President, Comrade Dr Tsukati, and we agree to adopt this proposal. I am therefore informing the members of the Constitutional Commission, as well as the representatives of the Government, who would participate in the positions, that we are therefore adjourning the meeting and that the members of the Constitutional Commission will be informed when it is expected to be announced after the end of this meeting of the State Assembly in the first days when this is possible. Are government representatives already present for ratification? Does anyone object to us starting with the consideration of ratifications? Good. Then I suggest we move on to 12. AT THE TIME OF THE DAY, government representatives are on their way to give me a signal from the lobby of the National Assembly. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes, with an additional protocol. The government will be in the hall any minute. Does any of the Members of Parliament request that the government's opinion on this bill be heard? If not, then I ask, does the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Policy want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members who do not wish to speak. Therefore, since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure, conclude that we will only vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. This proposal for a decision of a procedural nature will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. I therefore put this motion of a procedural nature to the vote. Please vote on the proposal of a procedural nature. I'm asking for your attention in the hall! There's a lot more of us in the hall. I would ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to inform Members and Members that we are in the middle of a decision on the proposal for a law on the ratification of international treaties. Meanwhile, we were joined by representatives of the government. I welcome them in our midst. I think there's enough of us in the National Assembly right now in the big hall to make decisions. I will therefore put the motion of a procedural nature to vote only on the bill as a whole again. Let's vote! There's 50 of us in the hall. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on a proposal of a procedural nature. Once again, they propose to colleagues who have not voted this time; I will put this proposal to the vote again. If we don't need a majority, I'll order a 10-minute recess. I also ask for collegiality in the hall that we be gathered. We are voting on a proposal of a procedural nature. Please! Otherwise, I'll set a 10-minute break. Ten minutes' rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u60	Please take your seats slowly. May I have your attention and attention in the hall? We have decided for the third time on a procedural proposal to conclude, in accordance with Rule 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we will only vote on the proposal for a full ratification law. I put this proposal to the vote. We are voting on a procedural proposal. 52 present, 50 in, one in. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. This way we can move on to a decision on the proposed law as a whole. We're voting. 52 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the National Assembly has passed the law on ratification. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Military Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. Does the government want a word about this law? [[No, no, ……]] The law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I see the representative doesn't want to present his views. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[Neither do I.]] I ask if they want the word of the Group of Members. [[No, no, ……]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[Neither do I.]] We will first vote on the procedural proposal to vote in full on the draft law. We are voting on this proposal. We are in the middle of voting on the proposal to vote in full on the bill. 49 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. This way we can move on to a decision on the proposal of the law as a whole. I'm putting him to the vote. We are voting on the bill as a whole. 50 present, 46 for, one up. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on air traffic. He wants the word "governance"? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the rapporteur want to speak to the Foreign Policy Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] They want the word of the parliamentary group? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[Nobody.]] First, we are voting on a proposal of a procedural nature. We are voting on a proposal of a procedural nature that we will vote in full on the law. 47 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. Now we can vote on the bill as a whole. Please! He's out of his mind again. I will put the bill to the vote again. I ask that we vote on the bill as a whole. Please vote. Is there any particular reason why someone does not want to participate in the vote? Please, tell me. I will put the proposal to the vote again. This is a proposal for us to adopt the law in its entirety. Please vote. 49 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the National Assembly has fully adopted the law and has thus concluded this item of the agenda, so we can move on to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on air traffic. He wants the government that put the proposal in motion, a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? Secretariat? The MPs and the MPs? [[Nobody.]] First, I will put to the vote a proposal of a procedural nature that we will vote on the bill in full. Let's vote! Attention, please! Let's vote on the motion of procedural nature! 48 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are now voting on the bill as a whole. Let's vote! May I have your attention, please? Let's vote on the bill as a whole! 47 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on air transport. Would any of the qualified proponents or discussers like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we will vote first on the procedural proposal. Let's vote! Let's vote on the motion! 48 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] We can now vote on the bill as a whole. Please! Let's vote on the bill as a whole! Attending 48, 47 for, no one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted that. We'll do our last ratification before recess. This is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Turkey on the avoidance of double taxation in connection with income tax, with the Protocol. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? I guess not. I am putting to the vote first a proposal of a procedural nature. Please vote. 49 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] We can now vote on the bill as a whole. This will also be the last vote in the morning's work, and then I will tell you how the agenda will proceed this afternoon. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. 48 present, 47 for and no one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] With this we have exhausted this package of ratifications. Since I had previously informed the National Assembly that at 2400 hours and 30 minutes we would continue with the interrupted point on the adoption of the Finance Act and then proceed on schedule to 4th, 10th and 21st. I don't think it makes sense to open a point now 10 minutes before 1:00. I hereby inform the National Assembly that we will resume at 2 p.m. and 30 minutes with the interrupted 3rd item of the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u61	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! We continue with the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused or further excused for the continuation of the 14th session of 21.3.2002 Milan Kopushar from 16:00 to 17:00. Since we're going to be present, I'm asking you to cooperate. We're detecting a presence. I think there's a lot more of us in the hall, so please - over 50 of us. Next time, we'll find out where we are, so please, I'm asking for your attention again. We're picking up the presence, another time. There are 42 present, according to the information, there are a significant number of us in the hall. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, it is indeed my task, of course, to hold a meeting in the sense that we are trying to get through the points before us. It is the duty of all of us to decide by pressing the "yes" or "against" button, otherwise it is to determine the presence of each other, the third vote, as it was yesterday, unsuccessful, and the Rules of Procedure say that we are adjourning the session for ten minutes. Personally, I would ask you to do your job properly, with me, your business. That's why I'm going to announce the third time we'll be there in ten minutes, at 2.49 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u62	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Since we're about to be present for the third time, I'd like to ask you to take your seats. We're detecting a presence. Thank you very much. Allow me, Sir, to meet you at 2.50 p.m. in room 217. Please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u63	Your Honor! As agreed, at 3 p.m. we continue our work. Again, for the first time, we find a presence that shows whether we can make a valid decision on how to proceed. We're picking up the presence! There are 54 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Procedural proposal. Mr Pucko, we have not yet moved on to this, as has been foretold, to the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on changes and additions to the law on public finances. [[...]] This point was interrupted in the stage of the general debate on the amendments tabled in Article 10. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The agenda item was suspended yesterday for the purpose of trying to find possible better solutions to individual amendments to Article 10 and, in this context, first the group of Members which tabled the amendment to Articles 10 and 17 of the Act withdraws these two amendments. At the same time, we have tabled an amendment that should adequately address this issue under Article 10 and the amendment to Article 17 has not had to be specifically replaced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. For better transparency. Your Honor! Allow me, so we have in front of us in the review of the amendments on the letters 4, 5, 6, 7 amendments to Article 10. Then we have, in addition to these amendments, of course by noting that the amendment under order number 3 was withdrawn after the communication of Mr Puck, the first-signed Mr Puck, and therefore the amendment to the amendment of which the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group was irrelevant. In particular, we have amendments to the 10th Article, of which the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia and the New Slovenia parliamentary group is the candidate. Then the same motioners tabled the amendment you received today on the bench to Article 10. On this amendment, the three MPs, with the first-signed Leo Kremjar, tabled an amendment to the amendment. To make it clear what we're going to decide. If there is no further discussion, we first vote on the amendment of the two parliamentary groups, namely the Socialist Party of Slovenia and the New Slovenia Group of Members. This amendment is not in the review. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u66	I would only explain my voice by refreshing a little on what was said yesterday. This is because we believe that the process of selling state property is also in the subsidiaries that are in the majority - that is, if the mother is in majority state ownership, also the subject of these procedures. We estimate that it is a matter of state property and that it is the responsibility of the State to deal with or dispose of this property. And we can't separate that. In particular, I have this opinion because of the very vague, mixed responses of the government to this issue or which have not convinced us that this is formally controversial. And, of course, they did not convince us that this could in any way have a substantive impact on the business policy of companies in the majority ownership of the country. For this reason, of course, I will support this amendment, because I stand by and also from the party to this amendment advocate a transparent and fair sale of state property, which is certainly the guarantee of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the two parliamentary groups. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It was 21 votes against 28. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 28.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We will now decide on the amendment, which is under order number 1 in the review, with a footnote, if adopted, the amendment of the committee under item 2 of the review is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 34. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Therefore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. From the review we are moving on to a decision first on the amendment to the amendment of the Group of Members with the first signed Cyril Puck. We are now deciding on an amendment to the amendment, which is proposed by Ambassador Leo Kremjar. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the Group of Members. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Back to the amendment review, we decide on the amendment under order number 4. We're voting. Members of Parliament and 55 Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 5. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number six. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number 7. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 8. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under nine. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number 10. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also deciding on the last amendment under order 11. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 10 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment for a new Article 10a. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new article have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 11. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47 to 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 12 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new Article 12a. Under 1 there is an amendment to the amendment of the government, whose proposer is the committee, and under order number 2 there is an amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment to the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new article have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 13 and Article 13 as a whole. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 15 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. I ask for a little attention because we will move from the review to the amendment you received to the bench, namely the amendment to the new article 16a, which is proposed by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members. Your amendment is on the bench. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u68	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Right, you warned me that then the coalition representatives would know how to change the key properly. See, the essence of the amendment is that we believe in the Social Democratic Party that the procedures for the sale of state property are one of the very important and key procedures defined in the Public Finance Act with this amendment. We are therefore also of the opinion that non-compliance with these procedures, or a lack of respect for these articles that we have adopted, or conduct contrary to these articles, should be included in the criminal provisions of the law among serious infringements, serious infringements. Therefore, we propose the addition of Article 107 of the law on criminal sanctions, namely that a direct or indirect user, says the budgetary user, is at risk of being punished if the sale or surrender of state or municipal financial and real property is in breach of the provisions of this Act. I think that should be included. This is said to be not only a provision but also a sanction for non-compliance with those provisions. This is just a minimum safeguard and a preventive action, so that there is no breach of the sale process of state and municipal real and financial assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Mag. Vizjak, let me just say that your note that I mentioned the amendment's proposal, which I do absolutely every time that Members know exactly where we are, was indeed incorrect. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 48 votes against 7. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Government's amendment for a new Article 16a, which is set out in the review on page 12. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The vote has not been successfully carried out. There's enough of you in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention. For the second time, we are voting on the government's amendment for a new Article 16th. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new article have been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 17 and the two amendments. Since the amendment under order number 3 Mr Pucko withdrew on behalf of the Group of Members, I am putting an amendment under number 1 into the debate, this is an amendment to the amendment of the Government of which the Committee is proposing, and an amendment under number 2 of which the Government is proposing. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes against one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 35 votes against one. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the last amendment and on Article 19; the amendment's proposer is the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It's 33 votes against no one. [[The vote was 33.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles have been adopted. We're moving on to the title debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 15. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that in the second reading of the draft law, amendments have been adopted to a large number of articles. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the whole bill in a proposal. Since no, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendments may undermine mutual compliance with the provisions of the law? Mrs. Ogrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Well, that's a very quick assessment. I believe that there is no inconsistentity, as has been the amendments adopted so far. However, I must say that there were still certain amendments to be expected in the third reading, in particular in view of the Secretariat's warnings regarding Article 80th, to which the secretariat has often warned. It is a matter of forming an annual sales programme. But please, as the motioner has decided, and as the amendments have been adopted, we have no comments now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. However, I would like to make a decision about a law that would have no doubt. I therefore ask whether the representative of the secretariat wants a recess to be reviewed, whether it is her assessment that there is mutual non-compliance with the provisions of the law. I think it's important for all of us before we go to a decision on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u72	As I said, as the amendments in the second reading were adopted, the consistency itself in the content of the law did not create. The other is substantive questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The Secretariat’s assessment is that the amendments adopted in the second reading do not undermine the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Explanation of voice. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As I said in my opening remarks on behalf of the parliamentary group at the outset, we are sure to note with satisfaction that certain parts of this law, as proposed by the government at the beginning, have been corrected. As I mentioned yesterday, in my last intervention in this National Assembly, Nova Slovenija cannot support this law unless an amendment of two parliamentary groups has been adopted. We are convinced that this is a system law that should ensure the full transparency of the privatisation process in Slovenia, and this has not been adopted. We will completely oppose this law, regardless of whether we recognize that some parts have been corrected and today it looks a little better than it did at the beginning. Thank you very much. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We will vote on the bill as a whole. Let's vote! There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 18. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the government for their cooperation, as well as the representatives of the secretariat. Thank you very much. And we're moving on to 4. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A TRAINING LAW IN ILLENIAN WATERS, STRAIGHT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? He doesn't want to. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, which is the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Andrey Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 21st meeting, on 5 February and 20 March, yesterday, the State Infrastructure Assembly Committee discussed a proposal for a law on inland waterway navigation sent by the Government to the National Assembly following a rapid procedure. At the same time, by submitting that proposal, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia withdrew from the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on the safety of navigation, the first law since 11 October last year. This law deals primarily with greater security and water security and better control of activities taking place on inland waters, which the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to do in order to comply with European legislation. It is also about doing much more in our views in the legislative field of nature protection and thus in the field of water. It is interesting, and we must also acknowledge that the Slovenian rivers are not large, they are small and therefore we must also carry out all the activities carried out on them in accordance with the law and for the good of our waters. In the context of the general discussion, the opinion was expressed that, despite the Committee's position in the discussion of the original text of the draft law, the powers between the State and local communities were not clearly divided. This was particularly pointed out by the mayors and Members of Parliament, who are very much involved in this issue in their municipalities. In particular, it has been pointed out that there is a completely unregulated state of recreational, sports and tourism activities in inland waters, in particular in terms of water, environment and nature protection, as well as the safety and safety of the participants in these activities. It was mentioned that most of our rivers and lakes in Slovenia are not large and therefore, fortunately, if I may say so, we do not have freight traffic and navigation takes place mainly for tourist and sports purposes. The debate also raised the question of "ship", whether "ship" is a boat or not and that it is a sort of shipping facility, which is very important because we have some ships on our border rivers, Muri and Drava, between Slovenia and Austria or Slovenia and Croatia, and we also need to settle these matters. The issue of border crossings on rivers and how we carry out traffic by means of waterways on these rivers was also raised. It was pointed out that the local community must lay down the conditions under which rafting can be carried out as an economic activity. We know that rafting has developed very quickly recently and is also very interesting for foreigners, who unfortunately do not pay taxes or certain charges, and the problem remains at the level of local communities. It was also important to know who was responsible for accidents involving sports activities, or the local community or the state. Following the general discussion, the Committee adopted a decision to support the consideration and adoption of the proposal for a law on inland navigation by means of a rapid procedure. He suggested that the drafter should examine the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, the amendments tabled in the debate of the Committee and prepare appropriate amendments and amendments to the legislative proposal in the form of an amendment. We discussed these amendments at yesterday's meeting. The Committee discussed and identified the amendments proposed by the Members, Dusan Vukko, Valentin Pohorec and Ivan Mamić, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment supports all amendments made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, except for Article 52, since, with the support of the amendment of Mr Dusan Vukko to the same article, it has become irrelevant; the amendments of Mr Valentin Pohorc to Article 3 to Title III. Articles 22, 23 and 25; amendments by Mr Vukka to Articles 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 15 and 15 and to the new Article 15a and Articles 34 and 52; he also supported the amendment of Mr Ivan Mamić to Article 6. The Committee did not support the amendment of Mr Ivan Mamić to Articles 1 and 3. Ambassador Valentin Pohorec announced the withdrawal of the amendment to Articles 4 and 24. On the basis of the debate, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 3 of the amendment to the amendment of the MEP Valentin Pohorc. The Committee of the National Infrastructure and Environment Assembly proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law on inland navigation, a rapid procedure, be adopted together with amendments to the Committee and amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding the general debate and moving on to a second reading. This is for discussion and decision on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on amendments and articles, it shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We are voting on the proposed procedural decision. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. I think the four Members have just joined us. I will hold a second vote on the procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 45 of us present. This is the second time we have not successfully voted. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. We continue at 3:47 p.m. when we vote on the procedural proposal for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u78	Your Honor, this is the third time we'll be able to determine the presence, so I'd like to ask your attention. We're picking up the presence! There are 53 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We are passing through or I apologize, we have adopted a decision, a procedural proposal has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 21.3.2002. The amendments are on 13 pages, so I'm going to ask your attention again. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 1 and on the two amendments to Article 1. Under 1 is the amendment of the government and under 2 is the amendment of Ambassador Ivan Mamić. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. The first vote on the amendment was not successful. There's 50 of us in the hall. I would be very pleased if the agreement we made with the leaders of the parliamentary groups continued to be discussed by this law. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. Next time we vote on the amendment under Thank you. [[...]] In 5 minutes, I am adjourning the session so that the technical services will review the voting device with Mr. Potræ. We'll pick it up at 15.55. I'd like to ask you to be gathered at the time of our second vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u79	As foretold, we have checked the voting device with Mr Ptræ. I do not think there will be any further problems in voting. The technical services have ensured that the device is functioning normally. Colleagues and colleagues, I'd like your attention. Secondly, we vote on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 1. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 24 votes to 24. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 24.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 3 and the six amendments to this Article. Under number 1 and 2, the amendment proposed by Ivan Mamić is an amendment to the amendment of Ambassador Valentin Pohorc, of whom the committee is the proposer, under 4 is the amendment of Valentina Pomić, under 5 is the amendment of the government and under 6 is the amendment of Ambassador Ivan Mamić. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. In fact, all these amendments and even those that have not been adopted are of the same character. I thought that [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u81	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u82	the word "thing" is not suitable as the word "object". [[...]] I looked at the Slovenian spelling and I thought it would be the right thing to do. Then I was told on the Infrastructure Committee that the maritime code contains the word "thing" and that it would not be confused now I think that if we made a mistake, it does not have to be repeated until death now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 18 votes to 29. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. The vote was 15 to 28. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 28.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment to the amendment under order number 3. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number 4. Let's vote! The vote has not been successfully carried out. May I have your attention, please? Second, we vote on the amendment under order number 4. Let's vote! I'm sorry. I'm calling off the vote. Let's vote next time! The second vote was not successful either. Actually, we're good enough in the hall. Please, let's try again so we don't have to interrupt the session needlessly. We are voting again on the amendment under order number 4. We'll vote for the third time at 16.11. Once again, I would like to ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups to take part in the agreement that has been concluded at the plenary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u84	We move to a vote on the amendment under order number 4 to Article 3. May I have your attention, please? Everyone who's around, please join us. This is the third time we will vote on the amendment under order number 4 to Article 3. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number 5. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number six. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 31. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 31.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to II. Chapter, to the title. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the address thus amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 4 and the three amendments to this Article. Under number 1, the amendment to the amendment of the Government of Mr Dusan Vukko, under order number 2, is the amendment of the Government and under order number 3, the amendment of Valentin Pohorca, which is announced to withdraw, has been withdrawn by Mr Pohorec. So we are discussing amendments under 1.2 and the whole article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to decision-making, first of all to amendment to amendment number one. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. The first vote on the amendment was not successful. Can I have your attention again? For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under order number 2. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Nothing.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving to debate and decision-making on Article 5 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 6 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the government and under 2 is the amendment of Ivan Mamić, supported by his mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision first on the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. There's enough of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention again. Second, we decide on Article 6 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 7 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision first on the amendment. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 8 and the amendment of Mr Dusan Vukko to this article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision first on the amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 9 and the Government's amendment to delete the article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 10 and the amendment of Mr Vuk to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 14 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The first vote on the amendment was not successful. We will try to vote on the amendment to Article 14 for the second time. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 15 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the government and under 2 is the amendment of Ambassador Vukko. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We shall first vote on the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 5. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new 15th Article of Mr Vukko. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! Just a minute. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article 15th paragraph have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to chapter 3 of which is proposed by Valentin Pohorec. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mahne, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The Government does not support this amendment by Mr Pohorc's proposer. It also does not support the following amendments to Articles 22, 23, 24 and 25, because this undermines the systematicity of the whole law. The amendment adopted under Article 3 supports the government by introducing an additional explanation and definition of the ship, and we agree with that. In all other definitions, however, there is unnecessary lack of transparency and we will therefore oppose this and the next amendments. We believe, however, that this issue could be addressed by defining in Article 30 that a ship is subject to reasonable provisions of this law or Chapters which define the ability to sail persons to carry out these ships and other provisions of this Chapter. In this way, we would have a better regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Title III. Chapters. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 23 votes to 18. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and thus the title has been amended. The title has only been amended in part, so we still have to vote on the title in full. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 30 votes to 12. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 12.]] I'm guessing it's Title III. Chapters adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 22 and the two amendments to this Article. Under number 1, the amendment of which is proposed by Member Valentin Pohorec and under order number 2, is the amendment of the Government. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mahne, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The technical competence of the ship cannot be determined by the body defined in the international agreement, but only by those in whose country the ship will be registered, either in Slovenia or in the neighbouring country. That's, I think, a valid enough reason not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We move on to decision-making, first of all to amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 27. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 27.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. The first time the vote failed. There's enough of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention again. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 6. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. Once again, we were not successful in the first vote, so I repeat it. Secondly, we vote on the whole article. We're voting. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u89	I have a procedural proposal. Today we operate with a conclusion that depends on three, four, five colleagues who are here. And of course, if they're moving away, then we're not done. But it's not their fault. This is how the story repeats itself to us in this sense, as it did before, that one is never here. About six months ago, we adopted one conclusion that Kviaz is submitting a report on the presence in this National Assembly. We never got the reports. A document has been sent to the sending groups, which has been of no benefit to anyone. We have situations where some come in, "jump" some national interests, spit everything out, leave us, cameras fly after them, microphones record them and are among the most popular in this country. Others come to Parliament to determine how much domestic and foreign travel is available. Of course, they're leaving us again, and they haven't been here for quite some time. Thirdly, they carry out the operations they managed prior to their election to the term of office and, of course, until they do, they are not in this Parliament, whatever it is. On the Committee on the Economy, we received a copy or one of the statistics showing how many are present. I was surprised, too, but then I realized it was okay. There are reasons for excused absences, but there are names and names that always appear the same, which are not present. I think it's the same here. At least let's vote on that. I think that we are foolish if we do not do so to repeat the same decision that we voted before the time of Kviaz, but this time in the sense that, at the convening of the National Assembly, I mean the document, when we receive the invitation for the next meeting, we also get a copy of the attendance in the National Assembly and in the working bodies every month. I agree with the criticism that was also present today on the Committee on the Economy that the organisation of meetings of working bodies is sometimes such that they are heavily covered up for individual members of the National Assembly or members of working bodies. But we're not covered here. The obligations of the national assembly and personal and private interests shall be covered. And these should be coordinated at least after a year and a half of the parliamentary mandate that we have here. [[It's not necessary.]] I therefore propose a procedural decision and reiterate it that, by reference to each next meeting, information on the presence in the national assembly and in the working bodies is provided and statistics for the whole year at the end of January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I cannot allow a second procedural decision to be discussed. We are obliged to vote on the procedural decision, which was first in line. There are 50 of us in the Chamber, of course, but we have not been able to make a second vote on, I think, 22 in full. That's how I'm supposed to abort my session in 10 minutes. Then, by voting on the procedural proposal by Mr Gez Juban, we will find a conclusion and then Mr Kelemina will propose a procedural proposal for you. The Rules of Procedure provide that the procedure proposal proposed first shall be voted on. Thank you very much. We continue our work at 4:45 p.m. when we vote on the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take the floor before we go to the vote to inform you that, of course, we will now take the third vote on Article 22 in full and thus establish our presence in the Chamber. Then, of course, we will vote on the procedural proposal. So this is the third time we've voted on22. the whole article. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. The procedural proposal proposed by Mr Geza Juban. I ask Mr Juban to repeat the procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u92	My procedural proposal was to obtain statistics on the presence in the national assembly and in the working bodies at the request of each next meeting for the past month. That was the first part. However, the second part was that, of course, the presence of the previous year was then aggregated by the end of January.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The procedural proposal shall be voted on by the State assembly without discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u94	Can I just fix it because I accept good suggestions that the leaders of the parliamentary groups should get the papers?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr Geza, I think that your procedural proposal is, in fact, I agree that this is not a procedural proposal to speak on the subject that we are discussing today, but a procedural proposal that relates to the work of the National Assembly and on such situations as you have said, is a clear rules of procedure and would in fact make it clear to all those who need to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is, above all, Kviaz, to act, it is a reference to it. However, representatives of the parliamentary groups shall also receive notifications of their presence at meetings, so that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u96	I just wanted to say this as Vice-President of Kviaza, as you have just stated - the leaders of the parliamentary groups receive these reports and I think there is no reason on the basis of this fact to vote on such a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I think we've been united on this, and if you don't mind, we'd be moving on with our work. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 23 and the amendment of Mr Valentin Pohorc to Article 23. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mahne, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The government opposes this amendment because it also introduces an additional log of ships. I think that is unnecessary, as we will already have in the individual administrative units the registers of boats in which these ships can easily be entered, and this would be unnecessary administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 30. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 24 and the two amendments to this Article. The amendment under number 1 of Ambassador Pohorc is announced to withdraw. You're withdrawing? Thank you very much. Under order number two, the government's amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 48 votes against one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now deciding on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 25 and the amendment of the proposaler Valentin Pohorc to this article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mahne, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u100	For the same reasons as I mentioned earlier that it would not be too long, we oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u102	I'm withdrawing the amendment because we've agreed, unfortunately, too late and there's been misinformation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 27 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 34 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is Ambassador Vukko's amendment, under 2 is the government's amendment. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mahne, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Therefore, Mr Vukko's amendment to Article 34(1) refers to all the text of this Article and brings incorrect solutions, so I propose that this amendment can only be applied to the second paragraph of this Article. I therefore propose that this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 21 votes to 18. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 35 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 38 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 40 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 41 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 42 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 50 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 52 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of Ambassador Vukko, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Government to the same article becomes irrelevant and is placed under order number 2. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I find that the amendment has been adopted and thus has become an amendment under order number two irrelevant. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that a number of amendments have been adopted to the proposal for a second reading. If qualified candidates wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so now, and I ask first of all whether anyone wants to discuss the draft law in its entirety. [[No, no, ……]] I inform the honourable assembly that we have received an amendment in the third reading to Article 34. I'll wait a minute, you'll just receive the amendment. If you don't mind, I'll introduce you to him at this time. The amendment was tabled by the LDS Club in Article 34, which reads as follows: In Article 34, the words 'local community' shall be replaced by 'competent local authority' in the first paragraph. Explanation: The issue of individual administrative acts is the responsibility of a specific body of the municipality and not of the local community as an integral term covering all municipal authorities and the local community as such. If I allow myself to assess, you had the opportunity to get acquainted with the amendment in writing as well. I am opening a debate on the amendment to Article 34. Mr. Sok, please, follow him, Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I would like to ask if the applicants can say [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u107	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Mr. Sok, just a moment. I very much ask for the needed peace to which the Member is entitled when he discusses it. Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u108	Well, it seems to me that the original diction, that this local community, which was just set up for this, was quite good. I don't know who the competent authority in the local community is. It is said that every congregation in its acts is in its offices, and such an amendment as has been tabled is entirely, in my opinion, unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Kavčič also spoke. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u110	With regard to the amendment proposal, only the drafting proposal, the substance of the amendment is harmonised and is fine, but it must be read with the words 'competent authority', not 'competent authority'. This will be taken into account by the government when finalising the text of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you. If I'm not mistaken, we have accepted the amendment to Title III. Chapter, so it's added "and ships", but there's no mention of a ship in the entire chapter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u113	That'll be for the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u114	We're in third now. You're asleep! [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the secretariat, Mrs Ogrincheva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. The Member's finding is perfectly correct. By way of derogation from the amendment adopted to Title III. Chapters are actually introduced, in addition to ships and boats, including ships. The unacceptable amendments that proposed the updating of the basic text, including the individual ship-related solutions, of course create inconsistentness. Well, and I would point to this inconsistentness; after the third reading, of course, it will be necessary to update, in this regard, the 30th article, which will introduce the necessary content, I think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I ask qualified candidates whether, given the warning given by the secretariat and Mr Gasparini, but in the third amendment, they would make an amendment to regulate this non-consistency at this stage, on the proposal of qualified candidates, of course, they would be able to break this point by preparing appropriate amendments in the third reading that would eliminate these inconsistencies and, of course, they could be drafted. Representative. Mr. Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u118	to propose to the government to prepare an amendment for the third reading, and now let us end this agenda item. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Representative of the government, do you agree to review the matter and prepare an amendment? Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. So, if I may, today I am not qualified to be an amendment, but I suggest that perhaps those who can do so would add a new paragraph in article 30, which reads: "The provisions of this chapter of the law governing the description and determination of the ability of boats to sail and the competence of persons to manage boats also make sense to the ship." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask whether any of the members of the Group will take on this role and prepare as qualified Mr Gerencher, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u122	I'm asking you to abort. Our Group of Members will table an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. How much time do you need? Five minutes. Let's say 10. At 5:20, please, everyone here with an amendment prepared. Thank you very much. It's 5:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u124	We'll keep working. I'm obliged to give you the following notice. We will decide on the amendment to Article 34, and then, of course, we will have to find out what the representative of the Secretariat has warned us about, but unfortunately, the article to be amended in the second reading has not been closed, so after the third reading, of course, we will have to stop addressing this point and ask the government to prepare a harmonisation amendment. This is the only solution to the embarrassment we've been alerted to. Thus, we do not have to wait for the amendment in the third reading, because it cannot be, because it would have been inserted into an article that was not amended in the second reading and would therefore have been incorrectly tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 34, which you have on the bench and whose proposer is the LDS Member Club and which we have already discussed. With the correction pointed out by Mr Kavčič instead of "competent", "competent". We decide on this amendment. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 2. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. Since we have found that the law is inconsistent with each other, I interrupt this item of the agenda and ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a harmonisation amendment. Once it is ready, we will decide on it and then on the bill as a whole. I would like to thank the representative of the Government and the secretariat very much for their cooperation. And we're moving on to reading 10. agenda items, this is to the point of defence of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Health Care of Animals and Products and Substances which come into contact with animals, the summary procedure of the Law proposal has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its consideration of the Council. Representatives of the government, please join us. A representative and a representative of the government are joining us. I say hello to them between us. I ask the Minister if he wants a word. Professor Dr. Dusan Keber, Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u125	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on food health, and I will shorten it later on to a law on food, in which I would actually present two chapters to you in this introductory presentation in the general debate. One chapter is the amendment of the legislation in the field of nutrition and the other chapter is probably much more receptive and interesting to you too, the so-called advertising of alcohol. The first part of the law, of course, comes under the influence of our adaptation to the European Union, as well as our own needs, to introduce in this country the concept of a food policy that is at this level, to have a system and people to protect the citizen and protect him in order to guide him to a healthy lifestyle and to healthy eating habits and to protect him from harmful eating habits and food, we have not so far. This law therefore enforces and introduces the Food Office, not bringing it up to date, but only from the existing law it is passed on from government level to the level of the Ministry of Health. This means, for the transfer of the Office and this Office, it is intended to lead in the country the food policy that approaches or is linked to the citizen. I would like to mention that some of the areas dealing with nutrition are the most powerful in the agriculture ministry, but it has also become clear, according to the instructions and requirements of the European Union, that there can be no control, a food policy linked only to the sector that covers production, but must also be linked to the sector that is on the side of citizens' health and protection. So the solution of this time is that we actually have two pillars covering this chain, and it will be - we can say for ourselves - that it is a waste that is transient and will very likely, within a few years, become a single food agency in which all those working in a partial way today will unite. The law in this food work, which I have mentioned, brings some other definitions, such as definitions of genetically modified food and how such food can be brought to our market. And that's what I wanted to tell you about this part of the law. The second part of the law is the advertising of alcoholic beverages, which would only briefly remind you of the history of this proposal. On the one hand, a year ago and more ago, the media law, which banned alcohol advertising in its entirety and, of course, in society, in particular with interested producers, advertisers and traders, has been strengthened, we can say that there is a legitimate pressure to reduce this repressiveness or the complete prohibition of advertising alcohol, which is, of course, an exception, rather than the rule in other countries, even though some other countries are extremely restrictive in advertising. That was one position. The second position, however, was that of the Ministry of Health in the past year, which wishes to draw attention to its harmful effects and to prepare a legal basis to reduce the harmful use of alcohol, with the Ministry seeking to focus on those who are beginning to use alcohol, particularly on youth. In that law, the law on the reduction of harmful use is usually based on several pillars. One of the pillars is the price of alcohol, the other is the reduction of access to alcohol for young people. And one of the pillars is also reducing the advertising of alcohol and the fourth is, of course, all the things a country can do with its regulation to make better education, awareness, education, convincing about when alcohol ceases to be a food, if I have to say that it is a food, I say very reluctantly, in any way is harmful food and actually becomes harmful. At this level, it has been shown that this law, which will be submitted to the government within one or two weeks at the latest and will then be in Parliament, is not abandoned, but will be submitted to Parliament by normal procedure and its duration, which can be foreseen in Parliament, has suggested that the advertising search is looking for a way to achieve advertising through faster or shorter procedures. To shorten this story, although not very enthusiastic, we find at the Ministry of Health that the real position of advertising alcohol is indeed the food law, because the food law also regulates all the rest of the food advertising and it is only normal to cover this area as well; and let me say that, in fact, we do not particularly like the Ministry of Health to announce as those who have introduced alcohol advertising into this country because we are fighting to reduce its use. That we are instituting this, and yet there is one positive thing that I will not hide from you. This is that we can introduce it and also introduce a limitation element. What is ahead of you is advertising with restrictive elements, which, of course, should release, give manufacturers and traders the freedom to inform and inform, but nevertheless in the Ministry of Health's domain, that, with the law in its domain, it imposes restrictions that make sense and which are also comparable to other countries. In this area we have encountered many influences, pressures that have mostly reduced to simple arguments, that we advocate prohibition and that there is nothing to be done with legal regulation, only more education is important and the matter will be resolved. It is difficult to provide evidence of whether advertising or advertising restrictions have an impact on the reduced harmful use of alcohol, because the countries that are doing so are doing it together. This means reducing accessibility, higher prices and advertising. But I can say calmly: in all countries where they have this policy, alcohol consumption is lower than in countries where there is no policy. I could give you reverse evidence: if the education is important, then we can only have the question of whether we are not raising our children and ourselves, because Slovenia is a good example of how in the last 15 years the consumption of alcohol per capita has not changed at all, while, for example, in France it fell by 50%, in Spain by 30%. This means that in countries that are wine producing and consuming alcohol, consumption has fallen while nothing has happened to us. And it is also, of course, an illusory expectation that only education can be ordered by law. In the area of education, we will also owe much to ourselves, beyond the measures of the State, to add this fourth or fifth pillar, which is needed to reduce this public health problem, very likely the number one in the country. Since I will talk about this extent of the problem in another law, I would not tell you today, but I want to talk to you about the impact of advertising. Advertising has the most impact on children, that's known. In particular, advertising needs to be limited in some way if we are talking about restriction, it needs to be removed or at least reduced from the accessibility of children's eyes, which do not distinguish between positive and negative and other incentives, but rather accept information as they are given and maintain positive advertising messages. Let me just remind you of another commercial, and this is advertising Marlboro cigarettes with cowboys on horses. Definitely from childhood, although children do not smoke at the time, there is a positive incentive to smoke in adulthood. And the essence of advertising is not so much that children will start drinking at the age of eleven because of ads, the essence of advertising is to embody some values, some positive attitude towards some foods that you bring into adulthood. That is why we - and I would like to inform you that there is a compromise proposal before you, I can say, to a large extent - including those who have advocated a less stringent solution, you can be satisfied because the main lobbies are about - I will not say that they are satisfied, but at least they accept the solutions that are in this law. Therefore, it is not too much for me to comment on what the citizens of this country will say about this law in one year. Even if today there may be votes, or if this reduces the possibility of producers, I would say no to you, we are increasing it. Because it's been banned so far. We're opening up advertising. Questions may also be asked about whom and who will advertise most of the time. And let me say, very likely at least the ones on whose behalf the lobbies most often performed. They did, however, on behalf of the wine producers. There is not much money in this segment and there is not much money for advertising. It is important to consider whether we will flood the country with ads from foreign producers and how big these ads will be and who they will serve. Therefore, I would ask you to understand the solutions contained in this law, even though you would literally defend yourself to someone who seems exaggerated or ridiculous. For example - because later this will be mentioned - the ban on advertising 300 meters around schools. The question is, why 300 meters, why can't it be visible from a distance or something? We may be discussing this with your amendments. In fact, 300 meters around schools are causing some sort of hygiene prison, not just because of schools, but from places, from cities, from settlements, literally, we do not need our country to be overwhelmed by ads and not by mega ads throughout the country. Therefore, in another article, you will find a provision for posters of limited size. I would like to remind you that if posters are not of limited size, you can experience ads from Hong Kong or from other countries where whole skyscrapers are glued with an ad for a particular drink and you can see ads from the plane for that drink. And this drink won't be Slovenian, you must know that. By moderation in advertising; where we are always looking at the right to information being present and that everyone participates evenly - it is present, and at the same time it is a true restriction. The most limited advertising, understandable, is in the mainstream media, and this is a television where we restrict advertising to half an hour and a half in the evening. I would like to tell you that the total ban on advertising in our country is 15 percent of the volume of alcohol in drink, which means we cover everything, including strong wines. In France, the wine-growing country, advertising is only allowed up to 1.2 percent; all others are prohibited. Which means advertising is only allowed for light beer. These cases - perhaps later, if you want proof of how this is resolved in various countries - are also annexed to the law and I will be able to present them later. But, I want to tell you, each of our solutions has comparisons in the world, none of our solutions is the most extreme from the series of solutions used by different countries. We think that, in fact, we are doing something that means moderate, but in spite of everything visible, identifiable restrictive policy, of course today we are starting to advertise, with the whole law, in the coming months - I hope, with your help - we will achieve this policy throughout the field of alcohol limitation. I would therefore ask you to understand this text, not only to those who want to have a very permissive alcohol law right now, but to meet 2 million citizens, your electorate who have their children, and who will experience pollution by advertising and public opinion in one way or another right now, according to our opinion, is explicitly on the side of the resolution of this law. With this introduction, I would like to make this presentation, if necessary, by contacting individual articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A warm welcome to the Minister with her co-worker and all colleagues and fellow Members. The Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities, as a parent, considered the draft law at its 17th regular session. Members of the Committee had at their disposal a number of materials, both the opinion of the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as an interested working body, the comments and proposals of the amendments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the views and proposals of the Slovenian Advertising Chamber, then the views and proposals of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, so that it could be approached by such and other arguments on the content of the law. The introductory explanation was given to the members of the Committee by Mr Minister and Mrs State Secretary, so I would not repeat what has already been said. However, it is important to make a few words in the opinion of the secretariat for a moment. In its rather broad opinion, the Secretariat, in addition to its general findings, made a number of arguments to individual articles, both in legal and systemic terms and in terms of the specific terminology of the understanding of the law. We have first identified ourselves to the proposed procedure, despite the fact that there have been a lot of concerns, that the proposal for legislation after a reduced procedure with such material, which it brings, has been somewhat difficult to process in all its contents, and we have supported the proposal for a reduced procedure. However, further consideration of the bill's proposal at the Committee's meeting has been given to the amendments. It should be said that, in view of the many findings of the opinion of the secretariat, the proposer has drawn up proposals for amendments with which objections or fundamental findings of the secretariat are to be made, he would have said, explained and perhaps put them into a more acceptable form and meaning. Therefore, consideration of individual articles in the discussions was also strongly present. On this basis, the Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 14, 16, 17, and 18, and also adopted the amendments as new Articles 18a and 18b. The members of the Committee did not support the amendments of the working body concerned, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, but their first amendment became substantively summarised in the amendments adopted by the Committee as its amendments. Therefore, the Committee also proposes a decision on the basis of which the National Assembly should consider and adopt the law in short-term procedure, together with amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that the opinion will be relatively brief, I will not waste my time walking for a payphone. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we support the incorporation of the law into the treatment, but we have been critical of it being adopted after a reduced procedure, because with certain interventions into legal matter, if we really want to do it well, we should necessarily cut into certain other provisions beyond those provisions which are the subject of a reduced procedure. Of course, putting in place provisions that touch other articles is dangerous, so there may be some vague solutions. We think it's inappropriate to intervene under the authority of the Food Office. We then had the biggest comments on the administrative ban or the additional arrangements for issuing the consent of the two inspectors, if the seller issues the food in a dislocated manner, because it is in fact only the method of sale and then the criteria and competences under other laws, but not here. Since most of our things have been accepted by the Committee, legal matter has also improved considerably. The advertising of alcoholic beverages needs to be mixed, so the law must be written that it is clear what advertising is and what information is in the store itself. We discussed this a lot so that it would not then be possible for the stores themselves to produce alcohol files, and we are committed to restricting advertising and restricting the possibility of access, particularly for minors. We believe, however, that this is only one way of interfering with restrictions or access, but that it is necessary to regulate youth and alcohol relations - or people and alcohol consumption - also through other measures. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you again for the floor, Madam Vice-President. It is quite clear that the proposal for the amendment of this law brings in particular two novelties, as the Minister has already said in the introduction. That is to say, to establish a food and nutrition office, or to put it in place, is to move from the current membership to the law under the auspices of the Ministry of Health. And of course, it establishes and regulates the system of advertising alcoholic beverages with alcohol content, which is, of course, 15 or less parts of alcohol in a litre of total liquid. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are united in the fact that the issue of food and nutrition for the national health of the population is so important that the establishment and, more than that, the functioning of the relevant body is essential and necessary. The Office, as this body is supposed to be called, must, of course, carry out the widest part of the tasks of national food policy in its work. Therefore, through the composition of the Office, the staff composition of the Office, and thus through the Office's work area, must reflect both the powers and the human resources presence of the individual departments concerned in the area of food or food safety and nutrition. Not only is it necessary to regulate or adjust the legal order of the European Union because this area needs to be fully controlled and specifically regulated by our own population. It is only important that the Office act rationally and effectively also because of the relatively large amount of funding necessary to enable the Office to operate. We do not support the solution or purpose of Article 3 of the bill because, as it is set up, it increases or doubles certain administrative procedures, which would in practice inhibit some kind of normal and relatively well-run production and trafficking in food outside the premises, that is, in the stands. Another key novelty of the bill is the possibility of advertising alcoholic beverages containing a smaller percentage of alcohol. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are united that alcohol or alcohol consumption cannot be viewed only negatively. The consumption of less alcoholic beverages or alcoholic beverages such as wine, as well as the general feeling and health of humans, is acceptable and present throughout the long history of human beings, is not and cannot be subject to abuse at the expense of completely unacceptable overindulgence in alcohol, which is indisputably harmful - not only for the individual, but also for society as a whole. We also advocate in the parliamentary group that all types of measures should be prevented and restricted to the consumption of alcohol between children and the entire young population. It is in this context that we support the possibility that alcoholic beverages containing less alcohol may also be advertised among articles which may be advertised in accordance with advertising rules. However, we firmly believe that advertising is lawfully recorded or so defined in this law that it cannot come into practice to different interpretations and therefore to subjective or subjective judgements when deciding or acting on inspection controls and uncertainty as to how to act correctly, those directly or indirectly concerned by advertising. In this regard, we will also support all the amendments adopted by the Committee, which, in a significant sense, define in more detail the individual measures and the purpose resulting from the basic proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you. The opinion of the Socialist Party Group will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Respectable. As already mentioned, two major innovations in this law or in amending the law have been announced: first the Food Office and then advertising. So in the Food and Nutrition Office, which is supposed to be located at the Ministry of Health, it is somewhat unclear its place of higher - a - higher inspectorate for quality control of agricultural crops or foodstuffs, which was established in December last year, and higher - a higher - than the ideas of the Office for Food at government level. Even food, as explained in the committee's explanation, is, of course, an interdepartmental matter and will also be dealt with by the Ministry of Agriculture and, of course, also with veterinary and similar matters. However, cooperation was mentioned in the very explanation, competences were somehow indicated, and we would like to see this defined in the law. We are somehow afraid that, in this dictatorship and in this concept, the food and nutrition office will somehow get up in the air, although, on the other hand, it seems to us that it is better that the office is located in one ministry than some inter-resortory lost in the government. It will probably be possible to complete this further process. But, of course, advertising is a key issue here. By this law we virtually release advertising completely. I wouldn't pretend we're just closing the door a little bit. On the contrary, the restrictions are listed for spirit drinks, beer, wine - this is said to be up to 15% of alcohol - but they are virtually released. The restrictions referred to in Article 15b are totally useless until the eighth indent, these are some subjective assessments, but this will be the subject of an amendment to the speech. They are useful only from the ninth to the thirteenth indent, where, of course, we will face immediate pressure to - say - reduce or somehow protect the surroundings of kindergartens and schools from advertising in the field of vision and not in the range of 300 m and so on. Therefore, the last indents are valid and are under discussion because the sign is also that the amendments, and in the first eight indents, are no comments, no amendments, because they are in the air somewhere and are useless. But the very idea of limiting advertising is actually based on these undefined eight indents. After that, in a separate debate, however, the main debate raised the issue of roadside posters. See, limit to one square metre, it may mean that from the centre to the end of Tržaška, Celovška, Slovenske, on all candelabras, 0.8 square meters will be a large poster. This is more effective than ten big, jumbo posters. That's not a restriction. And you know that these companies are extremely well and skillfully located and will be able to have 50 small posters, eyes and the driver’s first look registers this as a single poster, as a single offer. Why against advertising? First of all, who has been in harm's way since advertising was banned? Who? What? Why do we have to fix it? Probably because alcohol consumption was too low, probably because of that. I don't know. The citizens weren't hurt. Someone else was hurt. And you know what advertising means - advertising means, so in addition to all the psychological parameters contained in the advertising process, it means, above all: alcohol is a socially acceptable drug. Realizing that alcohol is a socially acceptable drug means that it would become socially acceptable to go down the road and throw the rest of the paper on the floor, spit on the road, and so forth. It's socially acceptable. Why don't people spit on the road and throw waste away bags on the road, why? Because they're ashamed that this has become socially unacceptable. And we will open the door to raising young people because at every step of the way, they will see that this is socially acceptable. I'm not excited about this myself. And if there is somehow a need to make more money for wine growers and beer producers, then I would certainly only allow what the committee has proposed: no relaxation, no decisive relaxation along the roads. I think this is the most that we can in some way support, and I advocate the decision of the committee, as has already been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-21-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much. It's 18 and 2 minutes. I only ask if any of the members of the Group would still like a word, or if tomorrow, of course, it will be the Member and Members' turn. It's just this notice. We will continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the 10th item on the agenda, then continue with the 21st item on the agenda and on the agenda. If, of course, she submits the harmonisation amendment to item 4 of the agenda, we will also do this point tomorrow. I would like to thank all of you very much for your cooperation, including the representatives of the Government and the representatives of the Secretariat. Thank you very much.
