ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, good morning, good morning! I begin the continuation of the 18th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Jelko Kacin, Roman Jakič, Silva Črnugelj, Bogdan Barovic, Vojko Čeligoj, Alojz Peterle, Janez Podobnik, Matjaž Švagan, Franc Čebulj, Branko Janc, Anton Partljič, Victory Jelinčič, Bogomir Zamernik, mag. Janez Kramberger, Rudolf Mogue from 6 p.m. on, Jožef Školč, Maria Possonec from 2.30 p.m. on, Jožef Jerovšek from 15.00 hours on and Cveta Zalokar Orazem from 6.00 p.m. on. We're moving to 14. Period of the day - First defense proposal of the Health Act. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed France Tsukati. With regard to this law, there is a group of eleven Members with a first-signed magi. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the word to the government representative - excuse me! - the representative of the proposer for further explanation of the law. Please, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. President, if I understand correctly, do I have five minutes?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u3	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you. Your Honor! For quite some time, according to the new health legislation adopted in 1992, there has been a number of problems in Slovenian health care and, clearly, we are all aware of this, they are only deepening and demanding early action and resolution. In any case, it is one of the areas to be resolved, including the area of public health care, its area of operation, which is the area of the Health Act. Initially, in early August, the Health Care Act was introduced, which also included the first chapter of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is the social care of health, namely the part that speaks about the budgetary, state role in this healthcare system, namely the role of the State to take care of prevention, awareness, epidemiology, social medicine, at the level of the State. This is also the activity of the Institute for Health Protection, the Institute for Health Care, regional institutions and the like. In addition, the tasks of the municipalities were in this chapter, employers related to the working environment and the like. As it is known, the Health Insurance Act has been withdrawn so that this chapter remains in the old law, and we are therefore facing only a bill replacing the Health Act. The news in the building of this law is as follows: I will only mention those that are more important to the debate. The general provisions stress the individual’s health responsibility, including environmental awareness, in the section on public health care, seeks to resolve the new institutional dilemmas, particularly in basic health care, concessions and networks. Furthermore, health care providers are more precisely defined, which raises the issue of the establishment of multiple chambers according to professions and in line with the models we have in other European countries, and the health-care routes are more precisely defined or are the legal basis for a more detailed definition in the form of sub-laws. And the cure. With regard to individual matters, allow me only now to mention in the introductory part the most important or most important matters arising from the requirements of our recently adopted national programme, namely, the public health service network. Of course, we have this network scattered all over Slovenia, all over the places and this network depends on the number of institutions and the number of individual health care providers. And it is this network - the lack of realisation and monitoring of this network that has helped us to have such differences in individual places as I will then do in the second part when I speak for this speaker on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the parliamentary groups, representatives of the groups of Members, first of all Mrs Danica Simšič has the word on behalf of the United List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister and others! The draft law, which was tabled by a group of 11 Members with the first-signed Mr Frances Tsukati on 11 June this year, is to be fully replaced by the Health Act of 10 years ago. In the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is a bold attempt by the 11th to draw up such a sensitive system law as the Health Act. However, we estimate that they failed the most. The Act, which is divided into seven thematic clusters, from the basic provisions, public health care, public health monitoring, health care, medicines to criminal and transitional provisions, introduces a partially new terminology. The individual definitions differ so much from the currently generally established and existing health legislation with regard to the defined definitions. New words are introduced, such as “basic health care”, or, for example, “protector”, which I would refer to as “any patient or injured person or anyone to whom a medical activity is intended”. In doing so, it is interesting that the definition of the term “protector”, which in other acts in fact means a person who cannot take care of himself or decide on his own, appears only in Article 49, so firmly in the second half of the law. However, the term “patient” is often used in the proposal but is not precisely defined. If, before a slightly more detailed review of the articles of the law itself for a moment, I have to be quick to assess the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, as the proponents see, I must say that we do not agree with certain assessments in our parliamentary group, but some we simply do not understand. For example, those referred to in point 1 that are intended to define one of the fundamental shortcomings which makes such a fundamental intervention necessary in the current legislation. And again, “the realization is made that citizens as individuals have not only the right to health, but also the duty to maintain their own health and the health of others”. I'd say it's good that we're aware of this and that it's getting more and more effective. However, it cannot be agreed that this fact should be one of the fundamental shortcomings called for by the changes. However, in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we agree with the view that health homes should remain the centre where basic health care should be carried out. At the same time, we are very surprised by the proposal of 11 Members and Members, which in fact envisages the maintenance of the constitutional rights that are now in the domain of local communities at the primary level. Equal support for the proposal also provides for the award of concessions where the municipality is not supposed to have any right to co-decision or opinion on the award of concessions anymore. It's all supposed to come to the minister or the ministry. I'd like to touch another piece of news brought by the law. It's the area of medicine. This is certainly a very sensitive and broad area, but in our view it requires treatment in a specific law, but not only a superficial definition in the six articles of the proposal. It is evident that the applicants of this activity do not know very well: neither substantively nor organisationally, as some of the representatives of this activity have pointed out, which have their organisation and registration in international terms, even more clearly, than this legislative proposal foresees. For example, if I mention only the society of rexotherapists of Slovenia. We also see the proposal as a fairly vague and vague definition of the health network and the fact that it has actually forgotten the prevention in the broadest sense of the word. Finally, I would like to express, at least to our Group of Members, the incomprehensible ease with which the applicants carry out the Slovenian language. And to be perfectly clear: Article 54 of the bill states: "The health care provider who carries out his work in direct contact with the Ombudsman must know the Slovenian language, according to his activity. The fulfilment of the condition referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be demonstrated by a public certificate of completion of secondary school or by a certificate of the educational institution. Health care providers who are nationals of the Republic of Slovenia or of the Member State of the European Community, knowledge of the Slovenian language, need not be proved by a document.” End of statement. If the applicants know exactly what they have written in this article, they also confirm the following facts. Firstly, the justification in point 13 of the objectives and principles of the law, which states: “The requirement of Slovenian language knowledge is consistent with European legislation that does not require minority language knowledge.” Furthermore, the motioners wrote that "a recent European court has ruled that a competent body in the country should only require "appropriate" language knowledge which is not required to be demonstrated by a document. This mitigation of requirements will be "only valid for citizens of the European Community when Slovenia enters the European Union," as the applicants once again wrote. “And in the second paragraph of Article 87, where the final and transitional provisions are defined, it is written: “Forgivement of the proof of the knowledge of the Slovenian language of health operators from the Member States of the European Community with the Charter shall enter into force on the date of Slovenia’s entry into the European Union.” The above clearly shows that the applicants are doing very well with our Constitution and the constitutional definition of Slovenian as an official language, but also with the constitutional category of the language of national minorities, literally, I apologize, they are bubbling up. And to our surprise, these are just the ones or at least some of them who, in the special law that we are also considering at this meeting - and this is a proposal for a law on the performance of health professions in the Republic of Slovenia for citizens of other Member States of the European Union - put on the trenches of the defence of Slovenian as an official language, following the constitution of a defined language. Here, in their law, they clearly state that, after the full membership of Slovenia in the European Union, citizens of the European Union working in Slovenia will no longer have to prove the knowledge of the Slovenian language with any document. There's probably nothing more to say about that. It follows from this that, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats of this bill, we will not support this proposal as appropriate for further parliamentary treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. France Tsukati has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. So, as I predicted, the basic and first health problem is the public health service network. See, in 1992, the establishment and responsibility for basic health care went to the congregations. And ever since then, the difference between congregations and regions has only deepened. We currently have about doctors of general medicine, for example, in the celian region of 1,600 inhabitants per doctor, in Murska Sobota 1,800. In preschool children and in pediatricians, school doctors, in the Ljubljana region we have 1,100 children per doctor, in New Town, in the Novomec region - 1,800. Gynecologists, example: in Novi Gorica 5,900 women per gynecologist, in Maribor 8,230 women per gynecologist. Not to mention others, let me mention orthodontists, these are children's dental prosthetics specialists: in the korsi district unit 6,100 children, in Murski Sobota 16,400 children on orthodontist. Your Honor, this is already a violation of the constitutional provisions on equality and, therefore, something has to be done here. It is also important to determine the institutions and similar things. When I talk about basic health care, of course the differences within the region are even greater, even 1:10. In such situations, it is noted that the determination and decision-making of the network at municipal level is poorly carried out. At the same time, the municipalities have split up, we have fragmented small municipalities at the same time, there is no possibility of financing this activity, funding runs through completely different channels; and there is no possibility of providing personnel, since this is provided at the republical level, human reproduction takes place differently than the municipality could intervene in this area. In short, the municipalities are burdened with basic health care, they do not have the means to rebuild health homes, so those who still have health homes, that of other municipalities that do not have smaller municipalities, I do not talk about it - the period of self-contribution is over. All of this suggests that it would be good to consider that responsibility for basic health care, both as regards the network, equality in the accessibility of the people of Slovenia to this health service, as well as responsibility for possible new investments and so on, would be taken over by the state. It's just one way to maybe solve this problem that's getting deeper, maybe you'll figure it out another way, we didn't do it the other way. Furthermore, there is also a major problem with the rest of the network. Let me mention technologically very demanding and expensive diagnostic equipment. Look, one of the CTs actually canceled at the Clinical Center and it's all wrong. We know that CTs are being deployed to hospitals by getting it from that hospital and that hospital that's more aggressive, more knowledgeable about financial resources at the republical level and so on. Whoever sees this, sees that in expensive equipment too, it is necessary to establish a network of these expensive appliances, monitor the functionality of this network, provide funds for the investment maintenance of these apparatus and be prepared to be replaced in a timely manner when their lifetime runs out. Your Honor! These are the key problems of citizens' insurance! Without these approaches, of course, we will not solve these problems. The next problem is the granting of concessions. Also in the award of concessions, where municipalities grant concessions, we see great differences and irregularities between the congregation and the congregation. We have cases where, for example, no concessions have been granted in an individual congregation, even though it might be the only way to get rid of the network or to resolve the lack of personnel in that congregation. In another congregation, things run differently, multiple concessions are granted and so forth. In short, the criteria for granting concessions are again partisan, separate, different and all result in a different supply of health services to patients according to where this is happening. And yet, I think that the management of the network or the management of the public health service is of state importance and it would be good to consider the proposal that concessions be granted at the primary level by the Minister. Of course, there is also a lot of talk about medicine. Look, there are proposals, and the ministry is proposing that this section, this chapter, be excluded so that we don't have it here in law anymore. However, the aim of the treatment regime is to protect the citizen from the flood of all kinds of offers that are often dangerous to citizens. And we have also spoken with representatives of the medical routes and are currently organized, somehow led under the Chamber of Commerce. They want to regulate these matters, they want and are willing to take on the responsibilities that we offer in the law, and these are the responsibilities for just managing the profession. This is a European system of subsidiarity: if an activity can self-discipline itself, then it is not necessary for the ministry to be burdened with this, but to allow the treatment to be organised only in accordance with certain guidelines which the legislator of course gives. And the cure is prepared, at least those with whom we have spoken, to assume these responsibilities which the law imposes on the physicians; this is to organise, namely, to respect the principles with which medical services are permitted - that is, those with whom we do not harm, etc. - to ensure that the medical community assumes certain public powers; that is to say, the granting of licences, the register of physicians; the supervision of the work of physicians, the code of ethics and so on; that, of course, it binds them to the knowledge of emergency situations, which is extremely important for the physician to know what is the urgent situation in which he must not interfere and must immediately send the patient to public health service; and, of course, the complaint trails in the civil society. Well, of course, the proposal has many other details and innovations, and it is certainly crucial to facilitate work, to improve the working conditions of the health service and to protect or improve the accessibility of security guards, to say to the public: to the health service, because - to mention the problem of the guards, the patient is not enough, the injured person is not enough, the insured person is not enough, as the healthcare service must also address the unprotected person in urgent cases. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič of the Slovenian People's Party has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. I welcome you all. The proposal of the Health Act is, as a whole, a summary, a series of necessary amendments and additions, which in the field of health activities are guided by experience and knowledge and social change over a good decade of operating under the applicable law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the proposal for the Health Act is both conceptual and substantively and professionally well-designed and therefore we support its further consideration, in which it will be possible to deal with all the arguments that the content of the proposal as such brings about, and this content, of course, can also be improved for good and for the purpose of the law, particularly in the second reading, in many ways. In view of the challenges of the time we live, both the area that the legislative proposal wants to regulate, as well as the health insurance sector, must be restructured in a normative manner, following the needs and expectations of the population. In doing so, it should not be as important who drafts the bill or who submits it to the national assembly as it is how good this product is. And this product is, in our opinion, good enough, especially if we compare it with a whole range of other proposals which the National Assembly already has and will consider to be a suitable or good basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Peče, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. He's not here. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maria Ani Tisovec, New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues and everyone else. The current Health Act was adopted 10 years ago. At that time, however, some of his shortcomings proved to be true. Let me just remind you of a few of the most important things. The first concerns the organisation of primary health care at local level, which no longer follows changes in the organisation of local self-government. In the debate on proposals for the establishment of new municipalities, the issue of health homes in local communities was highlighted in this year's debate and decision on the conditions for the establishment of new municipalities. At the same time, many established municipalities do not even have a health station, so the individual health home covers the needs of the population in several municipalities. It follows that the quality of local care for basic health care is falling significantly. Another problem that is emerging is also related to the provision of public health services to the population. The non-deferentiality of the network of such services, at the same time as the lack of orderliness, the lack of uniformity in the award of concessions has a very negative impact on the health status of the population. Slovenia needs well-organised health care at all levels, as its population is getting older; birthity is still declining, while the ratio between the number of people and the number of doctors in Slovenia is, above all, less favourable than in other European countries. This is why the paradox is unacceptable that on the one hand we have an increasing number of unemployed young doctors who would like to specialize and, on the other hand, the growing staffing needs of new specialists and specialists, since without specialization regular jobs are no longer provided in Slovenia. In New Slovenia, we support the proposal for a law because we believe that it adequately eliminates the shortcomings and regulates them, which has not been regulated so far. With regard to the organisation of the public health network, it seems very important that the law passes on the establishment of health homes to the country, while allowing the State to pass on this constitutional right at all times with the consent of the municipal or future regions to them. The regionalisation of local self-government of Slovenia is not yet complete, so it is not possible to bind the functioning of individual health centres to individual municipalities. Such arrangements should also regulate ownership. The law does not oblige the local community in any decision to transfer only the ownership of buildings of health homes to the country. At the same time, it provides that the premises for health care cannot change their destination without the consent of the Minister of Health and must not be charged for a gainful rent. The law specifies the public health network, which brings together public health establishments and workplaces of health operators, whether it is a job in a public institution or a self-employed concessionaire. We also support the approach to regulating primary, secondary and tertiary activities, after which all checks that are possible at the primary level should be carried out before the patient is sent to secondary or tertiary levels. At the same time, in the event of such rationalisation, it should be considered that a patient should be referred to a higher level immediately if his retention at primary level would be harmful. Due to the coherence between the levels of the law, it provides for secondary concern for the linkage with the primary level of the public health service and its gravity areas. Quality monitoring of the public health service network will also contribute to improving the quality of public health services. In our view, it is also necessary to provide for a health concession to be awarded on the basis of a call for tender if the network is not occupied. It also seems rational to us to be an exception to this regime, under which there is no need for an invitation to tender in the event of a change in legal status, of a health operator and of an employee in a self-conceived concessionaire. It is also a welcome arrangement that concessionaires may appoint their representatives to the professional council of the institution if they carry out the same and similar health activity in the same gravitational area as the institution. This will ensure the professional integration of employees and private health care providers. As I mentioned in the introduction, there remain vacant posts for specialists, such as anesthesiologists, because there are no candidates for them. With a view to solving this problem, the law requires teaching institutions to accept for education and training the number of trainees and specialists, as defined by the Minister. The law allows the establishment of new halls for those medical professions that do not yet have their own chamber. The area of medicine should also be regulated, as it is increasingly being applied as an alternative and complemented by classical medical doctrine. We therefore support the decision of the writer of the law, which defined the medicinal activity in him and listed the authorisation of the medical service, justified the company of physicians and with a view to the safety of the healer's guards, in addition to the regulation of the complaint route, obliged the healer to know the emergency conditions in which he must not interfere. Finally, let me mention only transitional and final provisions which require more detailed regulation. A significant number of these provisions further demonstrate how precise and more transparent health care arrangements are needed. The marriage proposal is before us, so it would be good to take a deep look at it and give it the opportunity to go into the further process of grinding the law. That's how we get to the modern health law. Because we believe that the government will be easier to erase with the amendments than in due course to draft a new law, we support the proposal of the law in the New Slovenia Group. When we meet health workers from various parts of Slovenia and from different levels in health care, we listen to many pessimistic comments, if nothing goes wrong, health can collapse. We can't afford to do that. For this purpose, the law was also introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms. Majda Shirca, Liberal Democracy, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u14	Essentially, what needs to be asked in the new regulation of each, and in particular in systemic legislation, is whether the new solutions are better, more meaningful and more acceptable to the community than those of the current regulation. In our group's view, the proposed solutions in this law are not consistent enough, they are not systemic enough, and they are also capping for the current regulation, and they do not, above all, bring those urgent ones, so as not to say radical changes that would make this proposal acceptable to us. I should limit myself to a few general comments. They could be pushed to the next starting point. The law brings, first of all, the centralisation of basic health care. The establishment of public institutions is transferred to the country; a similar process, as is currently the case in a culture where institutions pass through not only with institutional rights but also with ownership of state property. Such a system that goes back in time means strengthening the decision-making centre and reducing the responsibility of local actors. And the proposed centralisation reduces even the control of health services in the country. The bill also poorly regulates the area of public health and leaves out the concept of organising care for the general health of the population, that is to say awareness, education, the activities of NGOs and so on. In general, the law is not specified in such a way as to enable direct application, since it is very general and requires a number of additional regulations. Come in. The law brings a great deal of confusion into the relationship between public and private, even though the basis on which the applicant builds and where he wants to correct the current relationship is justified - at least it is concluded that the present award of concessions is rather irregular and uneven. However, the solutions presented by the proposal do not eliminate these irregularities. Health care homes and concessionaires are placed in an equivalent position, and it is essential that the award of concessions be translated primarily into the country's domain. Let me mention and, in fact, repeat today, it has already been said that a solution to Slovenian language knowledge is extremely controversial if I limit myself to at least one article. This says that it is not necessary for tax personnel to use Italian or Hungarian in national mixed areas. It only says that the health care provider in direct contact with the guardian, read to the patient, must know Slovenian, properly his activity. Who determines what is appropriate, who checks it, and by what standards, the proposer does not care. He also does not care about protecting the Slovenian language as well as the language of nationality in a controlled way; therefore he certainly proposes less restrictive solutions than those that we will treat or deal with at this meeting today. In short, the law leaves unregulated basic relationships in health care, since, I can say, particular, incomplete and possibly cosmetic way interferes with the current situation. This needs more radical changes, and we better wait for them than to accept compromises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Don't you? He's quitting. Mrs Tisovec - is he also giving up, Mr Ivan Kebrich? Mr. Kebrich has the floor. No, you're giving up the debate. Mr. Sasha Pache, he's not here. Then Mr. Franci Rokavec - not either. Mag. Janez Petty Officer, he's gone. Then I ask the Minister, if he wants a word, and at the same time welcome him, because I failed him earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, my five minutes, of course, does not allow me to define myself to what has been said. Let me say that this law is truly partisan and has weaknesses: both in what is not written in it and in what we have heard so far, it should be better, although we absolutely accept that some chapters try to solve better than they have been before. First of all, we have a problem that everyone who is partisanly encroaching on the whole area of health and writes a single law. This has proved to be true in the past, so past lawmakers have considered having one law, a health law covering such a health activity, health rights, health insurance, public health, health protection and so on. The moment we write the Health Act, of course, it seems that we have narrowly limited the scope of our law, but then we always wonder how many laws we need to write down in full what we need right now. And I'm assessing that after such a concept, we'd need three or four more. Nothing to do, but the health issue is so linked to the rights to insurance, to the implementation that - almost I hope to say - that the group of composers who feel the mission to contribute in this area should, in fact, be saved - or at least aware of the comprehensive solutions before going to a single law. If I only mention what some of you mentioned: the issue of health protection. Since this is a health law, it only touches on that part - and this is incomplete - as far as health activities are concerned. Health protection is much broader; it concerns other state departments, the requirement of a non-governmental organisation, requires the participation of individuals, and it is also necessary to create regulation in the relevant law - not just as the law has been so far - and also this law does not derogate, only at the declaration level stressed the need for individuals to take care of health. In fact, health is still, even under this law, only a cure for the disease. The second concept - because I'm sure I'm running out of time. Look, we have major problems with institutions as institutions in this country and we don't have a new law on institutions. This law literally calls for, at least for health institutions, after all, these rarely remain institutions, to put in place a modern concept for the management of the institution. The case that has been heard today in this Chamber as a centralisation; after all, it is not centralisation if you transfer sole responsibility to the country with the rule of loss, with a general lack of money for investment. Remember, however, that even after this concept, the country does not actually have proper control over implementation. The councils of the institutions, as recorded today, although many of them have the majority of the countries on paper, are in fact influenced by local members, which is, of course, correct; only then, there must also be responsibility for business on that side. The councils of the institutions are now acting in some way to the benefit of the performers and not to the benefit of the inhabitants of a particular region, who should be able to rent the whole health. In short, the modernisation of the concept of the institution to accept that our institution, which we have transferred from the previous country, accepts this challenge in the country that has adopted the market system, is important. I would just add that, of course, certain solutions are written only on the skin of individual interests - increased powers of the Chamber, which are, of course, contrary to the professional definitions themselves of other professional societies. Because my light's flashing, I'd end it. We believe that this law is too partisan, too superficial, too repairing or trying to fix, and that some things are even corrupt, and that is why it is not appropriate to continue in other readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. However, it is explained that it would not now be an impression that we are restricting the government in the debate. You asked for five minutes yourself. If you demanded 10, you'd get 10. The drafter of the law also has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u18	Your Honor! Some of the concerns were mentioned, which, of course, as a representative or the first to be signed by the applicants, I would like to explain or answer them somehow. Several speakers mentioned the issue of Slovenian language knowledge. We believe that this issue needs to be addressed differently in the case of healthcare professionals, co-workers, and otherwise in the case of doctors. The doctor’s knowledge is supposed to be resolved by the medical service law, and so is somehow in most other countries of the European Union. Surely, though, this article is also ripe for any amendment. Next, with respect to partisanism and the Minister's statement. Certainly, Mr Minister has a wide range of problems in mind, but in no way is one such law as the Health Act able to solve them. We already have a number of health laws, each one of us doing it our own way. The problem of a new approach to institutions is mentioned. It's probably gonna be a law on institutions, maybe some kind of law on health institutions. Our ambition was not to solve the entire health problem, but was to be resolved by the Health Act. I would also point out that the law was particularly desirable: the application of the principles of the public health service network, the principles imposed by the national healthcare programme and thereby improving access to health; further, the regulation of an irregular relationship in primary health care to health care institutions, health care homes, concessionaires and the like. But with such a fragmentation of the congregations, we could not really help ourselves or find another solution; if you, Mr. Minister, found it, you would be very happy. Certainly, the law provides for the possibility that this institution’s right to basic health should be transferred to those congregations that are capable of doing so, namely, the city’s municipalities, or perhaps future regions. But it is certainly impossible for them to be founders of, say, five small congregations - we know what it's like to have a child if there's a lot of grandmothers. Well, there is still an organisational need to stabilise public health care and, of course, improve working conditions. I think that in this law, however, we have laid some groundwork on the definition of activity at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels and thus have allowed later some sub-legislative provisions to be established, not only with regard to horizontal clinical pathways, as is now being tried at the secondary level to be established or defined - it is said, where the course of a particular diagnosis or patient with a particular problem will be known - but also to establish principles and definitions of clinical vertical pathways - that is, from the primary to the tertiary level. That, I think we did it. Furthermore, of course, it was also a desire to recognise and frame medicine within those frameworks to ensure that healthcare for citizens is safe. I believe that the law would be worth further consideration, although I would certainly need a lot more debate and supplementation, so there is also a proposed regular procedure and time for discussion, but I personally do not pretend to be supported by members of government parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. As we can see, we still have 70 minutes, a little less. So I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? We'd go straight for it. Mrs. Tisovic. Anyone else? Because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u21	Just a moment, ma'am. Yes, Mr. Gasparini. Anyone else, please? Mr. Brenčich. Because we are now taking the names of those who want to debate after this new practice, and then there is no second round; I would therefore point out that there would be no offense then. And time is still limited to five minutes. Mr. Secretary, of course, too. So, we're done here. Thus, we have five speakers and would now go in order: those who have not yet debated, and then in order. Well, if I've recorded it correctly, Mr Gasparini has the first word. Here you go. [[Five minutes is still the limit]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dr. Knockat, I'm reading what you wrote. You wrote in Article 54 that the doctor does not need to know Italian and Hungarian. Mr Brenčič gave the case the day before yesterday that an old woman, a sick woman who comes to a foreign doctor from the European Union who does not speak Slovenian, will not be able to agree and agree with him. Now - I don't know - an Italian woman and an 80-year-old woman who is sick comes to a Slovenian doctor who doesn't speak Italian. And you know how these two languages are protected, it's not just constitutional. All municipalities, suburban, coastal, have in their statutes what is required of workers working in the public sector. At the hospital of Izola, for example, they must have a Italian course if they want to occupy a city - not just a doctor and do not get confused now that this will be regulated in the medical service law. No! No! It must be all the workers who work, who come in contact with the patient, as you say, the guards - what a protector is, I don't know. Well, they need to know Italian or Hungarian. That's the first thing. Secondly, if you think that if we transfer basic health care to the country, and I understand this as centralisation, excuse me, Minister, I think it's pure centralisation. This won't be yours - I agree that we haven't arranged out ambulances, health homes as we should. But that's not gonna get rid of anything. Absolutely nothing! Maybe there's a way out of the country. There's a way out. And we're already talking about the problem of primary and secondary health care being something that governs the landscapes. It's possible, and I think it's better than putting everyone in the Ministry of Health. I don't think it would be good. I will not personally support this marriage. Because of the particular dowry, I think this thing needs to get out of this. I still advocate official medicine, even though we know how it is in Europe. So, there are things that don't go. But it is necessary to repair this old law, but not in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u23	Mrs Tisovic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. When I listened to the Minister and then the Members and Members of Parliament on the issue of this law, I heard the Minister that marriage was necessary. He is needed and the government is actually in charge of drafting the law. However, since it has been dragging on for so long, a group of Members has tabled their own law. Now, if you think this is such a shitty foundation - when are you going to prepare a new foundation for this law? Because, as we know, both in hospitals, at the primary level and at the secondary level of health care, there are problems, they call for solutions, but when I listened to Members and Members of Parliament, they mainly addressed the problems of this bill at such points that they could actually correct themselves with amendments. I therefore ask the Minister what his opinion is on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to say that I am somehow positively surprised or have a good feeling after the performance of Mr Minister. Of course, perhaps a little less with his conclusion, but I think that a rather positive attitude has shown up to the content that this law wants to resolve, and this is certainly from the minister, as a man who is somehow the throne of politics that the ministry is planning, a good sign or a good contribution to this law. I am also firmly convinced that Article 54 is mandatory to be completed in the procedure. At the very least, as will be the case with the legislation or attitude on this issue, the law on the exercise of health professions for members of the European Union. However, I would like to say just a few words that relate to the issue of the basic health network. Surely every honor and recognition goes to the mayors and municipalities who take the institution as a responsibility. But when I was approached by a number of health home directors who are doctors of general practice and directors - with what pain they only solve the ongoing maintenance of the facility. With what pain they somehow manage from what the system gives them on the team and in other areas, to save those necessary money to maintain the building, the facility in this state and, ultimately, the equipment that allows the activities of that minimum condition to be successful. In this case, I say, but I know that among them are also such municipalities that I know, which in fact are probably unable to maintain one object built with self-contribution, we have built it, the quality of the construction, the quality of the embedded materials, the installations were just as they were, and that this municipality is not in a position to do all the obligations up to the so-called primary and genuine duties it has. Therefore, I think that this area should be strongly debated in the follow-up procedure and the arguments put forward to resolve the dilemmas. However, I know that the situation, as it is now, for some health homes or, as I say, for some areas of basic activity is unsustainable. If this law is given the opportunity to face the second treatment of the parent’s working body, it will certainly be possible to obtain the right solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u28	Members of Parliament, for a few comments I had not been able to make before. In this Parliament, as well as elsewhere, there is a controversial debate on what centralisation in the area of financing, centralisation in the area of financing, centralisation in the area of responsibility, control and implementation would mean. This is a fundamental systemic issue. In principle, if I were to respond to the Member States, this law is also relatively difficult for us to write. Not because we wouldn't know, but because this country hasn't responded to some of the systemic things yet with other laws. I've already mentioned one area of institutions as such. If we are to regulate the field of institutions in such a way that they are commercially, economically efficient, we need to combine responsibility, implementation and responsibility at the same location. In the case of basic health care, of course, there is regulation, there is a health policy, there are certain forms of supervision, but there is no way that we cannot technically agree that the healthcare institution would be in the same direction as the whole world now denies, a command from above and the enforcement of orders to a region that has different health needs in primary health care. And these different health needs from region to region must be articulated in the region. What I heard today is just a problem of funding. However, you need to know that most health funding does not go through the state budget at this time. That's why, of course, as a minister, I try to make more of it. But that most are financed, including amortization, at the health care institution and it is only right that it stays there. The second thing that systematically does not solve this law, but it will have to, is the issue of ownership, which we have been asking ourselves for 10 years. We don't even have this time of cleared notion of what private property is, public property, what property is, we're going to have to answer that question. Third thing, the way health workers work as self-employed in the system. At this moment, we have a relatively regular system that creates dissatisfaction between the public and private sectors with concessions. I think it is necessary to think very carefully and take into account the solutions from the world in order to bring together all these healthcare professionals, who are all in the public health network with few exceptions. But this moment, also due to imperfect legislation, this problem remains open and creates problems. So I would just say that these are systemic issues that we want to solve and that we need to solve even with the help of other sources, with theories that are just saying that this country will have to answer that. My reply to Mrs Members is, like the Health Insurance Act, that we are trying to come up with our own solutions by the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much. And Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. In this second part, there were quite a few comments on the establishment and problem of the establishment of basic health care. Look, the fact that the municipality is now the founder is the basis, as Mr Minister has pointed out, for a way of financing. This means that for all the basic, building, maintenance, material costs of this title, as well as equipment, the founder is responsible, in a particular case, the municipality - a small municipality which must provide funds. Based on this ideology and the establishment of municipalities, the team gets, say, general medicine, doctor, nurse and so on, with power supplies worth amortizing for the entire year 789,000 tolars - 789,000 tolars! Calculate how much it is to maintain the building, the equipment, how much it is for investment maintenance, and what the congregation will do when these homes start to collapse, and they are already collapsing. That is why the state will have to do something. We are, as I said at the end of the day, when my word was taken away or when my time was up, certainly I am not pretending to support the law, but, see, in February 2001, it is said, a year and a half, almost two years ago, when we discussed the law on the use of genetic technology in this National Assembly, that law also contained a chapter on genetic investigations and human genetic treatment, an extremely important chapter, an extremely important content. And that chapter was best prepared in that law, best prepared, that's what everyone recognized, and of course it was eliminated. At that time, a decision was taken, with the consent of the Minister and with the promise that the decision would be carried out, as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that in this year" in 2001 "presents a proposal for a law on the field of genetic investigation and human genetic treatment". One year will soon come from what has not been fulfilled. However, since I consider the opposition task a serious matter, and we also wanted the signatories to cooperate constructively, we went with a proposal, not criticism, with a proposal. We have offered, we have done our part, you will reject it, but now the criticism will be repeated - when will be the marriage, what is with what is with the previous law and so on. Mr. Mario, we've done our job. I myself am well aware of the health problems, especially basic health care, of the work in the infirmary, of the Secretary-General of the Medical Chamber, of the title when I was director of the healthcare home, and of other matters, I am well aware of these problems. The problems are deepening these ten years, deepening and screaming for solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. [[A voice from behind.]] I'm afraid not. [[A voice from behind.]] We can, because we have one here I must warn you that, of course, common sense has its weight in this house and this room, but there is one danger called a case-by-case case. [[...]] We have this moment of non-conflict session, where there are not many conflicting debates, replicas and so on. For the next month we will have on the agenda some rather difficult laws that will require a lot of skills to somehow end the session and, of course, also to comply with the rules of the game. If we break the rules now in a non-conflict session, you will refer to them at the next meeting and then no more rules of procedure will help us. Unfortunately, I must do as we have agreed, as it is written down and I am concluding the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, the assembly will vote in the afternoon in the framework of the vote of the assembly, if I may only remind you, at 14.15. I'm breaking this agenda. We'll continue at 12 o'clock. I thank the Minister for taking the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u32	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Government, we proceed with our work and move on to 15. At the end of the day, that's the first defensive proposal for a law restricting the consumption of alcohol. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of eleven Members, with the first-signed France Tsukjati, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. First, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill to the Minister of Health. Dr. Dusan Keber, please, you have five minutes to elaborate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you, Madam President, Members and Members of Parliament. Unlike before you, the law has already had a very broad public debate. I could hope to say that, in a substantial part, there is also a relative debate in this House when we discussed the advertising of alcohol this year. The fundamental dilemmas of whether we can regulate this area, controversy, lobbyist activities and, ultimately, coalition coordination have also led us to believe that the law before you, which was once declared a compromise option, is still, after other wages, almost as a prohibition option in the field of alcohol consumption. The basis for this law is, in fact, double. We draw from the experience of the Smoking Restrictive Act, which we believe has helped reduce the number of smokers by one third in the last seven years, along with other measures in this country. The purpose of this law is in fact identical. By law, we want to contribute to reducing the consumption of pure alcohol per capita, reducing the number of minors who do not drink alcohol, and, of course, also reducing the proportion of adults who drink alcohol in a way that poses a risk both to them and to the surrounding family. However, we also want to achieve a reduction in the negative consequences of harmful alcohol use, such as mortality, disease, injury and poisoning, directly linked to alcohol, reduction of traffic accidents and, of course, a significant reduction in the social and economic burden caused by alcohol to individuals and society as a whole. The law actually has two parts. One part consists of measures to prevent the harmful effects of alcohol use, where the Ministry of Health, as a bearer of the Ministry, in cooperation with other competent ministries, institutions, experts, non-governmental organisations, will prepare two-year implementation programmes with measures to limit the use of alcohol. Preventive education programmes and measures are expected to create conditions for professional and financially supported preventive work at the population level. The measures to limit alcohol consumption, this part limiting the use of alcohol, are best known to you, have also been most frequently presented to the public, are aimed at almost exclusively at young people up to the age of eighteen, because direct and indirect sales and supply are prohibited and certain restrictions on the location and time of the sale of alcohol, the aim of reducing the availability of alcohol or the opportunity for young people to have alcohol. I'm thinking about the nighttime sale in particular. In the law, as you know, we have eliminated in coordination some key items that could constitute discrimination against individual sales sites, such as selling at petrol pumps, which I must say, we regret that the petrol pump is in a symbolic way linked to traffic, accidents, but nevertheless the petrol pump is also registered as a store. In terms of the legislation in question, this would constitute discrimination against these places of sale. The law also provides for adequate supervision. Four bodies or institutions are involved in supervision, health inspectorate, market inspectorate, the Slovenian Education and Sports Inspectorate and the police. We are aware of the fact that such a law does not work with prohibitions. However, we believe that the law, like the Cadillac law, would contribute to the climate among our citizens, establish some new standards, some values, so that it will not work through its sanctions and prohibitions, but that it will simply change the habits and behaviour of at least part of the population over the years, which must recognize that alcohol is one of the fundamental, in some opinions, even the fundamental health problem in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented to us by Mrs Danica Simšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General. The law before us is far more important than judging by its scope, since it does not even count as many as 20 articles. It is a law that defines the consumption of another, of two in Slovenia permitted drugs. One is tobacco and we have been in our country for six years to restrict the use of tobacco products. This was a law that greatly aroused spirits in the then composition of parliament and government, as well as in the general public. Today, however, we can say calmly that in our lives he has brought a different view of smoking, both in private life and in public spaces in particular. Although much will have to be done, it is certainly much easier to breathe now. In the Parliamentary Group of the United List of Social Democrats, we attach, at least, a much greater importance to the application of the second law in Slovenia than to the so-called tobacco law. We believe that the law is necessary and that its acceptance is in fact the responsibility of any serious State that cares for the physical, mental and social health of its people. Estimates say that in Slovenia more than a third of all people feel the negative effects and suffer the consequences of excessive alcohol consumption. This does not mean, of course, that in Slovenia there is a third of all alcoholics. These are estimated to be between 150 and 200,000. It means that if this, as we often call it, the most unrelenting social illness affects only the lowest family members and the average Slovenian family has three members, thus suffering more than half a million citizens and citizens of Slovenia. The truth needs to be added that this is usually not just about the closest family members but about a much wider circle of people. What irreparable damage is happening to us is already a summary of only a few data accompanying this law in the parliamentary procedure. Because of the causes directly attributed to alcohol, about 520 people over the age of 15 die each year, who on average lost 12 years of their lives. Alcohol is bottling more than a third of all suicides in Slovenia; otherwise, Slovenia, with more than 600 suicides per year, is at the infamous World Summit. People who lost their lives because of traffic accidents, who are encouraged by excessive alcohol consumption, either as a cause or as a victim, were on average deprived for almost three decades of their lives. More than a third of our ten-year-olds have been drinking alcohol. Well, and even so, I could list the horrifying data. However, let me briefly say, in the UK Group of Social Democrats we support the basic solutions to the bill's proposal, this is that the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages is allowed only to people over 18 years of age; to limit the consumption of alcohol in shops at night, i.e. from 9 a.m. to 7 a.m. We also agree with the solution that the sale of spirit drinks is allowed after 10.00 a.m. in the restaurant and that guests must have at least two non-alcoholic drinks that are cheaper than the cheapest alcoholic drink. Today, of course, we often encounter instances where fruit juice or any other nonalcoholic drink is significantly more expensive than the alcoholic beverage offered. We also support solutions that do not allow the use of alcohol in educational and health institutions and sports facilities, both during and immediately before sports events. And a word about sanctions. The sanctions are severe. From 500,000 to 8 million for a lawbreaker and from 250,000 to 5 million for an individual who would not comply with the provisions of this law. However, I could say that they are understandable in view of the severe and often irreparable consequences and scales of overindulgence in alcohol. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the law as a suitable basis for further parliamentary treatment. At the same time, we are aware that this is only the first serious step on the thorn, and a very long and challenging path that will reduce much tolerance for alcohol or a very positive attitude towards its overconsumption in our country. This is not just the mission of the Ministry of Health, it is the task of the government as a whole, of society as a whole, and of course of every individual among us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Alcoholism is just a difficult matter for our society. In Slovenia, we drink once more alcohol, such as the European average. Once more people die from the effects of alcohol than in the European Union. There are many causes. Many studies have already been done. There's been a lot of research done. Probably one of the reasons is a wide range of offers and relaxed advertising, perhaps. It is probably also wise to reduce the cause in this area, especially since the law also provides for measures such as information, education, awareness and the like, which we think is even more important, because the prohibition alone certainly has no major impact, especially when it comes to the growing number of people living on the threshold of poverty, because poverty is one of the first factors of alcoholism and if more and more who are dissatisfied with their social status are unhappy with depression, disappointment over life, society, the country. Surely these are the most difficult causes, but the same causes are harder to eliminate. That's why we're dealing with those who are easier to catch, but they're worth it. With regard to the individual solutions provided by law, the following comments would have to be made by the social-democracy authorities. Article 3 lists a series of measures to prevent the harmful effects of alcohol use. These measures are very well-designed, they're written, and I'm not going to say nice words. The question is, how will they be implemented? The law provides that the Ministry responsible for health, in cooperation with others, will draw up programmes, two-year programmes, limiting consumption referred to in this Article. These are programmes that include not only monitoring alcohol and harmful consequences, but also information, education and so on. The question is, how will these programs be resolved? Whether or not some of the appropriations provided under a call for proposals will be given to a tenderer and may be printed by a thousand copies, distributed through schools and waiting rooms, and his task will be accomplished. I think it will be necessary to take this seriously. I hope that's the way it's gonna be. The implementation of these programmes should be supervised by the Health Council. This is again a fictional body or body that has not yet come to life as it should. We have little doubt about the effectiveness of such control. We welcome Article 6 where there is no indication or alcohol content on the packaging. We welcome Article 7, which speaks of a ban on selling offers to under 18 years of age and to persons who show obvious signs of drunkenness from alcohol, but we believe that this should not be limited only in catering establishments, but wherever alcohol is sold. A drunk person is no longer judgmental and should be considered as such, and his requirements for the purchase of alcohol should not be taken seriously. And he can give up extra alcohol shopping. However, this article is somehow in opposition or is speaking in the same way as Article 9. See, paragraphs 7 and 9 are either not harmonised or they're saying the same thing and the same thing. It will certainly be necessary to clear this text as well. We are further wondering what the third indent of Article 12 means by establishments of public nutrition where alcohol must not be poured during working hours. These plants are practically gone. These rooms are usually dedicated to the inn. And I don't know what it is then. This is no longer a guest activity that has rented premises in a factory or elsewhere. That doesn't seem like the best way to do it. In addition, at least two non-alcoholic beverages must be sold to the seller of alcoholic beverages. I believe that this should not only apply to catering plants, but also to all sellers, including petrol pumps. In short, we have quite a few comments. The text will have to be completed, it will have to be completed. However, I believe or believe that socialdemocrats can be the basis for further consideration if appropriate amendments are adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party Slovenia will be presented to us by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The party of young Slovenia advocates the view that Slovenia needs a law on the limitation of alcohol consumption, since the consumption of alcohol per capita in Slovenia is a serious problem that we will solve only through systemic regulation such as law. This law is intended to reduce the unwelcome health, economic and social consequences of drinking alcohol, both in individuals and in society. In particular, this means reducing injuries, including accidents in traffic, violence, vandalism, suicides, domestic violence and crime. Here we must stress that the law also offers a reduction of the unwanted consequences of the indirectly involved victims who do not drink alcohol. By successfully implementing the law in practice, we will also be able to reduce the use of resources for health care and to address the social issues arising from the use of alcohol. The party of young Slovenia supports all laws that offer better quality of life for Slovenians, but we believe that a proposal for a law or some of its articles will still need to be considered thoroughly, as shown by the very examination of the law in the National Assembly. In the case of the law or its articles, we propose further reflection on programmes and promotions of a healthy lifestyle, since the law should not be based on the prohibition of the sale of alcohol, but on awareness, education and education, especially of young people, as it will only be possible to raise responsible individuals who will also respect restrictions. With bans and restrictions, we will only achieve the opposite effect and the problem will remain or will be given new dimensions. We must not forget that every prohibition creates a new alternative that is even worse. The Slovenian Youth Party notes that the explanation of the law does not show how the State, the Ministry of Health, will provide the necessary resources for the implementation of the law, both for the functioning of the Alcohol Policy Council, which will coordinate the implementation of the individual activities, as well as for the operators themselves, the market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the health inspectorate and the police. There are also no clearly defined means for the development and implementation of health promotion programmes or education programmes on the effects of alcohol use. The Law on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption will, in practice, achieve its purpose if it establishes control over the implementation of the law in practice and if there are no similar problems as in the implementation and control of the law on the restriction of the consumption of tobacco products. At the same time, the success of the law is also conditioned by the functioning of the budget fund for the promotion of healthy life or the development and implementation of programmes for the promotion of health and public education on alcohol harmfulness. In the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we will achieve the objectives of the bill mainly by creating options for different forms of evidence for young people. Various areas for out-of-school activities, sports activities, youth centres, and so we will also indirectly influence their values. Otherwise, the adoption of the existing proposal for an alcohol law with its limitations will achieve only the inverse effect of the desired. Consumers will start encouraging the production of less quality and cheaper products, creating an unsupervised and tax-extinguishable market. However, these reverse effects will not eliminate the underlying problem of alcohol use, but will make the problem more complex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. We certainly welcome the purpose and purpose of the law in our parliamentary group. This is certainly a socially beneficial and necessary act, and this is especially true if the measures provided for by the law have any preventive or curative effect on the improvement of the situation, especially in the young population. Moreover, it is certainly expected that we will reduce absintheism or absence of work to some extent with the purpose of law, which can also have a positive impact on the macroeconomic situation in the country. Surely, however, we cannot ignore the fact that the excessive consumption of alcohol in our society is also linked to a whole range of other causes, which certainly cannot be affected by this law in particular, but will certainly have an impact and impact on this subject in the broad sphere of social life at all times, a relationship that will improve the situation. But there is something to be said. The penalties are certainly not small, but they are necessary. In particular, their implementation will also need to be monitored. Therefore, it is necessary to specify matter in a number of statutory provisions, both in a formal and significant manner, so that it will not be a dilemma, when a measure is possible and when the measure given was correct or that a measure in practice will also be somehow understood as provided for in the law. This, however, can be done in a second reading, and we therefore support that the law gets the green light, that it goes to a constructive discussion already at the parent working body in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group is to be presented by Mr Saša Peče, who is not. I therefore give the floor to Mrs Ana Maria Tisovic to present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello, Mr. Secretary, and all my colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group supports that the proposal for a law on the limitation of alcohol consumption is dealt with on a regular basis with the general debate. The general debate will certainly bring positive additions to this law. In the Republic of Slovenia we have several laws that contain certain decisions on alcohol. However, the field of alcohol restriction is not fully regulated. We want to have a quality law, a law that, together with other measures, is intended to help reduce alcohol consumption and reduce the consequences of excessive and improper alcohol use. In the Nova Slovenija Group, we support people under the age of 18 who do not sell alcoholic beverages, because we know that the life of an adolescent from the age of 15 to 18 is a very sensitive time. If a youth acquires a beer habit at this age, the first opportunity prevention programme is already missed. The aim, which is extremely important in the prevention programme against alcoholism, is also to take into account the conditions that create a sense of danger for certain groups of people suffering from persistent problems, problems that are conditioned by irregular relationships and so on. Therefore, more attention should also be paid in this area to reducing alcohol addiction in Slovenia. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that we are all aware of the heavy burden of alcoholism for the whole society. The consequences of alcoholism are complex because it is not only an individual that is affected, but also life - travelers, children, and others. The treatment of alcoholics and health problems due to overindulgence in alcohol is expensive, so in solving the problem of alcohol addiction in addition to the adopted Act on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption, we must seek and address the causes in the primary environment, namely poverty, hopelessness and the like. Since the work of civil society has almost died in our country, this has become a policy issue. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group does not only support the law because it is too small, but also supports groups of people and programmes dealing with alcohol addiction cause and not only symptomatically. Marriage can also be a good basis for changing people’s thinking. Drinking should no longer be worth it, as young people like to call it, "cool" but to begin to realize that addiction to alcohol is already a path that leads to the collapse of personality. Preventive programmes should also address gaps in education and education. To my knowledge, only in rare schools do they devote themselves to raising awareness of alcohol addiction and its harmful effects. Also, the culture of drinking needs to be introduced to young people and older citizens through them. The next thing you'd like to know is alcohol excises. By introducing value added tax, we have introduced a system in which it is more or less relevant to what activity the economic operator is engaged in, as they will ultimately be taxed at the same rate to the service and the traffic of their goods. The introduction of excise duties on certain products violates this principle. Of course, collecting excise duties at relatively low costs is an opportunity for an integrated budget to increase tax revenues. If excise duties were collected in a special account, this money would be used to finance the treatment of alcohol addiction and diseases resulting from excessive alcohol consumption and preventive programmes, these excise duties would be reasonable and morally justified. Until this is done, excise duty is intended only to increase tax revenue but not to reduce the consumption of these products. We are also advocating real criminal sanctions. We must also ensure order and discipline in the implementation of these sanctions. If in America, where they watch everything through money, as we like to say, they do it because the owner of the place can be punished there so high that it is not worth it, they can also close the place down, why can't they exercise such discipline with us. The money to be recovered should also be collected in an account intended for prevention and for the treatment of alcohol addiction. Since this is a general debate, I have allowed myself, on behalf of the Group of Members, to show a large problem of excessive alcohol consumption in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u45	Dear, distinguished Minister! There are few who, on initiatives to limit the beer habits of the Slovenians with the law, believe that this is an approach or that such an approach can have very relative effects, if, who wants to drink, will do so, whether or not the law allows it to do so. Under this view, sometimes there is also some particular and capital interest of those affected by legal regulation that may be uncomfortably limited. In this sense, the initial concepts of legal limitation prepared by the Ministry - I am speaking of course of concepts - have already been distorted, or perhaps somewhat, if I mention, for example, the intensities of the ban on the sale of alcoholic beverages at gas stations. In this sense, we can even say that the proposed law is still too restrictive. After all, sustainability is excessive, I stress excessive drinking, a value indicator of an informed society. However, the paths to awareness are long, certainly entangled in tradition, in social, social and other contexts. In short, it is not only by increasing the number of inspectors to be raised, but it is also necessary to do so in other ways. In this respect, of course, it is right that the proposed law offers the possibility of such strategic pathways. Otherwise, other countries are breaking down in alcohol-restricting solutions, as they are applying different ways depending on their awareness. Our version, which we are facing today, will go in the direction of limiting the most vulnerable, that is, the adolescents, and the upper limit to 18 years, it certainly makes sense. The time limit for sales in evening, night and early hours is also appropriate. The space ban is justified, preventative, awareness-raising and evaluation as well. Surveillance is essential, and marriage is also essential, for the marriage to be brought to life. However, the possible intersection and responsibilities of three inspectorates should be reconsidered, namely, health, marketing and schooling, as set out in the bill. Perhaps even re-examine financial evaluation in particular to avoid doubts, I stress, in the absence of doubts, that the solutions proposed bring too much wealth to the employment of counselors at the Ministry or doctors in the relevant health institutions. From a systemic point of view, the solution, perhaps even controversial, is to draw not only from the State budget but also from excise duties on alcohol and alcohol. I am not talking about a conceptual but a system-wide solution that could be contrary to the principle of an integrated budget. Of course, I think that the law, at least on the part of the parliamentary group, will be able to experience only possible adjustments of the nomotechnical nature, because we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. This work is followed by a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr Joseph Jerovšek, the first to be notified, who is not. That's why I give my word to Mr. France Rokavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice President! Dear Mr. Secretary! Dear Members and Members! In opening, I would like to say that I fully support the proposal for a law on the restriction of the use of alcohol, with some comments which I think are probably still very important in order to have them examined. To begin with, I expect that the law would in fact be based on a smaller number of prohibitions in the final phase, and above all on this concept, to pay greater attention to public awareness of the risk of excessive alcohol use, both for individuals and for the country and society as a whole. However, when reviewing the draft articles of the law, we cannot go beyond some of the doubts that appear to me in the writing of the articles. In fact, I am wondering, for example, in Article 7, which states that the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages is prohibited for persons under the age of 18. I'll give you an example. If we stick to - and if the law is passed, it must be kept in full and respected - how it will react in the case of a trader or a market inspector, if, for example, a 17-year-old person, must be sufficiently informed, for the domestic needs of his home, it is called parents and, of course, those families, to go shopping to the store and, for example, buy a litre of rum, or less. Indeed, in such a case, only full - time persons or, in this case, explicitly, only parents will be able to obtain this alcoholic drink, for example, intended exclusively for household purposes. The second question is raised in Article 9, which is probably even more difficult. It says: “Alcoholic beverages are forbidden to be sold or offered to persons who can be presumed to be transferred to persons under 18 years of age in catering establishments, as well as to persons who show obvious signs of drunkenness.” A very large task, but very poorly specified in this record, for example, is whether it will be a innkeeper or a merchant or, on the other hand, a market inspector or police officer who has identified the person who is the intermediary. It's not an easy matter. In all these cases, there is a lack of sub-legislative implementing rules which are not actually contained in this law at the moment. The next question is likely to be the issue of different treatments in the 10th article of trade and of innkeepers or innkeepers. In the case of shops, it is allowed to sell alcoholic beverages from 7 a.m. on, in the case of inn restaurants. So, those who want to get to the alcohol will come to the bar instead of coming to the diner, they'll come to the store. There may also be some questions or doubts about Article 13. The State explicitly states that a restaurant must have a non-alcoholic drink, which is cheaper than an alcoholic drink, that is probably another direction and that there are probably other measures where the country at the level of the economy and its incentives, for which it is able, should encourage how non-alcoholic beverages will be cheaper. Today, many of us have witnessed instances where it can be significantly cheaper to get alcoholic beverages than nonalcoholic beverages, and they are more expensive for the user. I think that this is an essential direction, which is probably lacking in the overall implementation of the concept, how to actually reduce over-consumption and consumption of alcoholic beverages in our country and, on the other hand, increase the drinking culture in a sense that is actually useful for the needs of an individual. So much for a little while. I expect that the law in the second and third readings will experience these positive developments and will actually contribute to the goal of starting to reduce excessive alcohol consumption and all the negative consequences in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Kebric, who is not among us, is next notified, and neither is Saša Pečeta. That's why Mr. Aloys Sok has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u49	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members and Members! I myself have a slightly different opinion on this law and on other similar laws than I could have heard from the presentation of the parliamentary groups. I am not sure that the problem the minister was talking about is the problem of alcoholism in one country, to be resolved by such and similar law that is now on the table before us. I come from a historical fact that we are all familiar with: the countries that had practically legal full prohibition actually had the most alcoholics. So if you're banning something, you're creating quite the opposite. What's forbidden is moving, and after that, people like to intervene. That the problems caused by alcoholism are much deeper than the offer itself or the opportunity. It is true that we have a river in Slovenia that says that the opportunity makes a thief, but I think that this problem is a much broader and deeper problem. I come from the wine-growing area and from some statistics, which, of course, always work outside these areas, always somewhere in Ljubljana, it turns out that alcoholism is the most present in these areas. But I don't think it's because of a lot of offers. In these areas, the social situation in this country is also the worst. People live in difficult social conditions. People are neglected, often bullied, without rights, and many times when they actually work from morning to evening, then they look for comfort in what is near, and that is alcohol and alcoholic beverages. And there are these essential problems and the reasons for the situation. Slovenia can certainly not be a model with its specific characteristics and its vineyards, where a law would be passed on to this area from Finland, Sweden or Norway, is said to be from countries where there are no vineyards. Slovenia needs to find its own way here, some way of dealing with this issue and actually create one of its own situations. Thus, we can compare ourselves with countries such as Italy, France, Portugal. If we compare ourselves with these countries, then we can find that in Slovenia, consumption of wines per capita is no greater than in these countries. The Minister initially said that the starting point for this law was actually a good experience of the smoking law and stated that the number of smokers had decreased by one third. I don't know which data you can actually show it with. Personally, I don't know anyone who would stop smoking because of the law. But I do know a lot of people who stopped smoking at a time when there were medical problems. I don't even know what this marriage brought. That we wrote on every pack of cigarettes that the Minister counsels smoking because it is harmful to health that we divided the guest rooms with some moving walls into two and said "in this part, smokers sit, in this part non-smokers" or that we made special smoking houses, schools and so on through various institutions. I don't know. But it's true that the excise law has brought a lot into the state budget. [[...]] That's right. And the same thing happens to wine. I think we are a country in Europe that has the highest excise duty on wine. Toseveda, on the other hand, means one difficult position for Slovenian winegrowers. It is just that the vine has probably been transferred to these places by the Romans and that this vine has been caught and that many people are involved and are living on it. However, by such and similar measures, of course today we are reducing the prospects for Slovenian vineyarders. I also asked Minister Booth about this at the beginning of this meeting on Monday, when I presented to him the difficult situation of Slovenian wine growing. I think it's one of the hardest years since 1901, when the reed ears destroyed 80 percent of Slovenian vineyards. A similar situation is taking place at the moment. For the third year in a row, large quantities of quality wine remain unsold through our cellars. We've got a new rich wine crop ahead of us. A new wine disease has emerged, destroying the vine largely. And when the minister answered me and practically agreed with all these problems, he also pointed out to you, Minister Keber, and said: "With such and similar laws we put everything in the same basket and make this situation worse in Slovenia". Look at the magnetogram and you'll see. I do not know if such measures and such receptions are well thought out. I do not know if an increase in the tax rate on the quality of wines is appropriate for this Slovenian economy. This law is supposed to allow different, I don't know, commissions or how it is written in the law to engage in preventive programmes. These preventive programmes can be implemented now that we do not have a law. I think it's possible. It is true that we have completely disabled civil society institutions through politics in this country and that these institutions do not work many times. But if the country had a hearing about the functioning of various civil society institutions, these programmes could be implemented in many ways. I would like to remind you that Anton Martin Slomšek has already written and taught about drinking culture, about wine as food and so on. And what happened? For even or half a century, we left Slovenian schools. He simply experienced the fact that our youth had never been allowed to know about his views over 150 years ago. So here I would like to present this concept of the education of our school, which does not raise values. And if you're saying in this explanation that young people need to be protected from the negative effects of alcohol, I'd just expand it. They must also be protected against the negative effects of drugs, they must be protected against the negative effects of pornography, and they must be protected from the effects of crime shown by our TV programs. And I could also mention it, but above all it would be necessary in this country to protect the family as the base cell of this society. In this liberally oriented space, however, the family has become completely worthless. In fact, all the problems that occur in young people stem from some subset, which is first caused in their own family, and then, of course, spread widely to youth. And here, the honourable Minister, as a member of the government, as well as we parliamentarians, should do much more if we would like to see the situation in the field of addiction, what we are talking about today, change alcohol in this country, that I will not be misunderstood and that no one will think that I advocate alcohol and alcoholism. However, as far as the articles of the law themselves are concerned, I do not believe that this law can be implemented in this way. Some of the concerns have already been raised here. I think that only the guests and all those who are dealing with this economic sector will be further affected and that only the state, if not otherwise, will benefit from this law through criminal policy. I don't know how a trader could legitimize anyone under the age of 18, because this could lead to different deviations, could lead to major problems. I don't know how it's going to work, either, that during a certain period of time, it's forbidden to sell alcoholic beverages; that's actually what we've had in this country, that's all. I don't remember when it was, but it was already in place and it didn't last long. So, after a certain period of time, they found that it could not be supervised and that it did not work, and then simply the law remained a dead letter on paper, as this law would probably remain, and in fact all the parties represented in this House agree that the law as such is necessary and good. I think that the law may be needed, but that much more will have to be done to resolve this problem than to write down the law and then to set up a service that will start with sanctions and penal policy. This does not seem to me to be a real sweat in person - this is my position - the law, unlike our parliamentary group, I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would say that basically everything that is written in this law is true, I agree with it, and it makes sense to me. However, if I mention just a few areas, such as the assessment of the situation in which we are in this area, there is probably no need for any discussion here, because we probably all agree, including with regard to the consumption of alcohol - the impact of this large consumption of alcohol, the impact on road users, our behaviour in this case, the phenomenon of dependence, when this occurs, and the review of legislation - all of this is probably true. That's why I think it's a good thing the Ministry prepared this. However, in doing so, I would say, I dare say, perhaps I could say, that the dokihot attempt to limit alcohol consumption is a whole lot of questions and concerns, but if I start in a row, I won't be too long. The law foresees things that I think are already regulated in other laws, at least as far as I know them and as far as I'm concerned. This is about pouring alcohol to younger people, and I think we've already adopted this law years ago, and then the law that prohibits pouring to guilty people, and I think we already have that, as far as I can remember, we also have a law on when we can start pouring in the morning, which is that hour, alcohol or spirit drink. We've got it all. And if we re-enter the law, that means that we were not successful in implementing that law. For the law is not only to be written down, it is to be accepted, but also to be implemented and then also to oversee the implementation of this law. This is said to have failed in the implementation of such legal provisions, because otherwise we would not have to write this. That's not a criticism, I have to say that. But I just want to get to what I want to say. On the other hand, it seems to me that attempts at a frontal attack, if I can use this term, alcohol or prohibition, or in this case maybe small prohibitions, have not been successful anywhere in the world, and I will not list the experiments before 80 or 90 years across the meadow, where it is, it is not necessary, but I will only return to what I said a little earlier. That is to say, we have already adopted a law that restricts the flow of alcohol, and obviously we have not been able to get away with it. So if we're going to write it down here now, I'm not really sure if this is going to be the right thing if we're not in the second part, in the second segment, that's what it says in control, we're going to do, I don't know, something else. Although at this point I have no idea what would be possible, I would have had it, but it would have taken too much time. But apparently just writing it down on paper, it's probably not the right thing to do. Next. Article 13 of the Act refers to the fact that in-house establishments selling alcoholic beverages must have at least two non-alcoholic beverages, which are price equivalent or cheaper than the cheapest alcoholic beverages. I'd like to mention the following here. I think my colleagues have already mentioned it today, and I'm just going to back it up. The fact is, fruit juices, that's something else, a different category, like non-alcoholic beverages, we know that, but all fruit juices are more expensive than the most common alcoholic beverages, let's say beer. Allow me, when this point began, to call one of our best neighbor's stores or what it's called, a beer letter, two bottles costs 298,00 SIT and a juice letter 329,00 SIT. But now, here's the important difference, if we compare the appropriateness of the packaging, the almost-boiled packaging, if we compare the juice, is twice the difference, not just 30 or 10%, but twice the size of the bottle, because the bottle is much more suitable for use than a tetrapack or something like that. That is to say, I want to say that I may miss some measure in this sense that we would not make beer more expensive now, but that fruit juices might be cheaper or perhaps in the sense that the state would also give a tolar. I don't mean millions, or some tolar for advertising, I don't know, fruit juice. We also have domestic producers here, and they would probably do just as well, as if we were advertising something else, in this sense, if we should only have imported articles. That's why I said the homework would be fine. And probably the producers wouldn't mind. The next thing that seems important to me in this law is that we have deliberately accelerated some things ourselves. Here I think the opening of liquor bars right across from the school, on the other side of the road, the setting and opening of kiosks that pour precisely alcoholic beverages, so that during the break - mainly students can jump over the road - buy some drinks that are cheaper than fruit juice, as we have found. I don't know. I also know that the debate was that if we could just accept a provision that at least 50 m from school can't be any such place, I don't say 100 m, it's already too much. [[...]] 50 meters across from school. Perhaps it would also be one of the measures that would bear something more concrete than a frontal attack. Now perhaps a little, not a joke, but with fear of what this law will bring, that we will not now accept any more things, that we will have a third place in these restaurants, inns, smokers and non-smokers, and in those where they serve alcohol, or where they do not serve it. That could be so little for a glimpse. What bothers me, however, is that, in doing so, the legitimate concern for a moderate approach to limiting alcohol or for moderate alcohol consumption has been completely disregarded by another trend. As far as I'm aware of these modern trends, it's probably as much "full cool" to be hit by, not alcohol, but drugs. I'm sure drugs have even worse consequences than alcohol. That's not an excuse, I support it, so I'm going to support this marriage. I just want to suggest that we think about this, too, because I'm afraid of something else, a certain habit. This is also said to be an abnormal consumption of alcohol, a certain habit that we will not just exterminate immediately. But if we want any restraints, I'm afraid we'll get to the next one. Since these drugs are so much on the march, I'm afraid that where there is such a serious restriction that maybe we could just go from one evil to maybe one worse. And as I mentioned earlier, because we have contributed to this, because we have done so, I will use the conscious term “householding schools and liquor bars”, I fear that this will only lead to moving from one to the next. For example, these rover parties are fashionable. In my opinion, they are only so that sellers can [[...]] [[Warning tone.]] Ecstasy is well earned. [[...]] Therefore, I propose, just to close the sentence, that this is a proposal for a law restricting the use of alcohol and drugs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Mamić. [[He's not here.]] Neither did Mr Kramberger, nor did Mr Bernick. Mr. Minister, who has the opportunity to explain the dilemmas that have arisen between Members of Parliament and Members? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u53	Allow me, honourable Members, no, I have no intention of explaining some of the comments - some justified, some already on the repertoire - I would like to express my gratitude to today's very coherent debate supporting this law, and the comments I have heard are, in my opinion, such as to find answers in another reading. So I note that it has also penetrated Parliament's knowledge, which goes beyond the political interests of the opposition and the coalition, that in this area the law, although not a saving weapon and although we are aware of its limitations, is necessary, and I hope that in the second reading we will abolish and correct the law to be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The end of this point was scheduled at 2:15 p.m. That means that the vote of 14.13, I'm sorry, I didn't have it in front of me, 14.13. [[...]] It is said that we have quite a time ahead of us, which is still available for discussion. So I'm asking, how much longer would I like to discuss you? One, two, three, four, five, Mr. Minister - six Please, if you're so kind, all those who raised your hands to write down the names and surnames if you can raise your hand again. [[...]] All the debaters have plenty of time, five minutes. I think the order is as follows: first, Mr Gasparini, who has not yet discussed today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I would like to commend Mr Sok, of all those who debated here, because I think he was discussing it in the right way, as I would say. In fact, the law is the law, and here are the articles that we need to discuss, but what Mr Sok started is probably something that we should deal with in depth. Drinking culture in Slovenia, we know what level it is. I'll also touch Mr. Petan. He's the one who hooked up alcohol and drugs. It's okay, but I thought you were going to say something else: connect alcohol and diet. Here's the point of the problem. Why we have so many drunks in Slovenia, it's probably not only because we have good wine, but especially because we don't even know how to eat good. And here's the problem. If you look at the old Yugoslavia, then you will see that the Dalmatians drink very much and this strong wine. But they do have fish food. And there's less alcoholism here, less cirrhosis, I'm pointing to you, Mr. Minister, because he's an internist and knows these things. This is said to be a very important connection between diet and alcohol. And I think Mr. Sok has rightly pointed out that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and I think it showed that it is likely that this law will not eliminate alcoholism in Slovenia. [[...]] We should take preventive action, we should get used to cultural drinking and change our food culture. And we'd probably have achieved more than that with laws like that. I'm going to uphold the law, I have to say, because we just have to have something. If we don't know how to influence those things, let's make the marriage work, but that's not the way to do it. I agree with you, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Let me tell you in kind: Mr Drobnič, Kavtičnik, Kelemina, Mr Petan and Mr Sok. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that. Given the content of the debaters I compare, where they come from, I would say that the proposals or opinions on the law are not so much in the client programmes themselves, but probably more in the personal attitude towards alcohol, to the problems in Slovenia. However, it is nothing after all that we are talking about a law that will have consequences for Slovenia for citizens. I myself, although I have a very distant attitude toward alcohol, would say that in this law maybe this hateful approach to alcohol is too much of an emphasis. Then I would point to something that may not even be true in these studies. So it's alcohol-to-suicide interlocking. It is the interlocking between the individual’s personal structure and the decision to drink alcohol or suicide. Rather, it is a suicidal personality structure that then influences one’s decision on one another or another. Raising excise duties and inaccessibility, of course, will not likely reduce the number of users. I hope so, but I don't think so. However, it is likely to increase the pressure in those families where one or two are devoted to alcohol. This will further reduce the family budget and this will put pressure on children. It seems very important to me how the law will write down a chapter or provisions concerning young people’s access to alcohol. Here, however, we should be more consistent, clearer, sharper, for the young soul is much more susceptible to these influences. Later, when a certain addiction or life pattern occurs, however, it is no longer possible to expect a reasonable assessment of whether alcohol is involved or not. Even then, it is no longer reasonable to judge what alcohol is or whether it is quality wine with food or just wine in order to have the same effects as other substances that are even more harmful to human health. Therefore, greater emphasis would be given to education and education and good examples. This law provides for relatively small resources, in particular funds that will not cause any significant movement. It's a civil servant, and it's probably some kind of asset to a civil society. That's it. Otherwise, I, myself, will not object to the adoption of the law, but I am in favour of making it complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, my friend! I am very glad that this marriage has come to Parliament. I myself have been dealing with the problem of alcoholism among young people for a number of years, and I am sure that this problem is being addressed by all the principals, that parents and society are also dealing fully with the problem. We're here before one problem. And if we are to deal with this problem, we must also determine the ways or reasons that led to this problem. I am sure that not all the best solutions are in this marriage, but solutions are meant to be. And you, too, my fellow Members, have also indicated in this debate today, and it is right that we have spoken and it is right that we adopt such a law and, of course, show the goodwill that this problem, which is evident in Slovenia, will also be tried to solve. Culture is the result of education. So, we're raising culture. But education is a process. We know. Education starts with young people. That's why I like this marriage because it touches and treats young people. In young people, however, it is sometimes necessary to prohibit things, including certain things, so that later when they are adults they can adhere to certain rules. The custom is an iron shirt, and if we tell him something in the early days of his youth and raise him properly, then he will be able to do so. So I am optimistic and convinced that this law will take us a step closer to a drinking culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemnin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. I regret to say that I am by no means prepared to adopt this bill. In fact, my assessment is that it is a purely ordinary dispersion of money and, of course, the creation of some new additional bureaucracy. We have in this country so many diverse new institutions that grow every day like mushrooms in the rain, now perhaps more so when there was a lot of rain, it was absurd, it was absurd and we are just spending money and just looking at the state budget, how many different items there are and where we will come from. All this stuff that's here is written in this law, and I'm pretty sure that you could do school, and the press could write about these things every day in the newspapers, if that were the case, in all the newspapers, in all the magazines -- why don't they write, why don't they write? Why aren't they doing this? They're paid. I don't know who. Why don't they do it? Then all the other measures written here would be exactly the same, and the existing institutions could, according to my assessment, implement them. I'm 100 percent that I could. I'm not saying certain prohibitions aren't necessary. I'm sure they are. I agree to ban this, that one, that other, that third. Well, if there's any effect, it's a question. It's a question of if there's gonna be an effect. We know that, of course, we will not prevent this, but if we may make a little or a little contribution to reducing it, I doubt it. Certainly not because anyone who wants to will find other ways to get to this alcoholic drink, especially young ones. That's a fact. Don't worry about them coming and buying at the right time. They're not that stupid if they can't do it tonight or whatever or anywhere else. So the basic is education, and from the smallest to the oldest, if you want, it's still a warning and so on and in school it's necessary to do so. The second is what has already been said, poverty is the greatest woe of this country, which is probably caused by my assessment of most of this aspiration or some sort of dependence on alcohol. Because it is easy for people who are desperate for another to do more than reach out for alcohol, it is simply to relieve themselves of all the problems they face each day. So I would just say that, in my opinion, it is possible to do all this in other ways, perhaps with the same measures as are prescribed here, through other institutions. But look at just one example. That's how I raised my kids. Today, when you're seventeen, eighteen years old, when I'm going to an event, because you know that there's no way to get a drink in there without it, they tell me when I'm on my way, don't drink. When I don't drink, I don't walk around drunk, but, "but don't drink." I'm not, I said, you know I'm not. They warn me at the age of seventeen, eighteen, because I've been raising them since I was a kid, warning them and teaching them what it means, what the situation is, what the families are, what the horrors are all about, and I don't know, maybe I'll ever have to pick them up off the road and they'll get into this depression, and maybe they'll reach out to these things, but I'm just trying to do what I thought was my duty. So, something has to be done on this segment. If we don't do this, no law will help us. That's my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. All I could explain was what I couldn't do before because I was running out of time. So, I mentioned earlier this coexistence of schools and alcohol, which we have in fact allowed ourselves to open, consciously open houses against schools. But I would say that it is similar or even worse to interact between schools and drugs, because drug dealers -- so we can read in all the daily media -- are already appearing in schools. So this is a much worse problem than alcohol. Therefore, my proposal that the proposer consider extending the draft law, which is called the proposed alcohol restriction law, to "and drugs". Because drugs are no longer such a rare thing, such an innocent thing, and we should be serious about them. If we were to pursue one evil, which certainly is alcohol, and so I said that I would support this law, then we must begin to think more seriously about the problem of drugs. And that's coming from another point of view. In fact, I mentioned earlier these raver parties, where there is a true absurdity: we had deaths due to the use of synthetic drugs that are enjoying themselves at these raver parties, but there have been some charities - okay - who do not warn these participants that the use of these drugs is dangerous, harmful or even worse, but they have appeared to be pouring water there, which means that you can survive that heat wave or blow you get instead of one pill two or instead of two three. And that's unacceptable. I think, given the deaths that they were, the ministry would, however, or the government would have to, if it had already prepared this law, which, as I said, I support, extend it to drugs as well and warn not only how you survive that blow, but how you defend yourself from it not even coming to it. It is said, also against drugs, and I am sure that only this law, as it is written, that five plus five of these people, five experts and five inspectors, will probably be difficult, not that they won't be able to, but it will be difficult to fix all this. And I agree with those who said that this restriction on the consumption of alcohol and drugs -- I'm talking about both -- starts somewhere else. If we know that there are different drug dealers at school, then it is also necessary to tell the students once a year and the donkeys that such a thing is harmful, not just to be calm about it. I think it would be right for the government to point that out. Schools, principals, probably, because they're the ones most likely to face these problems. Therefore, once again, I would like to say my proposal to propose that this expands not only to limit alcohol, but also to drugs and I would like to have the applicant think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you very much. And Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. Just for a little while. There has been a lot of talk here today about these educational methods and the need for children to be honest about these problems and really talk about them in school. That's why I mentioned Slomski on purpose. So if you look at his work and his texts that he was writing at the time, you can conclude that alcoholism was, of course, much bigger than today. Without some laws, without some, I would say the formal legal trails Anton Martin Slomšek faced this problem and worked hard in this area. And perhaps today our modern school could reexamine what it started with and follow this example itself. As for the law itself, I once again claim that it is unnecessary, as the law has also been broken down by my colleague Petan, all that is written in this law we already have in Slovenia today. We have a law that says that a driver should not have more than a certain amount of alcohol, we have a law that prohibits minors from giving alcoholic beverages, all of which exist. The question, of course, is implementation. And when we adopt a law, as the Minister has said, it is necessary to have economic effects in addition to political effects in any event. I have exclusively debated this because I am concerned about an area that is developing extremely well with us, this is the area of wine growing. And here the government as a whole should consider whether it will not do additional damage to such and similar measures needlessly. If the effect of this law is merely to destroy some of the small innkeepers because of the high penalty, because of the extremely harsh sanction policy enshrined in this law, then, of course, the effect of such a law is completely flawed and such a law will not in practice carry out what the Ministry has planned with this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you very much. And Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Allow me to respond, however, to individual proposals, comments. First of all, we believe that the inclusion of drugs in this law is not the right solution, because it is clear that alcohol is a legitimate drug, while in other cases illegal drugs are also subject to sanctions. There's a fight against them. As always against illegal areas, society has much greater problems and our society or our country is as successful as other countries where the illicit drug sector is a major problem. Second thing, I want to say that this law is not directed against vineyards. It is directed against excessive alcohol consumption, especially by children up to 18. Years, and, of course, adult education. If children have to drink alcohol to survive, or if adults have to drink twice as much alcohol as the average in Europe, it is too high a price. Let me say that if I were to speak about alcohol types, we believe that this law is not directed at wine because the current distribution of consumption is also different. In short, a comment on the price of non-alcoholic beverages. It is understandable that those who pour alcohol and serve with it, of course, because otherwise they would not water it - I am not talking about wine growers, I am talking about innkeepers - are obliged to make sure that they have two drinks cheaper and that they make other profits, that two drinks are cheaper, without talking now about whether the country will subsidise fruit juices so that they can be cheaper in the inn. And that all of this is already laid down in the laws of the past. Of course, I'm not going to mention what's not in the existing laws. It is enough to say that the limit is now 18 years old, 15 years ago, and that this very limit allows control, even if the inn is opposite the school, this inn, and I'm finishing the sentence, of course, will be severely sanctioned if it sells alcohol to schoolchildren during the break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u68	Mr. Minister, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u69	But that's enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u70	This is what our computers do, and the beeping is very similar. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has responded to the dilemmas and questions. The controversy is not possible and the replica will certainly not be appropriate because [[...]] [[Aborted.]] You have been misquoted by Mr. Secretary. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u71	So I have to replicate to the Minister because I think his statement is a little too harsh. And I think he misunderstood my debate. He stated if the price for our vineyards is that children should drink wine. So that's not the way I explained it. And that's why I object to him. I would also tell him: If we did the right analysis of alcohol consumption among our minors, then we would find that young people do not drink wine, but drink mainly spirit drinks, not wine, but beer. In order not to misinterpret each other, because you are in fact, I would say that my discussion has been interpreted somewhat in its own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, the assembly will vote in the afternoon following, in the framework of the vote of the assembly, which starts at 14.15 a.m. when the decisions on agenda items 14 and 15 are taken. I thank the Minister, Members and Members very much and interrupt this item on the agenda. We'll continue, as I said, at 2:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u73	Dear Members, honourable Members! We are moving on to the vote on the proposals for decisions today. We continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal of the Health Act. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal of the Health Act, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. 21 votes against 36. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. And this concludes item 14 of the agenda. And we continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on the restriction of alcohol consumption. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on the restriction of alcohol consumption, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration. We are voting on this. We're voting. There are 64 of us present. 56 votes against 4. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Therefore, the law will be allocated to the homework body. And that concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u74	The 16th item of the agenda was scheduled for 14 hours and 20 minutes. It's a good thing we're holding on to time, so we're running out of minutes. I ask for the patience of colleagues and colleagues, and then we will proceed with the decision. We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the Slovenian railway company D. D. By emergency. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. May I have your attention, State Assembly? On 23 this month, the Councils of Slovenian Railway Workers, Central Workshops and Six Unions of the Railway Industry introduced to me an initiative to call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal of the Law on the Conversion and Privatisation of the Slovenian Railway Public Enterprise. Yesterday, I set a deadline for collecting voters' signatures in support of the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the bill. Incentives of the referendum propose solutions that are conceptually contrary to the proposed law, so the beginning of the consideration of the bill at this time makes no sense. On the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, I therefore propose that we postpone this item to one of the following meetings. This proposal cannot be discussed by Members and representatives of the groups of Members can communicate their views and have 3 minutes to do so. There is also a possible explanation for the voice. Does anyone want a word in the context of business options? I'm guessing there's no one. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. We vote to postpone this item to one of the following meetings. 63 in attendance, 62 in, no in. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This point, the proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the Slovenian Railway public enterprise, is put at one of the following meetings for the purpose of the proposed initiative for the collection of signatures. We're moving to 17. THE PERIOD OF THE DAY – I pray for peace in the Chamber – is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Military Duty under the urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to the Minister if he wishes. Please, Minister Grizold, you have the floor to further explain the bill. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! Dear Members and Members! With amendments and additions to the Military Duty Act, we gradually conclude the two-year cycle of adopting constitutional, development and normative acts, which all jointly regulate the transformation of the defence system and, in particular, the Slovenian Army. Its medium-term and long-term development is determined. Last year and this year, the necessary studies were developed, various options for changing the Slovenian Army's mandatory system of replenishment were explored. This took into account the state and trends in the implementation of military duty, the reorganisation of the military, material and other capacities and, of course, processes in comparable military organisations of other developed countries. On this basis, the Government adopted fundamental decisions on 25.4.2000 to move to a professional army with a voluntary reserve. Thus, in the amendments to the Defence Act, we have already regulated the status of the voluntary reserve. Basic organisational, human resources and other solutions have also been identified, which have served to create changes and to supplement the law of ostrich duty. By the end of the year, they will be prepared, in agreement with the competent authorities of NATO, to complete the long-term programme for the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, together with a strategic review of the state, needs and capacities in the defence field. The proposal for a law governs the addition of an existing system of military duty - the gradual abandonment of recruitment, military service and compulsory service in peace and the conditions for reintroduction of the entire system of military duty, if necessary. A change in the completion system is to reflect the whole process of transforming the defence system and the military organisation, the Ministry of Defence's strategic project. It is extremely demanding and it is also an appropriate high responsibility for its execution. This is also confirmed by similar interventions in the replenishment systems in other countries. The fundamental aim of the changes is to establish a modern, rational and effective military organisation comparable to military organisations, in particular members of North Atlantic integration. Well, the most important consequences of implementing the law will be the following. First of all, there will be a need to increase the permanent composition, especially of the soldiers, especially for the next two years. Priority should be given to the professional members of those duties now performed by soldiers during military service. Acquisition of around 600 relevant and quality new members per year, depending on the size of the human resources base, will be one of the most challenging tasks. Furthermore, the overall permanent composition and structure of the military will be similar to that planned in the light of the transformation programmes so far. This accounted for around 26,000 in the war and about 18,000 in NATO. A demanding task will also be to obtain approximately 19,000 candidates for voluntary service in the reserve structure by 2010. There is already a reorganisation of the Ministry's administrative department that will adapt to the changes in the army's replenishment system. Furthermore, there will be a need to eliminate and resolve the known staff mismatches in the permanent composition of the military, which is also linked to the increase in the permanent composition. Finally, there will be a need to ensure adequate growth of defence expenditure. The projection was set by the Government on 27.6.2002. The most important share of additional defence resources concerns increasing the permanent composition, updating the equipment and training and so on. However, the specific amount of defence expenditure per year is, of course, conditional on the adoption of an appropriate national budget. For this purpose, the Military Duty Act itself does not provide for a specific amount of the necessary financial resources, but this is conditional on adopted military conversion programmes and the transition to a professional military and voluntary reserve. The data on the growth of defence expenditure referred to in the draft law shall take into account the most urgent standards and methodology applicable to NATO. In addition, military insurers' pensions are also shown during defence expenditure. This also applies to the fundamental elements of development by 2008. Given the key tasks ahead of us, I must say that they will be in practice [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u76	Finish your thought, Mr. Secretary. Lock up the thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Therefore, in practice, there will be fewer backlogs or differences and, according to the content, tasks must be fully carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Dr. Grizold. The draft law was regarded by the Defence Committee as a competent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Comrade Rudolph Petan, to present the report of the Committee. Please, Mr. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleague and colleague! At its 4th urgent meeting on 18 September, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on military duty submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Rule 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, following a rapid procedure, for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, the Committee was informed of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on military duties, which was published in the Rapporteur, by the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on military duty. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and of the Ministry of Defence, associations of Slovenian officers and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introduction, Dr. Tomaž Time, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, provided additional explanations under the article of the proposed law. In the discussion on the articles, Mr Miran Bogataj, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, presented more detailed solutions to the individual provisions of the bill, which was also defined in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly regarding the articles mentioned by that service. The representative of the legislative and legal service had no comments on the opinion given and no further explanation on the individual article of the bill by the proposer. In the light of the opinion of the legislative and legal service on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on military duty and in the light of the additional explanation given by the applicant to the individual article, the Defence Committee, in accordance with Article 129, has drafted amendments. It is essentially amendments of an editorial, purely editorial nature and thus amendments to Articles 6, 22, 23, 27, 28 have been adopted. Representatives of the proposed law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had no comments prior to the vote on the amendments. After the discussion and the vote on the amendments, the Committee also adopted all the other articles by assessing that the law was suitable for further consideration. In the light of the amendments adopted, the Committee also laid down, in accordance with Rule 133 of its Rules of Procedure, the text of the amended draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Military Duties, which is also an integral part of this report, and then appointed the rapporteur at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure, I now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Eight reported. First, I give my word to Mr. Christmas. He will present the views of the SLS Group, after which he will receive the word of his colleague Peca, for the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and so on. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Minister, Mr Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Our Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, that is, Members will support the draft law on changes and additions to the law on military duty. In the last two years, in 2000 and 2001, analyses and assessments were made of what our Slovenian army is like and how it will be in the Slovenian Army after the restructuring. On 25 April this year, the government provided guidance on how to prepare a law on military duty. This marriage is ahead of us. It mainly brings changes to the Slovenian Army to abandon recruitment, military service and compulsory reserve service. And a few changes to your conscience. After we leave the mandatory military service, we'll get a professional army. In doing so, we need to know - and I think we are counting - that we will still have the option of serving military service or serving in reserve, on a voluntary basis, as well as those who have an objection to conscience, will not be deprived of their objection. In fact, this law provides that the final draft will be at the end of 2003 and the final deployments to the military will be at the end of June 2004. In doing so, it should be emphasized that the military duty in terms of defence, as enshrined in the Constitution in Article 123, is not waived. Only some of the services we do not need in peace are being abandoned. A three-month voluntary reserve, as well as a simplified record of the abilities of those capable of military service, is still maintained. We also support the emergency procedure. In fact, the hands and obligations relating to the reorganisation are extremely difficult, and if we think about it, for over 100 years we have had a set, it will be difficult to get used to having something else and something else. The financial aspect of this law must also be highlighted. In the Rapporteur's number. 70 on page 20 we have a table showing how much more funding we will need in the years 2003 to 2010, when we are actually just about to complete a complete reorganisation. The reorganisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces should highlight the higher knowledge that everyone in the Slovenian Army will have to have. In doing so comes what was sometimes quite neglected and left only to men's sex, because higher knowledge will also be possible for women in the Slovenian Army, because in engineers electronics and those who can work computers there is no need to separate people by sex. This will give us a modern, rational and effective Slovenian Army under the new law for the needs of the Republic of Slovenia, I stress, for our needs, which will also be comparable to other military organisations of the Member States of NATO, and we will not have any difficulties in joining NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you very much, mate Christmas. I now give the floor to my colleague, who I do not see among us, so I will invite my colleague Ana Maria Tisovic. It will present the views of the New Slovenia Group. She will be given the floor of counterpart Kebric for the DeSUS Group. Please, Mrs. Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, Mr. Minister and his assistant and colleagues and colleagues! We have supported the Slovenian Army's professionalization and abolition of the recruitment system in the New Slovenia Group since the beginning. Integrating activities in North Atlantic integration and other international links require complementing organisational, human and other normative defence arrangements, and we therefore fully support the proposal for a law on military duty. In recent years a number of organisational and other solutions have been adopted that affect the exercise of military duty. The military bond was given the opportunity to enforce the contract of news. Alternative civil service and 30-day training to carry out protection and rescue tasks have been enabled. However, significant difficulties have also been identified in the implementation of the selection. The male population is shrinking. Also, the health status of recruits is deteriorating. Almost 20% of the taxpayers are unhealthy for military service, but also for military service, they are released prematurely, especially for health reasons up to 17% of the taxpayers. In addition, the number of applicants for recognition of conscientious objection to military duty is increasing. From 90 to 93% of applications are accepted. The possibility of civil service of military service is, in particular, more attractive for married military bondsmen than regular service, since in the vast majority of cases it does not require a full-day presence in the organisation where the recruiter performs his service. It is clear from this that the main problem of restructuring the Slovenian Armed Forces and adapting it to the standards of the North Atlantic Alliance and of modernisation in its implementation is undoubtedly the main problem. Therefore, it seems to us that the only meaningful solution to the bill will no later than the end of 2003 is to cease the recruitment of deployments for military service, civilian service or service in the police reserve by 30 June 2004 and compulsory service in the reserve and training for protection and rescue by the end of 2010. And the service of military service will become voluntary. It will include basic military training, which already needs to be carried out by candidates for professional military service, and therefore will certainly be better than the current compulsory service. Volunteers will certainly be more motivated and will come to serve a military term with a specific objective: regular employment in the Slovenian Army or contractual relationship in the reserve. I also find it positive that this type of employment also allows women. With regard to the employment and conclusion of a voluntary service contract in the reserve structure, it seems important to stress that the military profession will need to be made more attractive and attractive than it is now. The Slovenian army needs soldiers and subordinates, i.e. the largest number of personnel. Therefore, the reputation of the Slovenian Armed Forces as an institution as a whole will have to be promoted in public and the design of military employment. In addition, it will be essential for potential reserve holders, who will represent an important part of the Slovenian Armed Forces, to provide certain benefits at the time of the conclusion of the contract. For example, let me mention some of these options: the possibility of taking additional leave from the employer, the payment of voluntary pension insurance by the Ministry of Defence, the introduction of tax reliefs, the possibility of exploiting the holiday capacities of the Ministry of Defence. Finally, let me mention the positive financial implications of this bill. The implementation of the proposed legislative changes and additions will result in the need to no longer have to provide funds for the implementation of the recruitment and partial means for the implementation of the military deadline in 2004 except for the voluntary service of the military period and the replacement of the civil service. This will save money and can be spent on a more complete and improved quality of the Slovenian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you very much, colleague Tisovic. Among us, I do not see my colleague Kebrič, so I ask him to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, colleague Igor Štemberger, and after him she will receive the word of her colleague Danica Simšič. Please, first of all, colleague Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. In the Party of Young Slovenia we welcome changes to the law on military duty, as it is most important at this time that the reform of the Slovenian Army does not continue, whether we are invited to join NATO or not, and whether Slovenians will decide to join NATO or not. The fact is that the recruitment system of the army, as we know today in Slovenia, is inadequate at this time, as it does not guarantee us a sufficient number of soldiers in the near future. One of the reasons is a negative natural increase, and the number of recruits due to health problems and inability to serve military service and the growing number of boys claiming conscientious objection is even lower. Therefore, it will be impossible to provide the necessary national security and military defence, which are still the basic condition for the existence and development of the country and for the peaceful life of its citizens, with the recruitment system of the Slovenian military. There are, of course, other reasons that confirm that the Slovenian Army will be more effective after the reform. We must be aware, however, that the concept of security is expanding and that it is not only a solution to the direct military conflict, but an increasing intervention in the event of natural disasters, environmental problems, migration and international terrorism. It is only natural disasters that have become more common among us in recent times, so the good training and equipment of the military for such cases is still welcome. If we want to carry out the professionalization of the Slovenian Army to the end, we must not forget to save the status of the soldiers. At the moment, this status is not adequately resolved with us, so it may well be that there will not be much interest in the soldier’s profession. This profession must become honorable, valued and respectable. Individuals will have to be motivated to join the professional army. In doing so, the government must introduce both material and intangible stimulation for a professional soldier. It will be necessary to implement an appropriate payment and housing policy, introduce certain benefits in health and accident insurance, pension under more favourable conditions, adequate tax relief, assistance from the State in education and training. It will also be necessary to take a promotion and information action to make the profession of a soldier a respectable and honorable profession, as we must be aware that all those who choose to do so will make their health and life available for the defence and security of all of us. In the Young Slovenia Party, we will support the bill because we assess that the proposal leads to a flexible and effective defence force in our country, but we support those proposals leading to the professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the early termination of the surviving military recruitment system, although we would rather see that the pace of the proposed changes would be a little faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. Now, as I say, I give my word to my colleague Danica Simšič. It will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. She will be given the floor by colleague Janez Janša for the Socialist Party of Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary! Dear Mr. Undersecretary of State! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on military duty, the urgent procedure, otherwise, because we believe that the situation in the Slovenian Army needs to be regulated and thus ensure adequate competence and readiness if you want, including the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. On the road that we have outlined - the entry into Euro-Atlantic integration, which we have confirmed by almost all parliamentary parties with the signatures of our presidents both in the previous and the current terms of office, and with the already adopted, today, several of the basic documents mentioned in this area, there are probably no other solutions. What is of concern is, in fact, a great deal of urgency, since the recruitment is expected to cease within a good year of the deployment of military service and six months later. So, in mid-2004, more specifically, at the end of June 2004. The deadline is short, the responsibility of the proposer, both the ministries and the government, is great. Both at the substantive level, this is the establishment of a professional composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces as well as in financial terms, as it is almost 2% of the gross social product that we will devote annually to the military, thus strengthening the defence capacity of our country. As it is said, the hands we lay down with this legal framework are tight. Neither Europe nor NATO demanded them from us, but I think we have put them on our own with a prestigious competition and measuring proposals for such a legal solution between the opposition and the position. It must be borne in mind, however, that the accelerated introduction of the professional Slovenian army will require additional resources from taxpayers, to whom we have not previously counted, which we could spend much better on more knowledge for all, the elimination of unemployment and other social and developmental issues of our country. However, the birth of a professional Slovenian army began. By emergency procedure. We, in our parliamentary group, will not only observe it, but also support it with the support of the amended bill, as proposed by the mother's working body in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you very much, colleague Simsich. I now give the floor to my colleague Janez Janša, who will present the views of the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members, and will finally get the floor, Comrade Dorian Marsic, to present the LDS position. Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I express the satisfaction of our parliamentary group that this law is on the agenda for the State Assembly to decide on this issue today. However, I would like to point out that, given that this is a very difficult project, it would have been good to have this decision before us years ago. It was designed for the first time in its entirety and in this conceptual design, as is now the case in the law, already in autumn 1999. Since the government did not then listen to this proposal, we also drafted the law, filed it together with the New Slovenia and the Young Party, and only then came the appropriate government response and the proposal before us today. If the National Assembly had considered this proposal earlier, we would have had more time available and would probably have had results earlier. Well, anyway, there's nothing strategically misplaced. The proposal is largely appropriate, and some calculations and deadlines could also be different, more optimistic. Of course, each government also assesses its ability and ability to do what it can at some time. Slovenia's abandonment of the general military obligation to complete or form armed forces through the professional army and voluntary reserve brings Slovenia closer to some current, modern trend in the world. There are at least three key reasons for such a solution in developed countries. The first is the fact that, with the armed forces, each country responds to the level of threat it is exposed to, Slovenia does not threaten to attack any major mass army, so at the moment it does not make sense to place a large army against such threats on the basis of a general military obligation. Secondly, by abandoning the general military obligation that has been translated into the economy, a sensitive tax for half of the citizens in the country who have to sacrifice their free time or their time for such training, Slovenia is stepping to a higher level in civil development and agreeing to the the thesis that citizens are only burdened as much as necessary. And thirdly, Slovenia joins Nate, waiting for an invitation in a few months. He then changed this year's attitude to the way the army is being completed in the Member States and candidates; nothing is more than what was said earlier, something that doesn't matter how the state regulates it. NATO's new position is also expressed in the performance of Lord Robertson's Secretary-General at the end of the first half of this year, when he said that the armies were built on the general military obligations of the past century and that the new challenges, the new threats facing humanity today, require greater professionalism and professional army-based completion. As has already been said, our parliamentary group will support this law. In order to avoid a prestigious competition, we have withdrawn our own proposal. We note that the government proposal fully sums up our concept and, of course, our support is not questionable. We point out, however, that it is a demanding project, that it is not only enough to adopt the law, but that it will be necessary to take the realisation seriously and put every effort into the fact that the deadlines laid down in the law will also be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you, Comrade Janša. I now give the floor to my colleague Dorian Maršić, who will finally present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. This will conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Please, Comrade Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, coworkers! During the last decade, the Slovenian army has been subject to many major and partial reforms, while we have adopted several key strategic documents and laws in the field of national security and defence in the past two years, which also affect and, in particular, consolidate the organisational changes of the Slovenian Armed Forces in view of the new security environment and the foreign policy objectives of the Republic of Slovenia and its entry into military and political ties in Euro-Atlantic integration. The decision to abolish the current system of fundamental civil duty in the field of defence with the proposed amendments and additions to the law on military duty is a bold act which cannot be a project only of the Minister of Defence or of the Ministry of Defence, but of the whole country. We are taking this decision along the path that many European countries have taken and have faced both the advantages and the disadvantages of the professional army. In all our thinking so far, we have faced a tendency towards gradual professionalisation of the military, and the current proposal puts this process in very short time frames. However, Pandora's box is open, the way back is virtually gone, without causing greater difficulty in ensuring the defence readiness of our armed forces. In fact, we are forced to change. Despite the provision of standards and standards, our army has faced many problems in the last few years in completing its units. There is an increasing number of incapacitated recruits, an increasing proportion of conscientious objectors, a relatively short time of military service, an increasing need for qualified personnel due to increasingly demanding technology alone dictates a decision on a small professional and effective army. However, the decision itself has several important social implications and raises many questions. The professional army requires more funding from the state budget by the nature of the organisation and equipment. The estimated 2% of the gross social product provided at the beginning of 2008 for defence expenditure is, however, understood as an inevitable need for funds in the proposed project scenario. The latter has raised a number of concerns and questions in our parliamentary group as to whether such a level of defence spending will affect other budgetary spending and also important other state projects. Parliament has not yet carried out a more detailed analysis and a debate on the scope of the future professional army, and although this law does not specifically speak about it, the explanation accompanying the law largely prejudges the solutions and decisions that should be discussed under the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces. However, we are aware that without the provision of additional funds, the project cannot be implemented and there is no solution in half without jeopardising the readiness of the Slovenian Army. We are solving the dilemma today: whether we want the army as we have it today, or whether we are following European trends. Solutions will also need to be found for other consequences that the law will bring, for example: the establishment of an effective recruitment system for the professional army and a voluntary reserve starting in the following year; the requirements and professionalisation needs of other segments of the security system of the Republic of Slovenia, such as civil protection, which continues to be compulsory and to some extent unequal with military personnel; the logistical redeployment of existing military units and the concentration of necessary facilities; the provision of an appropriate standard for professional soldiers, which is certainly different from the recruitment system; the loss of personnel in humanitarian organisations mandated to carry out civilian military service, will also be a problem; the resolution of technological surpluses of the labour force due to the restructuring of the Ministry of Defence's work administration. The European countries that are still maintaining the recruitment system are assessing them as a link between the military and civil society. At this point, it should be pointed out that the introduction of a professional army changes relations within it and towards it. We renounce the work of civil, democratic control over the armed forces, which was direct through military bonds, and also sets a new milestone for our Parliament. An active and, in particular, very professional approach by Members will be needed to continue to ensure effective parliamentary control of the defence system. The defence strategy of the Republic of Slovenia states that we will proceed with the process rationally, effectively and gradually. We are considering the law following an urgent procedure, although we are convinced that the National Assembly should have more time at its disposal to deal in depth with the above-mentioned issues in order to achieve the objective set out in the strategy. Nevertheless, the LDS Group supports the law and the proposed additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Comrade Marshich. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal of the law, and it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am also concluding the second reading of the bill and moving on to the third reading, which is the final decision on the law. Let me remind you that it is possible here to explain your vote on behalf of the delegation with three minutes, on a personal behalf of two minutes. Does anyone want to take advantage of this business opportunity before we vote on the law? [[Nobody.]] I understand that the National Assembly can decide on the adoption of the law. Let's vote! There are 59 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 55 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the Minister and his co-workers for their participation in the debate. We're moving on to the 3rd item of the agenda. Please prepare the material for her. We're going to break three. Agenda item – Defence proposal for a bill on the implementation of health calls in the Republic of Slovenia for the countries of other Member States of the European Union. We decide on the proposal of the law in accordance with the emergency procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I ask the Minister, Dr. Kebra, does he want to further explain the bill? [[You don't want to.]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a competent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, colleague Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee. Only you, Comrade Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, in accordance with or on the basis of a decision taken by the National Assembly on 25.9. at this meeting and rejected the decision submitted by the home working body at the 22nd ordinary meeting, the mother working body was then considered yesterday at the 14th urgent meeting of the proposal for a law. A number of work materials have been added to the consideration of the law: amendments to the group of members of the government coalition - four parliamentary parties, of course - amendments to the New Slovenia Group of Members and the amendment already tabled at the 22nd regular meeting by colleague France Tsukjati. In the debate on Article 1 of the draft law and the amendment tabled, the amendment's proponents explained that they were following it
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u94	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u95	the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. [[...]] The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service agreed that the amendment should summarise the first part of the opinion, but still disagrees with the submission of a proposal to which health workers should be subject. The bill's proposer and the amendment's proponents considered that the amendment adequately addressed those shortcomings. In the debate on the amendments tabled to Article 3, it was certainly a little more said and it should be noted that the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stated in her oral explanation that the proposals do not resolve the issue of the use of Slovenian as an official language, since they only provide for communication between a healthcare professional and a user. This is, of course, true of the first amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the four parliamentary parties. In her view, it is also an imperfect norm for the employer to determine the level of language knowledge by means of his act, since the Constitution also provides that rights and duties must be recorded by law. It also noted that there are no penalties provided for in this Article. According to the amendment's proposers and the bill's proposer, the drafting of the amendment significantly improves the resolution of the issues raised and implies enlargement rather than narrowing the communication in the Slovenian language. They also consider that the provision whereby the government prepares standards on the level of knowledge required in the Slovenian language is sufficiently high. However, the motion for a law advocated the view that the provision on sanctioning was not necessary. However, some discussers felt that communication between a doctor and a healthcare user was extremely important and that the diction of communication was too clear and they also had concerns about the non-predictability of sanctions provisions. It may be argued that the Committee did not accept the amendment of the four members of the government coalition to Article 3 precisely because the arguments by the legislative and legal service to paragraph 1 of this amendment were still valid. In the discussion below, the Committee supported the amendments to Article 4, which provides for the granting of licences for the self-employed in the field of expertise, including to a foreign doctor or dentist. In view of the legislative and legal services' comments, which believe that discrimination between foreign doctors and our doctors remains, the amendment's proposers considered that it eliminates the unequal treatment of Slovenian doctors and dentists, as it is necessary to fulfil certain conditions for foreign doctors and dentists to obtain a licence. In the context of the discussion on the individual articles of the bill of amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendments of the four parliamentary groups of the four parliamentary parties to Articles 1, 2, 4 and 5 and the amendment to introduce Article 4a. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] And the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 3. [[...]] Could not close temporary folder: %s [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u96	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u97	- parliamentary groups of four parliamentary parties -
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u98	Please, if you'll just finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I understand that there is likely to be something else in the Rules of Procedure that needs to be rectified. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. The colleague Danica Simšič will be the first of representatives or representatives of the parliamentary groups. Three were reported, along with her colleague Tsukati and colleague Shirca. First, a colleague of Simšič, on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Just for a little while. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a law on the exercise of health professions in the Republic of Slovenia for citizens of other Member States of the European Union, as adopted by the updated text of the mother labour body, except in Article 3. The chairman of the committee tried to summarize briefly, and eventually he ran out of time, of distinction and of the difference between the solutions originally offered and the solutions that eventually crystallized. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the solution found in this Article is to use the Slovenian language and the level of knowledge that must be known also by those who will carry out health-care professions in Slovenia from other Member States of the European Union in order to determine precisely the criteria for how this knowledge is tested and the standards defined by the government are good. So let me summarise: we will support the updated text by supporting the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I invite my colleague Francet Tsukati to present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, followed by colleague Majda Shirca. But first, my buddy Tuck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Initially, the explanation of our position, which is well known, is that the matter needs to be regulated legally, that it is an inappropriate place, an inappropriate location - a special law to be regulated in individual laws, a health care law, a medical service, a medical activity, however. To explain my views, I would like to quote the case of the European Court of Justice, which has dealt with a case that is likely to happen to us in Slovenia at some point when we are members of the European Union. In fact, Mr Ham, a dentist, after the birth of Turk, worked as a dentist in Istanbul until 1980. Then he came to Italy, he got Italian citizenship, then he had problems there, and in Belgium he was granted a diploma, and thus a diploma and professional starting point for the entire European Union. He went to Germany and wanted to open a dental office in Germany. The chamber, the north-porn chamber, the German, for dentists - there they have a separate dentist hall and another chamber for other doctors - requested German knowledge and did not issue him a license for ignorance. The man then complained to the social court, "Sozialgericht", this is a local court in Dusseldorf, and he lost his claim; he complained further to the federal court and there he had problems. Then he complained to the European Court of Justice and the European Court handled the case very thoroughly. I will only say the conclusion of this, i.e. a summary of their verdict, namely: that the competent local authorities or authorities of the competent countries must respect the mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates and other documents so that they can look through their fingers and sometimes accept and issue a licence even if they do not meet all the conditions set out by the European Union in its Directive and are customary in other countries, but must not give in to the condition of language knowledge - of this condition must not be waived. Thus, the court ruled that the Medical Chamber had done the right thing to require German knowledge to issue a licence. So it protects the German language, which is slightly more protected than the Slovenian language. And perhaps our language would also need some protection when we enter the European Union. For this reason, we will, of course, propose that this protection remain and that the full powers of the Chamber, which, in particular, from doctors, as well as the pharmacies, which can require language skills from these profiles themselves, do not be circumvented. Please, this is the judicata of the European Court of Justice. For other professions, however, the State may designate an institution, which any employer can also designate. We will briefly amend this second version, which we now have before us, in the second, third and last articles. This is said to be some non-essential amendments, inexhaustible amendments, which mean compliance with these rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u104	Let me just say that the amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 6 have now been tabled. I now invite my colleague Majdo Shirca to the floor. It will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Then we will have a debate on individual amendments. Please, Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. In the parliamentary group, we will certainly support the amendments already supported by the committee to this law, except that which remains controversial and which is amended or proposed in another form and you have received it today by signing all representatives of the parliamentary groups at the table. Once again, if this law is adopted in that form, once Slovenia enters the European Union, we will be dealt with in a non-discriminatory manner. In short, access to work and services will be the same for all. Let me only draw attention to the distinction between that disputed article, article 3, which we would like to adopt in the form of an amendment you have on the table, because it is in this way clear, without absolute doubt, that foreign health workers must use Slovenian or Italian and Hungarian languages in their work in the area of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. It is also very clear that the way in which they are educated is determined by the employer, absolutely in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the European Union, and is significantly different from the second paragraph of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. I will also draw attention to the danger of the third paragraph of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, which, in addition to speaking contentiously about the relevant public instrument which the European Union does not know in this form, provides an even more controversial solution where it speaks of persons who wish to carry out a medical profession as a separate activity to give them the consent of the relevant knowledge of the Slovenian language, both the Medical Chamber and the other institution which has previously issued a public document. In this case you could even read that consent is that the status of the Medical Chamber is over the status of the professional or the institution, for example, the Faculty of Philosophy, which also issues certificates of knowledge of the Slovenian language. Let me just rip it again. I think that the law will be applicable to the consumer and to healthcare professionals in a non-discriminatory way if the problem of language is resolved in the way proposed by Article 3 of the Group, supported by all four groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Comrade Shirtz. With your presentation, we have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We have tabled three amendments to three articles, to two and three and six. With article 3, we have an amendment and an amendment to the amendment. We will lead the debate from article to article. We will only vote on the amendments and not on the articles as a whole. Madam Secretary-General reminds me that you do not yet have before you a review of the amendments, the one that has not been tabled for a long time. Should I interrupt the session so much that you get ahead of yourself, or can we make a decision without it? If anyone asks us to get the material, we'll stop the session. If one of you asks. Does anyone ask for it? Comrade Petty Officer, you demand. Okay, then until further notice, until, then, photocopying of the amendments tabled, I'll interrupt the session. As soon as the amendments are available and before you, we will resume the meeting. Until further notice, I interrupt and ask the technical services to immediately ensure that they are able to continue the meeting as soon as possible. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u107	We will soon continue to discuss and decide. Please see if all of you have before you the documents which have been tabled as amendments to the proposal for a law on the exercise of health professions in the Republic of Slovenia by Articles 2 and 3 and which have been tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members and by the four members of the ruling coalition. First, I will put Article 2 and the amendment to it. It was tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Please, buddy Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Therefore, the amended draft law in Article 2 states that a foreigner may carry out his profession in the Republic of Slovenia if he is recognised as qualified, of course in accordance with the agreements and the law, and if he has a certificate from the competent authority of a Member State of the European Union that he may carry out his profession. As already mentioned above, in the European Union, it is considered that it is not discriminatory to require foreign health workers to meet the same conditions as in the case of Slovenian health workers. And the legislature has warned us that, under these two conditions, it is said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u109	There's too much trouble in the hall. Please. My friend Candy is the only one who has a word. I'm asking for peace. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u110	That is to say, if only under these two conditions, recognition of qualifications and confirmation of the country from which the foreigner comes would be sufficient, then this would constitute discrimination against Slovenian doctors, dentists, pharmacists who are required by the Chamber to meet other conditions for entry into the register and for the performance of the profession. And as we have seen in the Brussels case, foreigners are also allowed to impose the same conditions as domestic workers. For this reason, we have proposed to add to this article the entry into the register of the relevant chamber for doctors, dentists and pharmacists as regards foreign citizens. I think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u111	Anyone else want a word? We're at Article 2 and the amendment. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, my colleague Shirca wanted a word. I'd end up saying a word to the minister. Please, Shirtz's colleague first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u112	I just wanted to point out that this amendment actually overlaps or regulates the matter already regulated in Article 4 of this Act, both in the proposal and in the subsequent amendment form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u113	Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Not anymore. Can we get to the vote? We are with Article 2 and the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. We are voting on the amendment we have in our review of Article 2 under the order number 1 of the Socialist Party Group of Members. We're voting. 64 present, 14 for and 40 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. With article 3, we have an amendment to the amendment and the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group and four parliamentary groups. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and both amendments or amendments tabled. My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. However, I am pleased to accept the amendment of the four groups of Members, with which we have also been satisfied with the strong arguments of the legislative and legal service, which were still present yesterday at the consideration of the draft law on the working body and have remained in the dictatorship, as the amended proposal for a law from the home working body brings to the plenary decision. I therefore support the amendment amending Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please, buddy Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u116	Article 3 is, of course, better than that original diction, because it requires the use of Slovenian language, not only in relation to the patient, but in the course of the profession, so we agree with the first paragraph. But the second paragraph seems to be insufficient. In fact, the employer can only determine language skills for employees. In Slovenia we have about 900 private doctors, dentists, 400 pharmacists, a type of physiotherapists who do not have an employer, and they will also need to find someone who will actually monitor Slovenian language knowledge. And I don't know why, in the case of those who are organised in the Chamber, they would continue to ask and check the Chamber, these are doctors, dentists and pharmacists, and those private other health workers who have an organized chamber. With regard to other private health workers who do not have the appropriate chamber, it is likely that this task will have to be taken over by the Ministry, we do not know otherwise, or the one who grants the concession, because he can set the conditions as we have seen in the case of the European Court of Justice. We therefore propose that the second paragraph of the proposal of Article 4 of the Group of Members be amended as proposed in our amendment. Thus, in order to comply with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, this means to fulfil the use of the Slovenian language, supervise, verify in the case of foreign doctors, dentists and pharmacists the appropriate chamber. This would give us a uniform approach and this verification for all foreign citizens, including those coming from non-European countries, because the Chamber also checks those. In the case of other foreign health workers and co-workers who do not have an appropriate chamber, their employer or Minister of Health shall, in the case of private health workers or co-workers. I believe that our amendment is consistent, with the objective which it also has, I think, the bill-maker.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u117	Anyone else want a word? Comrade Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u118	If anyone had decided on this supplement or to amend the second paragraph of the basic amendment, then they would have faced extreme nonconsistentity, as that item would have disappeared where the employer was obliged to determine the level of language knowledge in his acts, as well as how this knowledge would be verified. In short, the entire regulation we discussed would disappear until the last accent of these possible solutions was analysed, and the whole system, which is in place in favour of Slovenia, doctors, consumers as well as the EU, would be absolutely broken.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you, Comrade Shirtz. Anyone else want a word? We're at the 3rd and 3rd amendments. [[No, no, ……]] Shall we go to the vote? Procedural? Please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry, but I have to take this. Yesterday, we noticed that the problem, at least the apparent problem, with the voting system in our house, was that we checked the outcome of the vote of the President's Law and observed that some of the votes that were already justified in one direction were then recorded differently, as well as those that we did not notice, at least one person we did not notice in the Chamber was registered on this outcome of the vote as if she had voted. As you know, Mr President, I immediately informed you and asked you in writing to have this matter checked and reviewed. I'm very concerned if I have a problem with our devices, that we're still voting before this is checked. I would like to ask you, as President, to assure us that the technical apparatus is fine before we continue to vote. Because obviously we have some problems here and I would like to clarify this problem before we vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u121	As the first of the same as the President of the National Assembly, I am obliged to ensure that all votes are in accordance with the will of Members and Members, so that technical errors do not lead to errors in the determination of this will. I have no doubt that today, due to a technical error, I would like to suspend the vote. Every morning, the technical devices are inspected as well as this morning. According to the secretaries or technical services, it is suspected that today the voting apparatus would not work as it should, so today we continue to vote. As far as your question is concerned, let me explain to you and the well-respected National Assembly the following. Also due to the fact that any vote without any suspicion that, for technical reasons, voting would be different from will, I, as soon as I received your letter, addressed to the competent authorities in the national assembly to the technical services the request to determine by means of audiovisual means whether there might be a mistake or whether there was something else that caused the fact that a Member was declared that it would not have been. I also formally asked my fellow Member to give me a written statement of his presence or absence, and I expect him shortly. At the end of the meeting of the National Assembly, I will also take a look at the recordings or all documents available, together with the heads of technical services, and find out what caused this behavior and then inform you in writing. For the time being, there is no reason why the National Assembly should not normally vote on matters forward. Please, let's move on with the discussion. But I will inform you in writing, Comrade Bajuk, of my findings. Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much. In view of the content of the proposed amendment to the third article of the amended bill, I think it is worth listening to, and I think that this should probably be done too, Mr Minister. At least in this we are following in part the arguments that we do not have to prescribe sanctions, and I know that they are also difficult to prescribe. But given the content we have in paragraph 1 and then in paragraph 3, the government will prescribe the criteria and stand behind them. However, we have no diction in the law, but who should exercise control over it? This amendment to the amendment, however, allows the practice to be eliminated when we have doctors from, say, the former republics of the common country who are simply not ready to speak to patients in the Slovenian language after so many years, and virtually nothing happens. We are now establishing at least this minimum control, and I think it is worth it, Mr Minister, to put a stop to this amendment to the amendment for a moment, because we will only improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u123	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u124	I can explain that we thought that the government would, of course, also, in these regulations for self-employed people - we are talking about concessionaires - prepare a way to control it. However, I allow, if this is possible, in the second paragraph of this specific amendment, which we are talking about, to write "the employer in his acts or the concessionaire in the concession contract" and then, "set the level of language knowledge". This would actually make it more firm, in the spirit of the implementation of Dr. Tsukati's Member of Parliament, also from self-employed health workers, that is, all people with concessions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u125	Anyone else want a word? My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u126	I would like to point out that our amendment does not devalue the intention of your second paragraph. For he says that the employer is obliged to check and supervise; as he will do so, he will probably write in some of his acts, because he will certainly have to arrange it. We could complement it by monitoring and checking what it says in its acts, which it defines in its acts, but I don't think it's necessary. So, personally, I do not think that the intention of your paragraph restricts or undermines, but solves all other problems in a suitable way, not least in a non-discriminatory way to our healthcare professionals, which I fear, as we will see in the following article, that matter can be a constitutional court.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u127	Anyone else? I'm guessing no one wants a word anymore. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u128	So I got the wrong idea because you also mentioned self-employed or concessionary workers who are themselves employers. Therefore, to this additional explanation, I would simply say that the employer does not have a precise regulation for other duties - the employer is responsible for the country, the employer has a way or control over himself, which is controlled at a certain point in time, if he does not comply with the legislation, to remind him of it or to sanction him. So in this case, I do not see the need for a specific distribution of the employer’s performance in order to meet the requirement of Slovenian language knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u129	Peace in the hall, please. I don't see any more deadlines for an application for an explanation of vote. So we can make a decision. First, on the amendment to the third article tabled by the Socialist Democratic Party Group. We're voting. Peace in the hall. We are in the midst of the vote on the amendment to Article 3, tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members.62 attended. 20 for, 38 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment has not been accepted. This allows us to move to a decision on the amendment to Article 3 or Article 3. We're voting. 64 present. 49 for, 10 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the amendment to Article 3 proposing a new text of this Article has been adopted. We have an amendment to the 6th member of the Socialist Party's Group. Anybody want a word? Comrade Tuck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Although I do not know who it serves, however: in the second indent of the first paragraph we propose to delete the word relationship, the fifth indent of the third paragraph of Article 37 - on the work relating to the use of Slovenian language in working with patients. Indeed, this indent, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, speaks of the possibility of sanctioning the non-use of the Slovenian language, including the temporary withdrawal of the licence up to a maximum of 5 years. This indent shall apply to all physicians. And we don't know why the proposaler solved these sanctions options for foreigners. We're a little incomprehensible, and we're just suggesting that our amendment be accepted. The second issue also referred to in this Article or is raised in this article is the deletion of an article or that article in the Act on Pharmacy, which commands pharmacists to have some professional continuity if they want to start a private activity. This is said to have been out of the pharmacy for more than 3 years, the Slovenian pharmacist cannot open a private pharmacy because, in the meantime, it is the way the pharmacists assess things so that it would be dangerous for the patient. We do not impose this condition on foreigners, which will, of course, once again be an example of discrimination. Well, that's what we're used to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u131	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u132	I would also like to explain this with regard, after all, to Article 3, which is the most controversial. Article 3 also, which has been voted on, confers an advantage on healthcare professionals from abroad in view of the degree of severity of the proof of knowledge. That is why we have announced - and I repeat before this National Assembly - that we will amend three laws in accordance with this law, in a dictatorship as it will be adopted: the Medical Service Act, the Health Act and the Pharmacy Act. Thus, until the day these laws start to apply, we will eliminate all possible discrimination between our and foreign health workers. I believe, however, that if you allow me to see that the sanctions are taking away the license, even temporary, such a terriblely large measure that the withdrawal of the licence will have to be re-examined - just by extending the debate for other reasons. Especially since she should probably only be in court by now. We therefore find it less reasonable today to confirm the withdrawal of the licence because of this fact, but rather to withdraw it from the existing medical service law. This does not underestimate the Slovenian language. But what I'm trying to say is that it's almost a professional "death penalty" and that no profession in this country knows that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-26-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u133	Anyone else? Can I finish this discussion? Okay. We are at Article 6 and the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. On the other hand, you have an amendment under the First Amendment, which we are voting on. Please. Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote! 56 present. 29 for, 22 for. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 6 has been adopted. I note that the amendments to Articles 3 and 6 have been adopted in the second reading. I ask qualified candidates whether they wish to table amendments to this Article. Please. No one wants to make any amendments. So there can be no amendments tabled in the third. Then we can check the consistency. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I would ask that the competent authorities in the legislative and legal services and governments alert the national assembly if the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted is inconsistent. Coordinated. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Does anyone want to take advantage of the right to explain their voice? Nobody? We are voting on the bill as a whole. We're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a full vote on the law. 63 present, 55 for, none against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 18th meeting of the National Assembly. The National Assembly will continue its 18th meeting tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. I want a nice day and an evening to go on.
