ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u1	Hello! I begin the continuation of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Branko Janc, Jožef Špindler, Yuri Malovr, Bojan Kontič, Andrei Fabjan, Franc Kangler, Rudolf Mogue, Only Bevk from 12.00 p.m. onwards, Jože Ašič, Leopold Kremjar, Ferry Horvat, Maria Possonec, Zoran Gračner for the beginning of the session, Valentin Pohorec and Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Please insert the cards to determine the presence of the sitting. Please press the "quorum" button. I find there are 48 Members and Members present. That's how the assembly is concluded and it can decide. Today's meeting is attended by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whom I welcome very much. Today's continuation of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the cut-off of the 9th point, this is the proposal of the Feed Law, which we still have a third hearing under the rapid procedure. After this point we will move on to the 10th point, this is the proposal of the livestock law, and in order of order. Before the end of today's session, the assembly is expected to also hold agendas 38th and 39th. Now we can go to break nine. Period of the day, thirdly, a proposal for a stern law. I can find out that two amendments have been tabled - please pay attention! - first, we have an amendment to Article 8 tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members and then we have an amendment to Article 21 tabled by the Liberal Democracy Group of Members. I think that colleagues are just sharing this amendment, if I'm not mistaken, so we can just start a debate on the amendments tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting a debate, first of all, on Article 8. Who wants a word? Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you very much. I'll explain the amendment that says paragraph 8 is deleted. I think it is a complete nonsense that we will add another additional consensus for completely classical industrial facilities such as processing plants in this case, in this case, in the case of VURS, when we know how to build buildings, which consensus is all necessary. I think there's too many of them so far. As a result, we will not be able to achieve some consequences in production that will in themselves provide irresistible animal feed. That's total, I don't think, nonsense. And seeing as such objects are taken over, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u3	Can I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u4	shall be entered in the technical inspection, when all inspectors are present, and these inspectors, of the sanitary and all that, shall be sufficient by now. [[...]] And according to this logic, when constructing various other VURS facilities, I should also give consent to the construction of a pharmaceutical plant, because there are medicines working there, and I don't know what. I really urge fellow Members and Members to reflect on where we extend the powers of certain services to a completely different area. These matters need to be resolved systematically under the building law. But we can't participate in this nonsense here, and they can't participate in this job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Any other Members and Members would like a word on this amendment? Maybe a representative of the government, a secretary of state.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Good day, ladies and gentlemen! The government opposes this amendment because it considers it harmful. Harmful for feed producers. For what? The applicant explained well that when the facility is built, they come to see if all inspections are in order. And if it's not in line, it's already too late because the facility is built. And more. This veterinary inspection then gives the end user authorisation for and for all facilities. If this article were deleted, then we would have done twice as much damage. In fact, the feeder could be placed in an awkward position only at the end of the so-called technical inspection, the veterinary profession would find that its facility is not in accordance with the veterinary rules and later on, the veterinary profession could therefore find that it cannot give consent to use. Therefore, we believe that this agreement to the dossier has, in fact, facilitated the follow-up procedure of the producers. On the other hand, we need to know that all establishments under control under veterinary control are covered by the Veterinary Act. These objects aren't. That's why they're written here. So I would ask you not to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u8	The State Secretary's argument is absolutely unacceptable. I don't know, but then the doctors will also be looking at the real chemical factory where the raw materials for the drugs are produced. That's what we're going into. And at this stage, I think that the veterinary profession has no place and that even the consent of the veterinary, this VURS, for the use of a permit, makes no sense. This is an industrial facility where, see, manufacturing and technical devices are quite standardised; however, if the final food product is either a medicine or a chemical, there are mixers, hammers, shredders, all of these are very standard matters. Here are the substantially more important prior consents of other professions already covered. I must say, even with regard to these veterinary consents, I could give you a lot of nonsense. In some places this feature has already been achieved by the need for consensus, for example, in the construction of chicken stables, farms, terrible ingenuity, which infuriates production. There was a request for a veterinarian's office, and I know exactly from experience that in 30 years the veterinarian was never in such an office. And there's a variety of perceptions that irritate objects that make up impossible and pointless things. I do not agree that each profession interferes with the field of other professions which [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] . After all, in the production of feed, food technology and chemists are certainly more merciless to assess what is wrong than veterinarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, the debate would be closed. Can I? Thank you. So, I conclude the debate and we move on to the vote on the amendment to Article 8. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 8 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Now, please, Mr. Rupar, if you can re-inject the card and check it out. You can see if it works.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u10	I'm sorry, but these lights didn't work for me at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u11	Nevertheless, we will not repeat the vote because it would not have an impact on the final result anyway. Our colleagues are listening to this and will immediately check to see if it works. In the meantime, we are going to Article 21, where an amendment by the Liberal Democracy Group is tabled. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With this amendment too much red tape, of course, we will not solve it, but we wanted to achieve two things. One is to reduce the number of members, and then the operationality of this world can be more effective. Secondly, such a proposal that institutions propose someone from the profession does not necessarily come from their house, for example, a chamber can propose someone from the institute. And so loosely is the proposal now that I think this world could work more effectively then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Who else wants a word? Please, Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to say that we agree with this amendment proposed by the LDS Group of Members, and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you. Any other Members and Members would like a word? Anyone else from the government might want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Then I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 21 and move on to the vote. Let's vote, please! 50 Members and Members voted in favour of the 56 present, 1 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate mutual compliance? [[It's not.]] That is why we can move to a full vote on the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. Let's vote, please! I'm sorry. It was too fast. Excuse me. Explanation of voice. Here you go. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! At the beginning of the Slovenian National Party, in the opening position of the parliamentary group, we said that we do not support the law itself under the five basic laws, among which it is necessary to highlight two in particular for our decision. For the first time, this law imposes on Slovenian agriculture and does not provide it with what it would need at the moment, as well as protection. Protection against foreigners, especially at the moment when Slovenia enters so-called European integrations that are not friendly to Slovenian farmers. Allow me very briefly about the law itself. The law itself has 43 articles, of which only 19 articles do not include the mandate of a minister or ministry. And even among these 19 articles, which do not have this definition of additional power to the Minister, the final and general provisions are counted. Thus, in all the substantive articles, this law provides for the powers of the Minister. But allow it, defines the sub-laws, defines them only in the part that says what to do, and this title of implementation, not content. Therefore, determining the quality of feed is the responsibility of the Ministry, not the National Assembly, but of some narrow groups of people, for which we fear in the Slovenian National Party that it will be subject to lobbying, which will now be so much stronger in Slovenia. So at this point in time of adaptation to European legislation. Next. Prohibition of production, transport, storage, use of feed. The same applies to the prohibition of production, sale, storage of additives. The Minister shall set up the marking. The minister's setting up the package. The Minister determines transport, all by means of sub-legal acts, which will not be unfortunately in favour of the Slovenian farmer, for the purpose of obtaining the relevant documentation. You can imagine what it's like to get all the submarital acts, and I'm barely four. Let me get on with it. The Minister shall determine the content and method of testing, establish lists, issue rules for the conditions for obtaining licences. Determines the application committee, provides for deletions from the list. Determines the use of data, ensures medical fitness. All this, Minister. This is not the subject of law, which should basically be the origin of the law. I suppose we accept the laws so that people can be respected, not because the laws of some kind show with a single article, they are all implemented by the minister. All the regulations are given by the minister. Ladies and gentlemen, not only will we, so this National Assembly, lose the branch for which we are called, so that we are the legislative branch of power, but we will make one administrative law in the main stage. But let's move on. The Minister authorizes the labs. The Minister prescribes the conditions. It prescribes methods of taking samples. The minister finds out, he's setting up a feeding world. He appoints their members. He's calling the sessions. It allows for the import of feed. He's rejecting shipments, of course, and he hasn't forgotten that either. It sets up an information system. It's up to him. Don't let go of irreparable damage. He's receiving surveillance. It defines the costs, issues the regulations, publishes the lists. And there's more to this marriage. All I'm saying is that we don't accept a law that's lifelike. Especially not the life law for those who live by this law. And to conclude and as the main argument. The Slovenian national party will not support this law. And also in the decision of the Constitutional Court and here, I am sorry that the professional services of the Minister or State secretaries and secretaries, their associates do not even know these things. Allow me to quote, the Constitutional Court, in its decision of 4.6.1998, stated: The principle set out in Article 120, paragraph 2, and Article 153, paragraph 3, of the Constitution states that the legislator must, and that is, the National Assembly, when authorising the executive branch of the authority to issue a sub-law, and we hereby authorize the Ministry to do so, in order to issue the regulations of the law, the content of the regulation itself should not be forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not touch the content, we leave it all to the ministry, which is doubtful its credibility at these moments. At least that has proved to be the case in the last agricultural activity. It shall lay down, on its own basis, the content to be subject to this Regulation and lay down the framework and guidelines for its more detailed sub-legislative arrangements. We violate constitutional decisions. If you don't want to say we're shutting down the Slovenian farmer. Unfortunately, about the same form of law appears in the next law that we will publish. I think it's a good enough argument for the National Assembly to reject this law. We do not accept this law because of the Minister of Agriculture, but because of the fact that he will live in his content. When will he come to life if each article lays down a law? Ladies and gentlemen, this marriage cannot come to life because it will take decades for the Minister to make all these under-laws. And I suggest that we not accept it, return to the procedure and make the law as it is appropriate. At the time of investment, adaptation to European legislation and on behalf of protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to, yes, I don't want to interrupt. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna need you. And second warning, it is not possible to speak in plural in explanation of voice. The explanation of vote is always the first person of unity. So you can't do that on behalf of a member group or something. Well, please, follow these rules of the game. They're all the same. Voice explanation, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nor do I intend to vote for this law, for a simple reason, because it is indeed true that this law, and also those we will consider for this, introduces a new administration into the field of Slovenian agriculture. If some amendments were adopted, you might think differently. First of all, I am concerned that Mr Rokavac's amendment has not been adopted, which would solve some of the issues related to this law. However, the secretariat also points to the principle of legality in accordance with Article 120 of the Constitution. Too many articles end with the Under-Laws of the Minister, and the basic content of the law itself, how such acts should be drafted, is not. For this reason, I will also vote against it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr Jerovšek, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I don't intend to support this law myself because it's lifeless. I agree that the law will not live in practice, but will have negative consequences. And the fact is that the implementation of this law will further reduce the competitive capacity of Slovenian agriculture and, of course, reduce farmers' income and endanger them. The extremely poor situation in the Slovenian livestock sector and the problems of the survival of the Slovenian farmer will continue to increase, and in the situation where we face a restrictive policy of the European Union, which will in fact be more restrictive and slower during this period, we will be able to draw much less from the structural funds of the European Union. I do not know whether the drafters of this law anticipated that we would have huge resources and that we would be able to afford everything, much more livestock administration than the European Union would afford. In addition, this law is exclusively written, I regret to say, solely in the interests of one character, it is a veterinary feature. But he ignored the interest of the farmer, completely. I am relatively well aware of the environment, the real situation of the peasant man, livestock farmers during this period. And I must say that in this situation, it is unacceptable to introduce such administrative measures through law, irrational, unacceptable. However, I must say that I also do not understand the Minister of Agriculture, because this law and further law are also the millstone at the door of the Minister of Agriculture. If he's doing it himself, he can choose, but I don't understand this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you. Explanation of vote, Mr Sušnik and then Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not vote for this law for a number of reasons. However, I justify these reasons by thinking that I still know very well what is going on in agriculture, even in this livestock sector, which is the most widespread activity in our agriculture, even in those areas with limited farming opportunities, what is going on. This law is just an additional contribution to increasing agricultural bureaucracy, which seeks only to choose its place under the sun, how to fight as much as possible the money that this country spends on agriculture. This certainly and irrefutablely leads to less and less money for the development of agriculture in our country. The situation of agriculture and thus the situation of rural areas is deteriorating dramatically. However, the measures imposed by the adoption of laws on farmers and agricultural producers, in particular by the sub-legislative measures prescribed by the ministries, lead people to abandon their farming or animal breeding activities by abandoning those farmers who have so far regulated one, two, three, five bovine animals and who have played a very important role as a communist in the space. I am sure that such small complements, if I say so, should be given special attention by agricultural producers in areas with limited farming opportunities if we want this country to maintain its cultural landscape and prevent further forest protection and expansion. This is also a law that will in any case leave additional negative effects on livestock farming, which has already been affected by BSE disease. This law further strengthens the domination of one of the professions over agriculture. I'm not gonna tell you which one, because that's why there's been too much blood. The fact is that the vet gains new and new powers, which only a farmer will pay in the final phase, because it only happens that the price of meat increases, the buying-in price falls, and so we can conclude that this excessive administration and normalisation in the agricultural field has affected both the user and the manufacturer; and in the processing chain, they can already ensure that they maintain their level of profits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and distinguished representatives of the government! I will vote against the adoption of the feed law on a rapid basis, and for the reasons already stated on behalf of my fellow Member, Saš Pečet, who, in other words, wanted to say in plural, as you warned him, on behalf of all of us, we will be on our own. And there's another reason. In particular, the latest data on the poor situation in Slovenia's negotiating venues towards the European Union and the situation as it is seems to me that the European Union's rapid procedure and adaptation under all conditions are not going on in any way and in any way at this time. If the European Union is already setting its conditions and stifling them, it is also right that we look not only at the European Union in the drafting of its legislation, but also at the benefit or harm of the Slovenian farmer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, an explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will, of course, support this marriage. I estimate that the law that will provide in the food chain is transparency in the food chain of animal origin. I estimate that this law is particularly useful for producers of food of animal origin, and these are farmers, so that they can produce healthy food. Above all, this law is useful for users, both in our space and in the European one we want to enter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you very much. When I monitored the adoption of this law, I became convinced with my own eyes that agriculture with all the branches that belong here, including veterinary medicine, is a true science fiction, given the approach of this house. And I'm glad that this agriculture will still survive. But I am glad that this law and doing it after so many months is over, and I will gladly support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Can we finish the explanations of vote and get to the vote? [[Yes, you can.]] So we're voting on the whole law. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present, 33 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 10. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A CIVIL LAW, STRAIGHT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. We're moving to first reading. I'd like a representative of the government, if he'd like a word. Excuse me, Mr Jerovšek has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the law we have just adopted, we have faced the fact that the legal matter has not been adequately prepared in our opinion and that, as we have seen, the law will have a detrimental effect on Slovenian livestock and Slovenian agriculture. A similar situation occurred in the media, professional circles, in the professional circles of farmers, including the present law, the livestock law. Many of the provisions of this law are controversial and I repeat, in view of the change in the pace of the European Union, by reducing the structural resources that Slovenia will receive, with increased problems, I propose that, in accordance with Rule 179 of the Rules of Procedure, today we hold only a general debate, a real first debate, and a second and third debate be held following a regular procedure in the further stage of the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u31	Mr. Rokavec, did you also want procedural? So do you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u32	On the contrary, I propose that we proceed with the agenda item, as it was adopted at the time of the adoption of the agenda. In fact, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food actually carried out the full examination and processing of the law. In fact, this law does not raise any major questions, there was no debate, not then on the committee today, I think we got on the bench of one or two amendments, so I do not really understand what the problem of this law would be. Not even to make a question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u33	Excuse me, Mr. Rokavec. Procedurally, we said. Not a debate on a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u34	Mr. Chairman! I propose that we address this item in accordance with the adoption of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u35	I would have tried to say that, but I thought you had a procedural proposal. Thanks anyway. So Mr Jerovsk's proposal is justified, but not at this point. After the first hearing, I will put your proposal to the vote. Thank you. And now I ask the representative of the government, Dr. Vido Čadonic Špelič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u36	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are again coming before you with a new law to say that it is indeed in harmony with all interested parties. That's what they say, with the agri-land chamber, with the breeders, with the expertise, let it be animal breeding as a veterinary. The law has indeed been born throughout 2001, and I am sure that this law with far fewer amendments and much less will will go through the national assembly. Allow me to introduce him very briefly. Thus, the livestock law sets out the objectives of livestock farming, the conditions and the manner in which animals are reared without disturbance, it also regulates conventional and natural livestock farming. It then sets out breeding programmes, altering and maintaining the characteristics of domestic animals, transferring selection achievements to breed, maintaining genetic variability, genetic reserves and indigenous breeds, professional tasks and services in the field of livestock farming, and so on. The following sets out which types of domestic animals are covered by the law and that for the breeding of other types of domestic animals, such as dogs, small breed animals, ovine and caprine animals, where they are regulated for economic purposes or other purposes such as social purpose, competition and exhibition, and also lays down rules for wild animals to be regulated in accordance with this Act. The purpose of this law is to regulate livestock farming due to the development, of course, of quality animal products, the conservation of agricultural areas in their function, the conservation of landscapes and settlements, the adoption of specific measures and material incentives, the conservation of biodiversity in livestock, as we said before, of the genetic banks of domestic animals and, most importantly, the conservation of the uninterrupted breeding of all animal species, of course domestic animals or animals referred to in this law. Of course, the fundamental objective of this law is to adapt Slovenian legislation to the European order. At the same time, let us recognise that this law, whether we enter or do not enter the European Union, is necessary and must be adopted, since the old law is very old and is therefore obsolete. And that is why we think that by this law we allow breeders, farmers, and all those who survive or love animals to do so, we set better conditions for them. The law is based on the principles of compliance, neutrality and equal measures by ensuring the equality of beneficiaries who meet the conditions laid down in the application of public service services in livestock and other services in the performance of professional tasks in livestock. At the same time, appropriate controls are also being established on the implementation of all activities covered by the breeding programmes and the common basic breeding programme and other professional tasks. So we're talking about a professional but top-notch law on livestock. We ask you and suggest that you adopt the law with the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Can I ask you for peace in the hall; it is not possible to move on. Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a livestock law was drawn up by the Government and put in place a rapid procedure. The reason for the rapid adoption of the law is in particular the adaptation of Slovenian legislation in the field of zootechnical legislation of the European Union. In fact, this law should be adopted in accordance with the plan for the adoption of European legislation last year and should enter into force by the end of last year. The text of the law is extensive and is, somehow, with a broad explanation, a qualitative explanation has been transmitted to the National Assembly and is somehow divided into four sets, which the Ministry of Agriculture has just briefly explained. No committee meetings were attended by representatives of the Agricultural and Forestry Chamber, the Veterinary Chamber, the Biotechnical Faculty, the Veterinary Faculty and the representative of the Secrates for Law and Legal Affairs. The proposed law was assessed by the Committee on Agriculture as a well-prepared law. In the general debate, the members and members of the Committee asked a number of questions to the proposers. The questions concerned in particular the provisions of the draft law defining the area of domestic animal breeding, the regulation of the premises, the construction of buildings and other conditions for the rearing of domestic animals. We also spent a lot of time discussing that part of the law that defines insemination centres and artificial insemination of domestic animals. In the section on inspection, there were also concerns regarding the powers between agricultural and veterinary inspection. At the end of the discussion, the representatives of the proposer answered the question and dilemmas of the members and members of the committee. Specific questions and comments are contained in the Committee's report itself, which we have prepared on the Committee. Following the meeting, the Committee adopted several of its amendments, which were prepared by the proposers, together with interested institutions, on the basis of comments made by the members of the Committee and the secretariat and comments made by interested institutions. At the end of the hearing, we also agreed to propose that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a law following a rapid procedure with amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are here to present the views of the groups of Members. I only have one application here for once. Mr. Sok on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I will try to be very brief. Our parliamentary group will support this law. In principle, we are opposed to the fact that such important laws that systematically regulate an area, as regulated by this law, are adopted in a rapid manner. Even when it comes to coordination with the European Union. But since the law is mostly of a technical nature, somehow we have not proposed, except on a committee where this has not been adopted, we have not proposed in Parliament that we should not deal with this law quickly. However, I would like to point out that in a law which essentially has only 123 articles, 66 articles end with the conclusion that a more detailed regulation under this Article will be issued by the Minister. Thus, this matter is repeated in paragraphs 66. The minister will prescribe, the minister will issue, the minister will allow and so on. So it's about the same problem we encountered in the previous marriage, that's the feed law. I must say that this has also been pointed out by the secretariat, which says: "In view of the proposal for a law on the proposed sub-legislative regulation of a number of issues, it shows that the constitutional principle of legality, which requires the legislator to define in the law at least the fundamental substantive framework for the issue of rules to be issued by the minister." This is particularly important with regard to the regulation of certain conditions to be met by the entities to which the provisions are addressed and which must already allow the provisions of the law to determine their legal status. Unfortunately, this parental committee, the Committee on Agriculture, was not prepared to respect. This Parliament is probably not ready to respect either. I sometimes wonder why we actually have a secretariat, if its opinion is so little important and can just like that, through the opinion of the secretariat, we adopt laws in such or otherwise. It seems to me that, in essence, Parliament does not carry out its legislative function if it leaves it that, on the basis of some legal framework, the Minister can prescribe for himself, just as he thinks he does. The crown of all is 123 articles, which gives the Minister the opportunity to issue other regulations under this law beyond those 66 articles, which provide for the Minister to lay down more detailed conditions. So he can give them as much as he wants. It is not limited at all by this law to how many sub-legislative acts it will prescribe, for which we fear the introductions of the New Slovenia Group of Members and what we have repeatedly pointed out. This area in Slovenia is becoming too administrative. There's too many rules. Who can follow all these rules? All of this is advocated by the European Union's request. But I'm not sure that's true. On the other hand, we can see that this European Union, if we meet all these conditions, offers us very little. What they have offered us under the quotas that Slovenia could produce when it enters the European Union in the field of agriculture is actually worryingly low and I think that Parliament will also have to talk about it. Once again, we will support this law. However, we warn the Ministry of Agriculture and the drafters of these agricultural laws, come on, limit this number of sub-legislative acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party. The reason is, in fact, the same as in the previous law, as already discussed by his colleague Saša Peca. The fact is, in fact, the law establishes one strange form of ministerial rule in the field of agriculture. And given what the Minister provides for the possibility of determining, deciding, judging, giving, performing, and so on, we shall also come to the conclusion that the Minister will have to adopt, by the end of the year, at least 50 acts under the law, only as far as this law is concerned. I don't know how that's gonna work. And I don't know how that's gonna work out for him. Especially if we see that the law he has presented and that the previous law is in fact very incomplete and inconsistent on our part. The non-consistency of this law can also be ascertained from an opinion written by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly on this law. With regard to the 23nd Article, the Secretariat shall have substantial comments. Few laws have so many comments by the secretariat on the legislation and legal affairs of the National Assembly. This means that those who prepared the legislation of the Minister did not even take the Slovenian Constitution into account in certain segments, they did not comply with the Law on Fundamental Property Relations and anything else. After all, if we let ourselves down a little bit further in the field of expertise, I wonder why there are no specific species of dogs among indigenous breeds, which are just as domestic animals. And they're indigenous breeds. But we've already handed them over to the Croats, and we've given in to the pressure of the Croatian Kinological Union. We have at least three indigenous breeds, it's a Posav racer, an Istrian racer and a karst shepherd. And that's not in here. And if we are already drafting laws or drafting laws that are supposed to apply within the European Union, then be exact, accurate and also write down what is reasonable to write. Not that you are actually making the law to be made, but after the law is passed, but that we will correct it again by law amending the law. We are also convinced in the Slovenian National Party that such complex laws are not adopted in this way. And they can't be accepted. The rapid procedure for the adoption of legislation, which in fact requires careful consideration of each article, and certainly could be improved here. The adoption of such a law by rapid procedure is unacceptable, unless the Ministry of Agriculture is not sufficient to regulate a particular area, but is only concerned with the adoption of the law, whatever it is. In fact, the law itself is, to the greatest extent or, where it is only consistent, consistent in that declaration, in a declaration of conformity with the European Union. It lists all the documents by which the law is to be co-financed or is to be co-financed. However, if we take and look at the articles of this law, there is a whole series of inadequacies and imperfections in the articles themselves. Therefore, once again, the Slovenian National Party will not support this law. It is likely that the law will be passed, just as the previous law has been passed. Because the coalition works the way it has to, and in fact this coalition actually cares little about how it will be with Slovenian farmers, livestock farmers and in general with Slovenia. I am sure that the law will be passed, but it will not have our votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of the problem of livestock farming, and we will also support the proposal for a livestock law. Indeed, the fact that the existing legislation on livestock measures has already exceeded its framework has already been called the 24-year period of validity. And it's actually no longer useful. In addition, this law also brings the so-called Anti-Birocratic Program. In fact, it is necessary to be aware that we hereby repeal as many as 192 so-called municipal laws or decrees on the manner in which animals are fertilised in their territory, adopted under Article 7, paragraph 2, of the Law on Measures in Animal husbandry. This is certainly the real contribution of this law to the Anti-Birocratic Programme and, above all, the fundamental purpose of this Act is to adapt the field of livestock breeding to European Union legislation. And, of course, the common agricultural policy of the European Union. The law is based on the principles of compliance, neutrality, equality of measures, so that the equality of beneficiaries who comply with the conditions laid down in the implementation of public service services in livestock is ensured. At the same time, adequate control is also being established to ensure that all activities covered by the breeding programmes are carried out and, of course, the common basic breeding programme. In short, in the parliamentary group, we will also support the bill along with the amendments of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Sušnik has the floor, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, we oppose the adoption of the law by means of a rapid procedure. The reasons for this opposition are virtually identical, as they were when objecting to the adoption of the feed law following a rapid procedure. The way in which this law is dealt with in the home labour body is still at the heart of this opposition, as we have witnessed the practical conflict of agricultural institutions again. However, there has never been a hearing of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia. We are confident that this law will further exacerbate the conditions of farming, aggravate the conditions of farming in Slovenia and thereby indirectly affect rural development. In its own assessment of the situation and the above-mentioned reasons for the issue of legislation, which, in our opinion, are needlessly so extensive, it is not clear or clear why it would require the adoption of a new European law because we believe that the existing law is satisfactory and satisfactory in the field of livestock. Nor does the law have a clear concept of what to regulate - or just the area of zootechnics, which should probably or should be the goal, but when it is released to other areas, problems arise, either the current arrangements covered by the agricultural law, or other sectoral legislation such as environmental laws and planning laws. In our view, there are a lot of content not included in this law, such as food security, agricultural land processing, land regulation and the like. However, the main observation that has also occurred in the feed law, which appears in general in all agricultural laws, is that these laws are written primarily as resolutions, without any specific definitions and procedures, and that all too much competence is left to the Minister, so that matters are dealt with under-laws and regulations. Clearly or very transparently, the law is written on the skin of those who wrote it. Here I am referring mainly to the biotechnological faculty, the zootechnician in the Family, because in law they are contrary to the other performances and definitions very detailed and extensively stated professional tasks to be performed by this university under this law. Despite the general and not least governmental demands for rationalisation of all public services in the country and the commitments made by the government in this regard, the financial obligations of the state budget are greatly increased by this law and cannot be justified by the new European requirements. The chapters clearly show that already in 2002, this year, costs at the expense of this law increase by over 2 billion and 55 million tolars. It is also abnormal to set out the new proposed Article 83, which produces a new world again, and this world is, as I have already said, wider again in this proposal. It is proposed that 22 different representatives or members will participate in the livestock sector. The law also regulates aquaculture in several articles, which according to us does not belong to this law, but undoubtedly to the law on freshwater fishing. According to the standard classification of activities, fisheries and aquaculture is a specific activity and belongs to the eighth group of the European acquis for which the negotiating bases for the adoption of the EU acquis are already concluded. In this regard, there is also a new Maritime Fisheries Act and a new Act on freshwater fishing, which will also regulate aquaculture or aquaculture, which appears needlessly in the proposal for a livestock law. This is just a few of the most important comments on the content of the law itself. Once again, I would like to stress our opposition to the speedy process. I am confident or appeal to all of you that before the start of the second reading you will support our request that the treatment be discontinued and that we give users the opportunity to give this opportunity to livestock farmers a thorough thought to get a law that is pretentious, professional, good, universally applicable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. There are no applications from other parliamentary groups so that these presentations can be concluded. Thank you. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written applications for the debate, so the discussion of all the subsequently declared debaters and discussers will be limited to 5 minutes. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The same as in the previous law is in this law over 50% of the powers given to the minister. Or, in other words, if we add up the feed law and the livestock law, the Minister of Agriculture, with his professional colleagues and with his services, will have to adopt more than 100 sub-laws by the end of the year. Why am I talking till the end of the year? Both the former and this law are put into a quick procedure for one simple reason. In order to adapt to the European Union and because Slovenia has to close three open chapters by the end of this year if it wants to be included in the European Union, as was said in 2004. So, over 100 submarital acts. Another time. I will be delighted to hear and ask the secretariat for legislation and legal affairs to explain the sixth paragraph of its opinion in the first place: with regard to the proposal for the proposed sub-legislative regulation of a number of issues, it is clear from the Constitution the established principle of legality which requires the legislator to define in the law at least the basic substantive framework for the issue of rules to be issued by the Minister. I would very much like to hear the opinion of the secretariat, the afternoon interpretation of this paragraph. And another thing, with all due respect to my colleagues, also to Mr Sok, who certainly knows much more about this law than I do, even because of the profession. I don't understand how you're going to support this law, but in one sentence you confirm it, and then you explain the shortcomings for five or ten minutes, you point out the shortcomings and so on. Once again, with all due respect, look, no one will go shopping between us, I'll give a comparison, a car that we'll know has 20 or 30 serial errors, but we'll buy it anyway, for the same money as the new car. Because, on the one hand, someone will be able to tell me that I am blocking because I cannot support this law because of countless shortcomings in preventing Slovenia's entry into the European Union. On the other hand, I can be told by the Slovenian farmer that I accept such and other laws against him against a livestock farmer who is not consistent with his activities which do not suit him. And I apologize, but I will decide on the opinion and evaluation that the Slovenian farmer will give me. If he doesn't feel right, I'm going to stick with him, and I'm going to extend all my support to the Slovenian farmer, not to the European Union. Although I agree that it is right to bring both sides together. Let me therefore, on my behalf, not be able to agree that there will be again more than 60 sub-laws in the Minister's domain, which he will have to regulate in one year, in order for the law to be weak, as we hear a number of warnings, that we will nevertheless accept such acts. I will oppose it, and I will also support the procedural process with a procedural proposal for a general hearing to be carried out and for the law to be duly regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. First, I would touch on perhaps one question that would make sense to resolve this marriage, but it cannot solve it. This is the so-called status of insemination centres or the management of insemination centres. We know that it is a custom in the European Union to manage these insemination centres of the breeding organisation. There will probably be a number of complications and questions in this regard, as we transferred this property to the agri-agricultural chamber in the adoption of the law establishing the agri-agricultural chamber. In fact, the implementation phase should be considered here, so that the actual ministry, in cooperation with the agri-agricultural chamber after the approval of the umbrella breeding programme, will also allow the recognition of the breeding organisation to manage the insemination centre. But I would like to touch on some of the issues raised by my fellow Member of the Sušnik in the presentation of the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party. As representatives of the government, as well as of the committee, the opinion was clear that the law was in line with the agri-agricultural chamber. And I didn't have any sense of any kind of dissimilarity. There was only one amendment concerning the procedure, the views on reproduction. But there I think that in the final stage - there has been a clear alignment of different opinions. But second, in fact, in this presentation, my fellow Sušnik would have stopped. Actually, the fact is, we need this livestock law. And I would tell you only two cases: Slovenian legislation is not in line with European Union legislation in the field of breeding organisations. As a result of this disagreement, the Republic of Slovenia requested a transitional period until 31.12.2004 at the first construction of the negotiating points in 1999. On the basis of the new document, however, it is clearly stated in the negotiating points that the livestock law will be adopted by the end of 2001 and that all the regulations under the law will have to be implemented by 31.12.2002. Political parties in this House will probably have to agree. If they speak once, when the European Union is the theme, "we are all for the European Union and we are all for NATO", then when it comes to the concrete question of how to bring our legislation into line with European Union legislation, it is a different language. I am not saying here that there is no possibility that there is another language, but it will probably be necessary to have one consensus in this Parliament, so that the consequences of such rapid adaptation of legislation can in fact be remedied to the European Union in some way, either through financial or through other levers that this country has. There's something else I want to know. You pointed out that this law actually means a new financial burden. I do not see in the budget's explanation the new financial obligations for the budget by adopting this law. It even thinks that these financial obligations will be reduced, because it simplifies, in fact, some bureaucratic procedures that I have mentioned earlier on behalf of the Group of Members, which have in fact meant a lot of financial costs so far. But I think you read it wrong. In fact, the explanation says the following. The public service professionals in livestock trade acquired a total of SIT 697 million by their own activity on the market, which means that the total use of resources was 27.8% for the entire programme of professional tasks in 2001 and SIT 2,5 billion respectively, which means that their own realisation from non-budgetary sources was 27.8%. This does not mean that SIT 2.5 billion is the new budgetary commitment of this country. That is also how I actually understand and have read the explanation for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Sok, you have a replica to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u52	I have a replica. Thank you for your word. I have a replica of Mr. Rokavec. It is so easy to say that this law does not bring any new financial burden, nor is it possible. This law is being enforced, as my colleague Sušnik said, by one great world, which will be a consultative body of the Minister. And if not the other, this world will stand; but the marriage could find another solution. For this matter, it could be laid down to the Minister for Consultation that this is done by the agri-agricultural chamber. After all, why did you set it up if you didn't give it any functions through other laws? They can participate, give some optional opinions and so on, costs this agri-land chamber a lot, of course you passed the cost on to the members and to the mandatory membership and so on, without making any election base and so on. No! No! Under this law, give them a function such as that of Austria or of the European Union, but not of us, the agricultural forestry chamber has the function of a singing society. This is unacceptable, dear gentlemen, and not to say that this law does not bring new burdens. He's bringing them in if it doesn't exactly say in the explanatory notes. But we are not so naive that at least in the opposition we do not distinguish between what is the new cost and what is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, no matter how much I don't think I can replicate myself in the position of the Group of Members. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u55	I think you can. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u56	Is that possible? Good, because it is still Look, I would like to replicate above all the obvious when Mr Rokavec said that it would be necessary to ask what is now with the declared commitment to approaching the European Union and the actual attitude towards laws in this area. [[...]] I don't think we can generalise here, and I'm going to say, the need to bring the European order closer to one carpet, one curtain, one cover for everything that's needed or to justify the quality of the marriage proposals that have been adopted. It just doesn't work. I think Mr Rokavec has seen and heard the debate on the livestock law on the committee itself. It has been clear from this debate that this law is still in need of a public presentation, which cannot be made in the context of a rapid procedure. The excuse that this law should be adopted by 31.12.2001 - which is already behind us - does not really justify it. Doesn't excuse the speedy procedure. As for my claim about non-compliance, let's take the magnetograms and see if the representative of the agri-agricultural chamber was faking or not knowing what was going on when he made it clear that he had not been called or that the agri-agricultural chamber had not been involved in coordinating certain matters under this law. And that, I think, is, I'll say, unprecedented! Because if we know why we are, or if we have pure purposes, in defining the role of the agricultural chamber, which was set up to compensate for things between farmers and the ministry. And now I have the impression that this doesn't happen most of the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u57	Replica, Mr. Rokavec, then a replica of Mr. Juban and then Mr. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Well, I am sure that if only the livestock world is the problem that will create additional financial obligations under this law, then you, colleagues from the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia, probably have found a topic that has no basis to discuss. It is likely that this livestock world will be convened several times a year. And if they receive the cost of a kilometer for this meeting, the other members of the livestock council will probably not need additional funding. Then let us ask ourselves how much new financial obligations this will be for the state budget in the field of livestock, which is the umbrella or basic sector of our agriculture. And if indeed livestock farming does not deserve the world to have livestock as the consultative body of the minister, then we have probably missed the goal, both agriculture and the roofing or parading sectors of our agriculture. Second. Comrade Sušnik, you misinterpreted this. I think you are deceiving this auditorium - the law is perfectly aligned with the representatives of the agri-land chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u59	Replica, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u60	I have only so much to add to this that, given the warnings that 50, 60 additional acts should be adopted, it would be wise to stop discussions that do not interfere with the content of the law, nor do they indicate the problems that might be in the law, and it would be wise to decide as soon as possible and not discuss things that are not in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u61	Mr Juban, of course, you are partly right, but it is important to allow for the opportunity for Members to express their views through replicas in the general debate, even though I hope they will not repeat themselves too much. The replicas are now in the order of order: Mr Kramberger, Mr Sok and Mr Barovic. Please, Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sušnik said that the law was not harmonised. As Chairman of the Committee, I must make it clear that the law is harmonised within the framework of the institutions and institutions concerned. It's been around for almost two years. We've assessed on the board that the law is well-prepared. It's highly professional material. A written document, which could also be seen by colleague Sušnik, was sent to the committee; it also lists the agri-agricultural chamber [[I think the director's signed.]] who says they agree with this bill. It may be an amendment concerning the insemination centres referred to by the representative of the agri-agricultural chamber at the meeting of the committee itself, that he was not aware of that. So, colleagues and colleagues, it's a hoax. I am allowing the possibility that there can be a part of folklore here, but in politics we have this privilege to be experts in all areas when we adopt laws. But today and yesterday we've heard so many demagogic statements from ignorance. Too bad my colleague Jerovsk isn't here when he was talking about chemistry. But this part that we're looking at today, this biological science, if I say so myself, here is biochemistry important. Biochemistry and chemistry, that's two different sciences. But I hope I didn't get too much heat and cook with this show. I would point out once again that the law is harmonised. The representatives of these institutions have agreed with this law, the law is good and I propose that we also adopt it in accordance with the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you. Purely for a short-time fellow Member of the Rokavac. Of course, it's not just this world's cost. If it were just a cost, it would be a minimum. I'll say it again. Half of the articles in this law are terminated by acts under the law. And all these submarital acts are, in my opinion, a cost. They can be a cost to livestock farmers, they can also be a cost to any other level. I'm just going to give you one example. You can trust me to know how these things are arranged at least at the border in neighbouring Austria. We wouldn't be able to find the possibility that there could be a slaughterhouse in which there's only one place where it's slaughtering and processing. We don't allow you to do that with us. You must have, I don't know, five, six, seven, eight spaces. A room for the vet's office, if he never sits in. Of course, there is no such thing in Austrian regulations, but they are already in the EU and we are not yet. That way I could read your articles in a row, which I opened on one side. You have 2, 3, 21, 18, 19 - all end with some sub-legal acts that will solve, I don't know, one condition of equipment for the breeding of a particular type of domestic animal, one technical and technological condition for animal waste management facilities and so on. All of this, of course, can be burdened and livestockized in many ways, and also, I would say, state finances. So it's not just this cost, as far as the world is concerned. And this one doesn't matter either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Barovich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I will briefly repeat to my distinguished colleagues, both Mr Rokovac and Mr Kramberger. True, maybe the law is consistent with this, what, third institution. And Mr Kramberger, I do not recognize ignorance, at least as far as legislation is concerned. I must say that I have been taught by some experts, lawyers who have been following legislation for many years - I speak as legislation, I am not talking about the profession. And they told me that this law in their language is said, "lex imperfecta" or translated, the law is not perfect. And why not? Because - that's how they taught me - in the terms where they empower the Minister for the issuance of sub-laws, these sub-laws do not have all the legal provisions - I am talking about that they should have at least a technical definition - and therefore experts say that this law is "lex imperfecta". Once again, I am in favour of helping the country of Slovenia to join the European Union, if this is really necessary, but above all, I am in favour of the law being as it should be, in substance and in form, and that it will benefit the one to whom it is intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u67	Mr Kramberger, do you have a replica? [[No, no, ……]] Then Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I listened attentively to Mr Kramberger about the content of the demagogies or about my demagogosic performance and about the fact that the strangers are talking about things they don't know. Look, I don't think it's necessary to be too smart, and I don't know how bad of a connoisseur to understand that our farmers are in a highly discriminatory position. I'll just give you one case. The dairy farmers are obviously six times more risky to us than they are to the same farmers in Austria. Look, it's a product of this legislation, these sub-legislative rules, which you claim to be good, that they're supposed to be European. Six times more European, I say. Six times! And if it is necessary that they are six times more European, then make this clear. Tell that farmer over there in the country who's just waiting for the vet to give him a veterinary certificate so he can go to the barn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u69	Look, now the replicas are lined up. Mr. Secretary has joined us at this time, and I welcome him. And perhaps it would not be too much, of course, if you would allow Members to give Mr Minister some clarification regarding the debate that is now being held in some kind of round. If, I mean, I don't mind - yeah. Okay. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. These statements by colleague Barovic and now also by colleague Sušnik said - I have to give an explanation. What Comrade Sušnik has just said about these brain regulations, we have dealt with these things here several times and we have also said what needs to be done and where needs to be changed. That is my absolute agreement, Comrade Sušnik. As for the under-laws, however, colleague Barovic. If we look at the law that I think you quoted it - article 18, when it says, then in the end, "the more precise conditions of equipment for the rearing of individual types of domestic animals are prescribed by the Minister." Now, my friend Barovich, please tell me how you would do this, how would you do this?Or would you prescribe here for every single type of domestic animal in this law, what boxing must be like, what the ventilation in the barn must look like, and everything else? Yeah, what kind of marriage are we gonna have? And we won't have a bunch of paper here. But if we can't trust the experts, because they won't, because the minister won't write it, the minister will also call the breeding organisations, the zootechnical experts, to do it together, because they're ready, after all. But these things change. These things change from year to year, when a new criterion is laid out that there must be fewer animals per square metre of the floor, and then the minister and the government will bring the paper back to us so that we can change that. Is that worth it? Is that why we're here? That's the point of a submarital act. I'm not saying, but maybe there's an abuse, and he sneaks into a submarital act that doesn't belong there, that's possible. But here, I stress once again, this law is harmonised and, in my opinion and even the opinions of many, is well prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u71	Now, Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, an apology for the somewhat later arrival, for meeting with the social partners, me and Minister Potočnik, on the subject of the strategy for further steps in negotiations with the European Union - in short, the current topic. See, the esteemed congregation, in these two days, there has been so much said in this congregation that it holds, and in the vast majority it has nothing to do with the laws that we deal with. And this at a time when we need in this area, above all, an enormous amount of partnership, social partnership, some positive atmosphere, because we are ahead of the most difficult task, because it has been possible to talk, debate and discuss for a few years. It is now necessary to decide and make decisions: either we are talking about negotiations or we are talking about all other things. And, of course, it's very easy to talk at first sight, people like it if you're not in a situation where decisions have to be made. However, decisions are very often harsh. Not because of the Republic of Slovenia, not because of ministers or ministers, not because of the government, but because of the reality that this country has decided to join the European Union. And to enter the grave, a large market of hundreds of millions, where the free movement of goods, capital services, people and where free competition apply, and other rules that we have long been aware of and alerted to. And they also created a new agricultural policy. Thank God that we, as the only one, started with a new agricultural policy, with new payments: European comparable payments. At least we have some groundwork to negotiate. And at least there will be something that we can demand in extremely clear, challenging positions - me as minister and many others. During this time it is possible to say something that is very common, perhaps even the right conclusions, but very often just so, speaking along without any particular argument. I know I'm going to challenge criticism and replicas, but I think I'm going to allow myself to say that, because sometimes things have to be put in a place where they are. Another time. We have also established a partnership in this country in the preparation of this law. From the outset, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber has been actively involved in the preparation of the livestock law, as it has been involved in all other acts of law. Not only the agri-agricultural chamber, but also other social partners, committees, association unions, breeding organisations. By the way, if I may inform this assembly, the chairman of the agri-agricultural chamber attends a meeting every Monday, the weekly College of the Ministry and the authorities in the assembly. For the first and only time, he has never had this opportunity in history, because, as Minister, I want to be a partner; the partner means to take responsibility, but also in some way to be responsible for the joint decisions that we agree on in the context of the partnership. That is why, of course, there are rumors that the chamber here has been ruled out, pure fiction, unrealisticity, and untruth. Here I have the signature of the Director of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, by which it confirms that, on a proposal from the Law on livestock published in the Rapporteur on the subject and on the subject, they have no comments because they participated in it, except for the 11th Article, where they propose a minor amendment. And here we need to speak concretely and correctly; the agri-agricultural chamber was a partner in the drafting of this law and this morning they also stressed when we talked about the second question, that it is also a good proposal for a law. And that must be said clearly and loudly. Next. The Council, which was so much to talk about, is the consultative body of the Minister. Yes, thank God, it is in the interest of civil society to have the opportunity, as well as political societies, to have the opportunity to take part in the invitation of the Minister in the preparation of sub-laws; to avoid the danger mentioned here. However, it should also be said that 50 sub-legislative acts are provided for under this Act, 80 directives of the European Union summarised in these 50 sub-legislative acts. Those who know what regulation means, what the directive means and what the recommendation means, which are the basic three legal dictatorships of the EU acquis, the acquis communitaire, will know that the directives are those that change so often that they need to be integrated into the roof law. Are we going to change the law every few weeks, or are we going to change the law every few months? That's not serious. Are we going to prescribe in the law, I don't know, all the conditions for every animal, from chicken to rabbit, how do all the conditions for entering a domestic animal into the genealogy book have to be met? Yeah, these things change. The family book changes, complements. And, of course, that's not serious. Like yesterday, the law can't say what kind of packaging and what kind of cardboard is going to be somewhere because it changes, and the label changes. That's why we need to be rational here. I wanted to say just that, and I will conclude with this, the esteemed assembly: this law was being prepared after five years ago when the draft was prepared, it was lying in a drawer, again intensely one year - as has already been said, with the cooperation of civil society, with the participation of the chamber and all the other bodies within this civil society. There's been a lot of public presentations. Among other things, we have prepared two large workshops with the participation of foreign partners, with the presence of a chamber and everyone else. We also invited representatives of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the National Assembly. So I think I hope to allow myself to say that the proposal for this law is a good enough proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you. I'll be brief. I owe you an answer, my fellow Member, Mr Kramberger. You asked me what I'd do. Let me tell you: I'm not in the government, I'm not in the Ministry of Agriculture, and I'm not an expert. But I am a Member of one of the 90 and owes me, as all of you, respected colleagues and colleagues, to accept according to my own discretion the best laws. That's why I've been looking into certain things and saying my opinion. And to the gentleman, the distinguished minister. Why are you an insulted minister right now if someone, at least I'm the one, wants to help? I don't talk at all, I don't want to be. I want to help in this national assembly so that the law that will be passed, regardless of the urgency, will be a quality law. Quality Act for the State of the Republic of Slovenia. And in this context, therefore, it is our desire not to adopt laws just at any cost, just to do something. Let's take every piece of advice, every proposal for good, and let's coordinate, because that's why it's a Parliament. And as far as the laws and regulations are concerned, here I return to my esteemed colleague Kramberger. As far as I have been able to teach, some countries in Western Europe, I am talking about the European Union as well, require that, when adopting laws in parliaments, there are already written sub-laws that only and only talk about the norms of some countries, technically regulate the things defined in the law, and do not allow any kind of substantive intervention. Therefore, my concerns about the fact that under-laws - and this over 100 in one year - were to be done, according to precisely such regulations, were somewhat difficult. Thank you very much. And I don't think I'm gonna have to call you back.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So, Minister, you, if you think this is helping you, you can raise your voice as much as you want. But this fact, as far as the regulations are concerned, is being pointed out by the Secretariat. The Secretariat says that the conditions to be met by entities written in law should they seek to establish their legal status. So that's where you speak. With these services, talk to each other and clear up what is at stake. That's what we're telling you. Now, one question. You can answer me or you can't. When you gave us such a nice lecture on what awaits us in the European Union. Your client, if I'm not mistaken, is already running this department's second term. And then I ask you whether you will already make a decision and give land to farmers to prepare for accession to the European Union, or whether you will continue to support and favour agricultural combinations. Only this question if you answer me if you are talking about the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u77	Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Well, it would involve itself so much in this debate, because it seems to me that in the last days, we are talking a great deal and we are concerned about the development of agriculture. And in all these laws, both livestock and feed, there is always a concern of some costs or, in fact, the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture. And if we review or read an explanation of this law relating to the European Union, we find that the livestock sector in the European Union is regulated in those content that are the subject of the common market, which affects the reduction of competitiveness and affect human or animal health in the common market, which is the protection of consumers and affect the environment. At this time, I would say, we are dealing mainly with those laws that address the field of impact on human or animal health and represent protection and consumerism. If we had a market vision ahead of us as to how this livestock farmer should survive on the market, or if we also had before us a bill to talk about improving competitiveness, both on the Slovenian market and on the future common market of the European Union, there would probably be many rules or articles in the livestock law that would try to steer us in the direction that would reduce costs or improve the competitive capacity of our farmer. And since these laws do not explain exactly what the competitiveness of our farmer will be, of course, all this debate is the most about it, and I think that the great weakness, but, in the effort to move agriculture forward, is because we do not have a clear basis for the competitiveness of our agriculture. The fact is that the role and importance of management, both private and state land, is to try, of course, to support agriculture as well as forestry, to ensure sustainable conservation of nature and to survive mainly in rural areas. And maybe we do miss a national programme that shows what we want and then makes it easier to discuss it. So that the livestock law is certainly one of those that will further cause problems due to additional rules. These rules are not verified in terms of competitiveness. As an illustration, we can also say that the veterinary law, which requires extremely strict rules in slaughterhouses - we are actually talking about livestock farming today, but we do not know how we are going to get this livestock on the market. For one farmer who, I don't know, has to bring cattle 200 kilometers away to the slaughterhouse, spends all that money that might enable him to survive, to cover the travel costs and other costs associated with the process in the slaughterhouse itself. Well, we certainly lack at least one network of slaughterhouses in Slovenia, which would then also provide the basis for the development of livestock. It's not like that. I therefore estimate that all these debates are so painful precisely because we do not have enough information on what Slovenian agriculture should look like in the future, and especially in the field of livestock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to replicate my resident colleague, Comrade Sok. I think he's a minister, mag. Franci Booth - we couldn't understand that it was somehow an act when he raised his voice. Far from it. He simply explained how this regulation is flowing within the European Union. And that is what we must accept and perhaps our secretariat, when it draws attention to the issues, has not yet fully adopted this European regulation on the writing of regulations and this legislation. So here I'd like to take in the minister's defense. Comrade Slavko, here you are then we have discussed the livestock law. [[...]] You've opened up the topic of agricultural land, which is the next item, and I don't think that if we ran out of arguments, we'd go to another topic. I'm asking you to stick to the darkness. It is obvious, however, that, at this point in time, there were three laws - one of us still waiting as the 11th point - so many problems in agriculture, as well as those negotiations previously mentioned by Mr Minister, so that we can ask how this rapid change of chief negotiator and also the minister took place. That is to say, we have come to one area when it will be very interesting in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Firstly, I think I still owe an explanation to Mr Webra. I would like to point out that this law regulates the conditions of breeding, selection work as breeding organisations. This part, which covers the area of zootechnics within the framework of the European Union acquis, is an extremely important and extremely difficult area. In no way does he claim that everything else is unknown and nothing is unknown. On the contrary! All things are crystal clear and well-known. On the basis of the agricultural law, 12 European comparable market arrangements were already in place in Slovenia a year ago. In Slovenia we have adopted 12 of 22 market arrangements, as market order knows. These are regulations, which is something that is a fact that you have nothing to translate, but you simply need to summarize and we have virtually the same market arrangements in Slovenia as in the European Union, but we have not yet implemented them for those products that are not suitable for Slovenia or are not as important as rice, bananas, tobacco, silk, flax and the like. So, based on the agricultural law in Slovenia, we have the second year of European comparable: market order for milk and dairy products, market order for poultry meat and eggs, pig and beef and market regulation in the honey sector. These market arrangements are precisely, to be precise, in accordance with the European Union, to prescribe and talk about intervention mechanisms, i.e. the amount of subsidies per hectare or per animal, the intervention mechanisms on the market when they are triggered, how the market price, the target price, the intervention price should be triggered. The mechanism speaks of when a mechanism of private storage, public storage, withdrawal from the market, destruction is introduced. Furthermore, this part discusses in detail the import and export regimes in force, the allocations of quotas, taxes, all of these areas, and this is what we have been defined to be precise, and there is nothing completely unknown, so this is known. The quota part is still missing; this quota part depends on negotiations, and we will, of course, introduce this later, in 2003. Further on, as far as the slaughterhouses are concerned. This question is extremely serious, otherwise it is not related to this law, but since it was a question, allow me briefly. In Slovenia we are facing an ever-increasing market economy. And if a large Slovenian company, for example, decides to make one out of its five slaughterhouses or slaughterhouse-processing plants because of its capital interests, they have done so from an entrepreneurial point of view; but as a country, they have made it difficult for us to get areas where there is no slaughterhouse and people are unable to implement even the emergency laws or if they want the service slaughter prescribed by another veterinary legislation, of course, people must drive these animals far and the costs of this law are significantly too high. So, what's the answer? The answer will be: the introduction of so-called municipal slaughterhouses, which will not be a processing plant, which will not be a plant where it will be carried out, I do not know anything, but only a service slaughter of animals, in accordance with the rules, under minimum veterinary conditions, or an emergency slaughter. And this year, we need to set up municipal slaughterhouses in Slovenia where there are no other options. This is a new category and we have to do this. We'll be looking for private investors, otherwise the state will have to cut in here. I would suggest, however, that the land-related answers - because I believe we have common goals and common views - should then be given in the discussion when the law on the area affected by this issue is on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Since there are no more debaters, I am concluding the general debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues who are in the vicinity of the Chamber or who accompany the debaters from their offices, please join us because we are obliged to vote on the procedural proposal of the S Group of the Socialist Party. There are 42 of us in the hall, so I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues who are in their offices to join us. We therefore turn to the vote on the proposal of the Socialist Party's Group of Members to propose that, on the basis of the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the Business Commission by 203rd Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the second and third parties should consider the law on livestock, the rapid procedure, in accordance with the ordinary procedure. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 43 of us present. There are 47 of us in the hall, so please press one of the keys. Secondly, we will vote on the procedural proposal as presented. We're voting. Unfortunately, the second vote was not successful either. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will hold the third vote in 10 minutes. It's 12:07. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u84	Respected and respected! Thirdly, we will decide on a proposal by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members proposing that the second and third examination of the bill be carried out on a regular basis. This is the third time we've decided on the proposal. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. 21 votes against 32. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision of the sky shall be adopted if it is opposed by at least a third of the Members present. We are voting on this proposal. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 21.1.2002. In order to discuss and decide, I attach Article 2 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article by noting that it is linked to the amendment to Article 55 under order number 1 and the amendments under order number 2 to Article 61. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. Let's vote! It's impossible for us to be present now, 42 of us, but before that, 52 of us were respected! Your Honor! May I have your attention, please? The second time we will vote on the amendment to Article 2. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also deciding on the whole article and then we will move on to the decision on the related amendments. We decide on Article 2 as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 55. It is on page 2 of the review. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. Again, the first vote on the amendment failed. I'm asking for your attention again. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 55. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 61. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The first vote failed again. The second time we will vote on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're going back to the first page of the review. I shall put Article 3 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 44 Members and Members present. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 3. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The 43 or - again votes were unsuccessful. For the second time, we are voting on Article 43. I'm sorry. We are voting on Article 3. As the second time we have failed to vote, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes. We'll resume at 12:26.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u85	Just a note, respectable, respectable! We need to conclude today's session by voting. If we fail to do so because of our indiscretion, we have a meeting on Tuesday to take the appropriate decision. Ladies and gentlemen, for the third time, we will vote on Article 3 in full. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 10 and the two amendments of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. Again, we did not succeed in the vote. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. The second vote was not successful either. Unfortunately, I have no other business option than to break up again in 10 minutes. We'll resume at 12.39 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u86	Your Honor! Before we vote on the second amendment to Article 10 for the third time, let me remind you that we have committed ourselves to the 38th and 39th agenda today, so that we will proceed with the proposals if you intend to continue with the practice that any other vote on the amendments will fail, but I will let you know that we will move on to the 38th and 39th points at the latest at 1:30 p.m., so that we will, of course, end the 10th point. However, I would like, of course, to be able to carry out the consideration and decision-making of the amendments that we have before us by 1:30. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 10. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 11 and the two amendments. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment of the Committee, of which Mr Kramberger is the proposer, and under order number 2 is the amendment of the Committee. Anybody want to talk? Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I just want to explain this amendment for a moment. The amendment to the amendment of the committee is necessary because it is not in line with the forest law because breeders can participate in the production of hunting plans. This is said to be here to replace these words, "co-decision" to be replaced by the word "co-operated".
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it again, I conclude, Mr. Trofenik, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Now I'm going to break the rules a little bit, but the dissatisfaction that I've missed and most of the previous articles that are catastrophic. But I am still asking the proposers, both the law and the amendment, whether this also means that the guide dog used by the blind will not be allowed to go to the private land that is intended for agricultural purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much. You want to answer Mrs. Chadonic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u91	It's just that we're guarding property, private property, and that breeders can ban the passage or the disposal of manure, they dump it on their territory. However, in this typical case, as Mr Villa Trofenik mentions, this would not be the case. That's not true. Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment to the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It was 41 votes against 9. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment of the committee. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 55; we have already decided on the amendment. We still have to decide on the whole article. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 57 and the two amendments of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 58 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 61 and the amendment of the Committee, under order number 1 to this Article, we have already decided on the amendment under 2. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We move to the vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 64 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. There are 55 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. You have also received an amendment from Ambassador Bogdan Barovic, an amendment to Article 68: A new ninth indent is added to the second paragraph, which reads: "A karst shepherd, a Posav driver, an Istrian driver". I am fully opening the debate on this amendment to Article 68. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. With regard to this amendment, of course, I personally welcome the intention of the proposer. I suppose he wanted to do something useful with this amendment for the possession and breeding of dogs, but I must say that in my contacts, including with the proposer, it turned out that, despite the fact that there is a rather richly processed area of the wider range of animals in the introduction, then the law, as such, focused primarily on economic animals, which I think makes sense. I also personally forwarded to the Ministry, as far as dogs are concerned, the substantive design of a special law to regulate the area of possession and breeding of dogs as soon as possible. That is why I do not think such an amendment in this place would be useful because we need complex legislation to regulate the possession of purebred and non-scrupulous dogs, the issue of shelters, the issue of dangerous dogs, the issue of labelling, and which will address the problem in a way that will engage already existing Slovenian solutions in the field of cinema with emerging positive Slovenian legislation. In keeping with the positive intentions of my colleagues, led by Bogdan Barovic, I do not think it is appropriate to support this amendment, but rather to include the intention of this amendment in a new law, which has already been proposed informally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Pece. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. I have a replica of Mr. Kavčič's performance. I must admit that I am surprised by your implementation and opposition to the proposal of the Slovenian national party, given that you are active in connection with the work of the cinematic society. Let me say that your argument, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian national party, is not strong enough to be acceptable, but to leave behind the policy and different views of our political parties. Look, you're saying we'd need a roof law on these matters. Thus, this whole article should be deleted from this law. It's not even a roofing law about cattle, sheep, goats, pigs, chickens, fish, bees. Why not protect the Slovenian indigenous breed in the field of dogs at this time? The adoption of this amendment would not in any way endanger your roof law or roof law, which it will propose, probably, the ministry, but would also define in this law and show that we also in the field of cinematology Slovenians in that direction to develop that we have some of our indigenous belts. Once again, I call on all Members and Members to support the amendments and thus give a very light to the roof law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. By the way, we also have some of the animals in this category already defined in the genetic bank. So at the Ministry we also have this particularly encouraged. Otherwise, the Member's proposal is very welcome, but in fact, I would reply in this sense, as it has been said, that we are preparing specific legislation for this area or, in other words, pure breeds will be able to benefit from this law in the field of family books, while in general this matter will be regulated in specific legislation, which will also have to be touched by shelters and everything else, which has been mentioned and which has been in the hands of the Slovenian public lately. I think we will do everything we can to speed up the drafting of this law and to accept it in this year's National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Two replicas, first Mr. Barovic, then Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I have a debate, so I propose first by the rules of procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u100	I'm sorry. Mr. Pache, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you. As a rule, I am calling because I did not fully understand you, Mr Booth. You're saying there'll be a roof marriage. But it's nice and it's okay. We expect him to be truly well-intentioned. But why would this amendment, the adoption of it, be in violation of the umbrella law on indigenous breeds? I still do not see an argument against this amendment, including this matter in the law that we are considering today. I am still convinced that this would be just one positive norm in this area. I'd like to ask for an answer here, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr Barovic's debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I was thinking of discussing it first, and then maybe I was expecting replicas. Look, I tabled this amendment because of the first paragraph of Article 68, which is perfectly clear. He says, "The autochthonous breeds are under the special protection of the state." I estimate it's good that indigenous breeds of dogs are under special protection of the state. I do not resort to economic, non-economic interests, roof or non-blood laws or bylaws. It is to evaluate, we checked with the Kinological Association of Slovenia that they are: karst shepherd, Posavski racer and Istrian racer of indigenous Slovenian breeds. We estimate that it is right that they are under the special protection of the State. This is what this amendment and nothing else is meant for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Krek, Under-Secretary of State, there is a replica of Mr Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u105	It is likely that this thinking on the part of respected colleagues is fostered by ignorance or by a lack of knowledge of the problem of cinema. We could agree, and in this case I would also support this amendment if the law were to read, "The Law on the Reproduction of Animals." Then I support and I might even be the one to propose such an amendment or be the first to propose support for this amendment. Because this law is called and, of course, here I would also like the position of the Ministry. [[...]] I understand this law as a law to regulate livestock. We are talking here mainly about that part of the animal population that enters the food chain. And this is critical and needs to be addressed. Therefore, I find it illogical to intrude in this law on animal species, even wild game does not belong in it, and it is right that it does not belong in the concept of animals that do not belong in it. After all, there is one big difference between owning a dog, which in modern times is a human friend, a coworker, and between the animal, unfortunately, we breed, for which reproduction we care to enter our food cycle. This is a problem that is completely different. And Mr Minister, if I understand the Minister correctly, he confirms that this law deals with livestock. That is why I also support it in this direction, and I believe that from the point of view of dogs advocated by colleagues from the Slovenian national party, it would be inappropriate for this animal species to be included in this law. However, it is recommended that help be given when it is necessary to co-form and enforce the law on the possession and breeding of dogs.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Two replicas. Mr. Barovich and Mr. Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u107	However, I fully understand the fellow Member or I am trying to understand him. However, I have also read the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 68, which is in its own direction just so that we can understand it as Mr Kavčič does, or we can understand it as we want and imagine it ourselves. In fact, the third paragraph states: ‘In addition to the indigenous breeds referred to in the preceding paragraph, those breeds of domestic animals recognised by the Minister by decision shall also be considered as indigenous by virtue of the role of the recognised organisation.’ It is also important that the fourth paragraph is that the Republic of Slovenia, through ratified international treaties and agreements of this breed, protects the species internationally. I am trying to understand this aspect of education and transport, however, because it is also a matter of breeding and also trafficking with these animals, unless I know enough of other legislation that exists and regulates it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u109	Mr. Kavčič, I would like basically to ask you that you are not offensive to the doctrine of ignorance of cinematic knowledge. On the other hand, you probably know that there is a debate in Slovenia about recognised indigenous breeds, their positive arguments and the efforts of various societies within the framework of the kinological union to gain status, especially the karst shepherd, namely the national status or indigenous breed. You can't deny it. You can't deny it. You can't deny it. Mr Barovic also said at the beginning of his speech that the matter did not grow on its own in the Slovenian national party, but in connection with the various societies that are involved in this and based on a discussion with the opinion of the kinology association. Once again, I propose that this amendment be adopted, because it cannot harm this law or Slovenian legislation in any way. To say that this is not right because it is not the substance of this law is, in my opinion, questionable. And your third argument is that this matter will be governed by some kind of roof law. Ladies and gentlemen, in this National Assembly, a large number of laws await us in the procedure. A further number of laws are defined only in thoughts or in sub-laws. Why wait for a marriage solution if we can solve this today by adopting this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Creek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I believe that the initiative is, of course, in place. However, at least two indigenous breeds of dogs are missing in this list, which is a Koroan brand and a resuscitated racer in the publications of the Ministry and in the programmes of the Ministry of Genetic Banks. However, I would like to point out that, in Article 1, paragraph 3, of the Law, we have clearly defined that the Minister may also lay down more precise conditions for the rearing of other species of economically important animals. Thus, when dogs are classified as purebred breeding animals, this area may be regulated for the management of genealogical books, in accordance with European legislation [[Directive 174/91]] which provides that if, as breeding animals, they are placed on the European market, zootechnical documents must be comparable. In this respect, the law regulates the area. Of course, so far this area has not been regulated and it is difficult in the law to write these breeds if the current process of zootechnical legislation in Slovenia has not yet been completed. Therefore, the law provides first for the establishment of a breeding organisation according to zootechnical rules. When the organisation for the management of genealogical books in the field of cinematology under this law is confirmed as a recognised breeding organisation, we will announce in Brussels that this organisation for the field of cinematology in Slovenia is recognised, this means that its documents are recognised, that the procedure for the recognition of breeds and, at the same time, the recognition of indigenous breeds is initiated. The law provided for all these procedures, but the matter has to be recognised under some procedure. However, there is an initiative on the ground and the law has an open opportunity to recognise other indigenous breeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Pache. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u113	I thank you for your positive implementation, and indeed. You added two more breeds. Let me remind you, however, that if the amendment is now adopted in the second reading, we will complete it in the form of an amendment for the third reading. I still don't see why we should reject the amendment. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on Mr Barovic's amendment to Article 68. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 22 to 18. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 68 as a whole. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47, against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We return to the 4th page of the review of the amendments, which I am putting to the debate and decision Article 72 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Again, we failed to make the first vote. May I have your attention, please? I think there's enough of us in the hall. This is the second time we've voted on the amendment of the committee. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! The first vote was not successful. Secondly, we vote on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 74 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! The first vote was not successful. This is the second time we've voted on the amendment of the committee. Let's vote! The second time, too, was not a successful vote on the amendment to Article 74, so that the third vote will take place at 13.19 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u115	Please take your seats. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment to Article 74. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 47, against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 79 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 35 votes against 7. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the seven.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 80 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 41 votes against one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 82 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Kramberger. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Given that you have received an additional opinion from the secretariat on this amendment on the bench, I would only like to apostrophe it in particular. It's the next one. The amendment also covers as a source the concession fee for bets in competitions with animals and provides for it as a source of funding for organisations, I think, which deal with livestock. We would like to point out that, at this point, this amendment is, in fact, contrary to a system that is regulated for gambling, where the concession fee is actually divided by the system under Article 74 to the last percentage, as applicable: 2% goes to both foundations and 50% to the state budget and 50% to local communities. Therefore, we believe that the concession fee is now in the second regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! The amendment signed by the majority or all Members of the parliamentary groups is as follows. It is true what the lady in the secretariat said about legislation and legal affairs, but it is also about the drafting of the law or the amendment of the law on gambling, because this is the basis in this law that will put a bet on competing horses. Now this gambling law makes it impossible. If this amendment is not adopted, then we remain in law, which, of course, does not allow our country to develop a competitive part or a competitive part of all sports horses in our country. In Slovenia we know Kasaška competitions, galloper competitions and, of course, other types of sports competitions with horses, because they are defined in the industry of the Olympic part of the competition and, of course, this sports competition, which is not yet a betting part because it is not yet prescribed by law. This fear that the law on gambling will not be in harmony with this law on livestock can’t hold. Let me say that the project group is also working, including the Ministry of Finance, which is preparing the amendment, a new law on gambling, because it will give this law the opportunity, in short, to the Ministry of Agriculture, which will take over, not the Olympic part of horse sport under its auspices, as do the other European countries. Therefore, I ask you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, to support this amendment, because this is a fundamental article of this law, so that it is possible to allow the normal development of betting on sports horses. Let me also say that it is difficult to expect this law, or this amendment, which will normally allow all breeders and, of course, sports horse competitors to talk about establishing, as I said before, a competitive betting component of horse sport and, of course, of other animals, through the ministries or through the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I fully support the idea, only God help the system of our rule of law, if that is the case, with regard to horse betting in the livestock law. This is where the transparency of our legal order begins and ends, or I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sušnik. Mr. Onion, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u122	Yes, thank you very much. My colleague, Ambassador Vissiak, only so much. If it is possible on the part of those who have not been allowed to speak seriously to the ministry, including the government or the minister, to establish a competitive betting component of sports industries such as cashiers, gallopers, to support. To know how other European countries have this set-up, we can look at the legislation they have in Italy, France, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, the Netherlands and so on, and in particular Sweden and Finland. I am confident that the SDS Group will also support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much. All I have is a question for the government, how it looks at this matter, because I don't know where it is yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u126	Yeah, or it'll be, as they say, my point of view, because I don't have a government view of it. It is certainly true that a comprehensive solution is being prepared by the Ministry of Finance. Personally, I'm unhappy that this is taking too long. Thus, it may not be wrong to support this, given that it gives the opportunity to arrange it in such a way at least in the intervening period.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u128	However, I must point out from the position of the Secretariat that effective and effective standards should be adopted. But if they haven't yet, you have to make a transitional regime when they will. The rule of law requires that the rules governing matters be adopted. From this point of view, we note that we do not have a substantive objection, but at this point such a norm is contrary to one other system, let it be a classic game that has there an arrangement for the distribution of concessional action, let it be a special game of luck, which also has in the law on gambling. From this point of view, this standard also raises the question of whether this moment is effective at all and that is what we are obliged to draw attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Because you've actually touched the contents of the problem itself and also the lucky players. This concession also prescribes that, perhaps the one who will have a concession, which will also satisfy all those who will bet. But it is mainly a system that will regulate, through this law, the promotion of horses, or quality sports horses, according to the system we know in other European countries. No European country knows that this would be regulated by the Ministry of Finance because it relates to raising animals, in short, horses, horses - we speak generally. But it's all going through the Ministry of Agriculture. It is therefore necessary that this is also incorporated into this law as an integral part of this law. For strikers as a game of luck, however, it will certainly be prescribed by law or by law that the concessionaire will essentially satisfy the sentences. However, it is also clear in the law that 20% of the funds go to the Ministry of Agriculture because it regulates the situation of horsemen, in short, sports horses and, of course, those who are also defined by "forests" or quality horses as sports horses that bring income to both countries and, of course, to all individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u132	I'd only remind my fellow onion that he's not with anything. [[...]] [[It's incomprehensible.]] From what he said from what the representative of the secretariat said. [[...]] He merely gave a new explanation as to why this is beneficial and necessary. I agree with him, too. But if there's something in our pants, then we can fix the game law for ourselves, and you know that we split it between these two foundations and healthy when we have a legal basis there, and we'll do it. You don't even start building the house, so first you build the raufnk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Onion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I'm an onion, yeah. Thank you very much, Mr. Lavrinz. You wanted to say what we already have in the gambling law, but let it exist, but we must not rush into it and adopt something that would provide the basis for amending the gambling law. And that's exactly what I'm trying to do with this amendment. What I have already said in the introductions, the project commission, including the Ministry of Agriculture, the Office of Gambling, the Ministry of Finance, Members, representatives of cashiers, representatives of riders, racers, are in the project group that co-creates the amendment of the law itself. And that will be the basis if this is to be adopted or in any case necessary, unless this amendment is adopted today, of course, to go back to the correction of the livestock law itself, because there will certainly be a change to the gambling law. However, I am sure that not only this article or this amendment will not live in six months, but the whole marriage, I am sure, will not live in one year at all. Therefore, we will not do any harm if this amendment, in short, prescribes this article, which is clearly stated in the amendment itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 82. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. 20 votes against 27. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 27.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. As announced, at this point, I am terminating the consideration of the amendments tabled to the proposal for a livestock law, the second is being considered. I thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation, including the representatives of the secretariat, very much. And we're moving on to Treatment 38. Agenda items - Proposal for a Decision on the amount of funds belonging to individual political parties from the State budget in the summer of 2002 and in the summer of 2003. The draft decision was tabled by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly for consideration. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy as the parent working body. Does the rapporteur wish to present the opinion of the Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There were no written submissions to the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 39. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the 2002 Thermal Programme of the State Assembly The President of the National Assembly submitted a proposal for a future programme of work for the 2002 National Assembly to the Assembly. It is prepared on the basis of the rules of procedure and takes into account the time needed for Members to work in the electoral units and the time to work in the parliamentary groups and working bodies. The proposal for a work programme was coordinated at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 21.12.2001. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you very much. In the future, I would like to say what I have already said to the College and it does not apply to this concrete timetable, because this opportunity is already delayed and is considered to be future, it is said, for the following years. I believe that the National Assembly should take into account the winter holidays in its work or that it would be appropriate to take into account the winter holidays and that it could partly enable those Members and Members of Parliament who have children to somehow adapt the work of the National Assembly to these holidays. I don't think that's going to hurt any of this work, just so that the sessions are properly redistributed according to the holidays. I think we could take this into account, and it's just a matter of good will and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a future programme. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 36 votes against no one. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed programme of work of the 2002 State Assembly has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. My colleagues and colleagues who are leaving, I ask you to take one more second, because we owe it to you to take another decision. I note that the following items of the agenda remain unfinished: 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37 and 40. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that those points be postponed to one of the following meetings of the Assembly. In accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the representatives of the parliamentary groups may present their position. The debate of Members is not possible. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u138	Well, if that's what this is gonna be, okay, I'm asking for a procedural decision. Dear Vice-President, we have until the end of today's session another 20 minutes. I'd like constructively to finish or move on to point 10. Because I'm scared, I'm afraid, and let me say it. That this is again a structure, a structure of someone in this crowd of 90 people, that the government will design a good countershop again, and I will tell the Slovenian national party about the amendment of Article 68 and we will have our proposal against the government proposal at the next meeting, and of course our proposal, for, I am talking about the breeds of dogs, will fall. I see no reason, Madam Vice-President, that we could not, in 20 minutes, complete at least another reading of the 10th point, perhaps even finish the third reading and decide on the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u139	Mr. Barovich, thank you very much. Of course, this debate did not fall within this framework. My sincere desire, too, to address the amendments to the point that we interrupted on the 10th point of the proposal of the livestock law, was to conclude it today, because this would, of course, allow us to have one less transposed point. Unfortunately, you were able to observe what was happening on your own. And with the best of intentions, we would not have succeeded, given the way in which Members worked, when we had to or failed to vote on the amendments in every amendment, and we stopped working for 10 minutes. With the best of will, today we could not finish this point by 2 p.m. due to the conduct of our colleagues and colleagues already described. I ask, who wants to give the opinion of the Group on the transfer of points? You have that right, too. Thank you very much. Since no member group wants to give its opinion again, I conclude the debate. We move to a vote on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 6. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Just a minute. I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Before we break up, I would like to inform you of the conclusions of today's College on the continuation of the consideration of those points which we have failed to address today or have failed at this meeting. The January meeting was the most extensive in terms of agenda items and their complexity. Therefore, it happened that some of these points remained for transmission. I propose that we do this in the third week of January between 12 noon and 3 p.m. in accordance with the agreement between the leaders of the parliamentary groups. I have agreed with the presidents of those working groups that have meetings scheduled for this time to be moved to the morning part, and this afternoon we would have enough time to do our work in February. So between 12 and 15, between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. or Friday between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., we could process the subjects we have left behind. Thank you so much for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u142	I'm sorry. In Article 203 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if you allow me a procedural question, I do not want to delay it, writes: "If the National Assembly decides to decide on the law in a rapid procedure, it will bring together all three examinations of the bill at the same meeting." This is the content of Article 203. Are we in violation of this article, or are we not? Please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-01-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u143	Mr. Barovich! If I'm a magician. Vizjak, of course, allows me to explain If he does not object Of course, we have also followed the 10th point in our consideration, but unfortunately the deadline for the meeting of the National Assembly today at 2.00 p.m. [[...]] [[...]] Thank you all very much. I hereby conclude the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. Goodbye.
