ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u1	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. I want us to start the meetings of the National Assembly as precisely as possible. Time is not our ally. Otherwise, if the National Assembly works as expected, we will do all the tasks assigned to Parliament until the parliamentary holidays. I would like to ask colleagues and colleagues who are in the Chamber and thank them for the accuracy of putting voting cards in the voting facilities. That way, I'll have a sit-down. Those who are not yet present, please come to the hall as soon as possible. It's seven minutes past 2:00. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. I'll take a look at the presence. Can I ask my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to come to the hall? At the beginning of our term of office, we had a pretty good schedule, and I think there is no reason for us to change this good practice against the middle and end of our term of office. So I'm going to insist on starting the meetings. Please insert the voting cards into the voting devices, because I will determine the presence in the Chamber. Before this, I would like to inform you, fellow Member and fellow Members, that a number of colleagues have apologised for today's meeting because of other obligations of an acquittal nature. These are colleagues: Pukšič, Pohorec, Bevk, Kelemina - please? Someone excused you, Comrade Pukšič, on your behalf [[My friend Pukšič is here]] - colleague of Peterle, colleague of Plmeniti Jelinčič, Celigoj, Kopušar, and for the beginning of the meeting to colleagues Špindler, Levič and Pucko, and between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. to colleagues Horvat and Potrč. Please insert the cards. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're gonna have to wait a minute. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. Colleagues and colleagues! Please take your seats. Please insert the cards into the voting devices. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! What, buddy? [[A voice from behind.]] There's nothing wrong with the voting device. Then we'll find out again. Can I have everyone's attention, please? As long as there is no perfect peace in the hall, I will not proceed, because it is obvious that the National Assembly is not yet ready to begin the session. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Please press the "quorum" button. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I invited the Prime Minister, representatives of the government, representatives of the Council of State, the Bank of Slovenia and the Council of Justice. I say hello to everyone! Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 15th and 19th extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. The logs are available on the computer network. I'm asking if anyone wants to make a comment, a supplement, a change. I guess not. We're moving on to decision-making. First, on the minutes of the 15th session. We're voting! We vote on the adoption of the minutes of the 15th regular meeting of the National Assembly. 46 present. 41 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 15th meeting have been adopted. As there were no comments to the minutes of the 19th extraordinary meeting, we are moving on to a decision on it. We're voting. I'll ask for your attention in the hall. We are in the middle of deciding on the adoption of the minutes of the 19th extraordinary session. We're voting on the record. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Voting on Minutes of the 19th Extraordinary Session. 49 present. 43 for, no one's against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the minutes of the 19th extraordinary meeting have been adopted. Now we are going, colleagues and colleagues, to set the agenda for the 17th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to 11 July this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with Rule 64(2) of the Rules of Procedure. First, we'll move on to the motions for withdrawal, and I'd like your attention. On the basis of an agreement with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, I propose the withdrawal of those agenda items which are not prepared by the home working body for consideration at the meeting of the assembly. I note that these conditions do not comply with points 16, 17, 18 and 30, so I propose to the assembly that it decide to withdraw these items from the agenda. I propose that we hold a debate on the withdrawal proposal together and, after the discussion on all the proposals has been concluded, we will, of course, vote on them individually. First of all, I give the floor to the rapporteurs of the home work bodies. Comrade Lavrinc, Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee, please. Everyone else has no say, and I ask you to take your seats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must inform all my colleagues that this morning the committee has begun its consideration of the 18th item, this is a proposal for a law on equal opportunities for women and men, a rapid procedure for the first reading to be done, has also been identified by the procedure and will be completed by the second reading tomorrow, so that it will be no later than tomorrow, it is said that the report on the table, including the review of the amendments and so on. Therefore, of course, I would be grateful to my colleagues and colleagues if we left this 18th item on the agenda because it will be ready. Of course, I can't say that for point 17. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. On the motions for withdrawal of points 16, 17, 18 and 30, I ask if anyone else wants a word? We therefore have a recommendation from the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee that the withdrawal from the 18th point of the National Assembly should not be accepted. Anyone else want a word? Perhaps the government would like to communicate its views on these motions for withdrawal? Don't you? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u4	I would ask that if this 18th point could be kept on the agenda, given that it is one of those laws that is part of the package of European legislation and if this condition of committee hearing is met, then there is probably no formal reason why the law should not be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u5	Okay. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I will conclude the debate on the proposal to withdraw points 16, 17, 18 and 30 and we will vote on them individually. First, I will put to the vote the proposal to withdraw from the agenda the draft law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety. We're voting. A motion for withdrawal. 65 present, 56 to, 2 to. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for the withdrawal of the 16th item from the agenda has been adopted. I propose to vote that the draft law on amendments to the Road Safety Act be withdrawn from the agenda. We're voting. 62 in attendance, 54 in, 3 in. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Before I put to the vote the proposal to withdraw the bill on equal opportunities between women and men from the agenda, I should like to recall the argument put forward by the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and the Government's position on this matter. I'm putting the motion to a vote. The proposal was not adopted. Of the 63 present, 13,41 voted against him. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it this point remains on the agenda. Finally, we have a vote on the proposal to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for the 2000 final budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 62 present, 53 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda has been adopted. I have not received any other proposals for withdrawal and I do not see a desire to do so at this time, so that we can move on to the proposals for enlargement. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to extend the agenda by means of a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw the proposed law on investment funds and management companies from the legislative procedure. You received a proposal from the government today. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? Representatives of parliamentary groups? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda with the Government's proposal to withdraw the proposal for a law on funds and management companies. We're voting. We vote in favour of extending the agenda. 59 present, 45 for, 7 versus. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] Comrade Kangler, did you raise your hand? Yes, I understand. I'll give you my word. The assembly will consider this bill as item 2a of the agenda. I'm giving my word to my colleague Kangler for extension. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u7	Just a moment, mate Kangler. Peace in the hall! Just a minute. Please, Comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u8	Dear Members and honourable Members! I propose that we extend the agenda to the following point: addressing the reports of the Slovenian Intelligence Service, the Sowes, the Ministry of the Interior and the Security and Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence for 2001. Indeed, for six years I have been a Member of this National Assembly, not once have we addressed the issue of what our intelligence services are doing, what is the situation in our intelligence services. And, in fact, what we're doing on the intelligence committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u9	Peace. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Only colleague Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u10	I think it is very important that not only we, who are permanent members of this Commission, are familiar with the issue of intelligence services and their activity and work in this Slovenian space, but it is important that you, too, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, become aware of the issue. Because we are also Members and at the same time members of this Commission committed to silence, I propose - and given that quite a few such events took place last year, important - that the Slovenian policy primarily discusses this point of the agenda for a meeting closed to the public, and I think that we will then be able to speak frankly to the members of the Commission on the issue of the Slovenian Intelligence Service. The Commission has also considered all three reports, and there are still discussions. And I think it would be wise and wise for us to have a thorough discussion of this topic in this month's National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. I have a duty to inform you that the material laid down in the Rules of Procedure as a condition for consideration at the sitting is not. If the competent committee prepares a report and proposes to the national assembly that it be placed on the agenda, the College will first decide at the consultation and then the National Assembly. There are no business conditions for extension with your point of view. Anyone else want a word? Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and fellow Members, I propose, as Chairman of the Home Committee, who is somehow responsible for the proposals of laws which interfere with the competence of the Health Directorate, to include in this reference the consideration of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, EPA-1314-II. The bill was tabled by a group of Members following a reduced procedure. The proposal for this law certainly resolves some of the dilemmas expected by insurers, which also constantly refer to the legislative body. It is true that I am coming after a reference, but it is not until the very reference that the necessary conditions have been put in place for the mother's working body to carry out its mission. We did it today. We have fully prepared the bill for plenary decision. Even a number of dilemmas brought about by the proposal have been resolved on the parent’s working body. So I can say that the law is ready for a relatively current decision. It is precisely because of the area that the law solves, and these are some of the expectations of insured persons at the expense of travel expenses, funerals, post-mortems and some other dilemmas that this law resolves, and in particular all too long of the delay in the implementation or service of the Constitutional Court decision, that we almost make sense to bring the law into force. If the scope of the whole material at this 17th regular session is too large, then there is a greater possibility that this bill will be passed on to an extraordinary meeting. That's why I'm asking you to include him. My mother's working body, as I said, has worked hard, and today it's a full-blown marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u13	Okay. You are not only a proponent, but also a rapporteur, the president of the competent working body. We have heard your point of view and also your explanation for the reasons behind the reference. I ask qualified debaters, secretariats, parliamentary groups, whether they want a word. I guess not. Then I will move on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by proposing a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act. We're voting. I ask the National Assembly to vote. 67 present, 59 for, 4 versus. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] This is a short-term proposal. We will decide on a shorter procedure for the adoption of this law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. Do qualified proponents or qualified speakers want a word? I guess not. I put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. If at least a third of the Members present oppose him, such a proposal will not be adopted. We are voting on a procedural proposal for a reduced procedure. 46 in, 2 in, 52 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I note that we have also taken this decision with regard to the proposal for this law. We are moving on to decisions on proposals for the adoption of laws on a rapid basis. We have a proposal from the government that has tabled a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on money laundering prevention and proposes that we adopt it quickly. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the law by means of a rapid procedure. He wants to speak to the chairman of the committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do other qualified debaters want the word? Secretariat? Emissary groups? If there is no such debate, we will move on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote on a proposal to deal with the law quickly. This proposal is adopted. 41 for, 1 for 52. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on European Council workers for consideration by the assembly. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. I'm asking, do any of the qualified discussers want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we will vote on the proposal for a rapid procedure. Please, if you vote. 49 in attendance, 36 in, 1 in. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that we have accepted the proposal for a rapid procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on equal opportunities for women and men for consideration by the assembly. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Do qualified debaters want the word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. We vote that the proposal for a law on equal opportunities between women and men should be adopted quickly. Peace in the hall. This proposal is adopted. 41 of the 55 present voted against it, no one opposed it. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts. The Council proposes to adopt it on a rapid basis. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? Nobody. Then we will vote on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 53 present, 40 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that that proposal has been adopted and that the law will be dealt with quickly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the restrictive measures law for consideration by the assembly. The Assembly proposes that we adopt it quickly. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? Nobody. Then I will put this motion to a rapid vote. I ask that the National Assembly vote on it. 55 in attendance, 39 in and 2 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I note that that proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for public undertaking obligations of the Slovenian Railway Company, d.d. from loans hired to finance the maintenance of public railway infrastructure. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Do qualified discussers want a word? No, no, no. Then I will put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal to deal with the bill in a fast procedure. This proposal was adopted by the National Assembly, which voted 39 out of 53 present, 9 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on the implementation of an agreement on wage policy for the period 2002 to 2004 for consideration by the Council and proposes that it be adopted in a rapid manner. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? Nobody. I put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal for a rapid procedure. 58 present, 41 for, 8 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that we have accepted the proposal. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on proposals for the adoption of short-term laws. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled a proposal for a law amending the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] As is usually the case when deciding on a proposal for a hearing following a reduced procedure, I would point out that such a proposal will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on the proposal for a short-term hearing. 55 present. 42 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal for short-term treatment has been adopted. Thus, respected colleagues and colleagues, we can move on to a decision on the draft agenda, as we have received by reference, and complemented by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the draft agenda as a whole. We are voting on the draft agenda as a whole. 66 present. 56 for, 1 for. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the agenda for the 17th meeting of the National Assembly has been adopted. I have no other notices, except to remind you of the letter you received recently to discuss initiatives and questions on Thursday, 20 June, in the afternoon following the meeting, beginning at 2.30 p.m. You are informed that the Prime Minister, due to international obligations abroad and together with ministers and ministers, will respond to questions and initiatives by Members on Thursday at 2.30 p.m. That way we can move on to 2. Agenda item - Re-Decision on the Law on the return of moisture to the public telecommunications network. At its 77th meeting on 23 May this year, the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of the first sentence of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to decide again on the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network. I invite the representative of the Council of State, Mr Branko Grimes, to explain the Council's request to the National Assembly. You have the floor, Mr Grimes. But I'm asking everyone else not to disturb his performance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To all gathered on behalf of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia a very nice greeting! At its meeting, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision requiring, pursuant to Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to decide again on the law on the return of investments to the telecommunications network. The Council of State based its decision on the fact that the adopted text provides for investors to be reimbursed for the proportion of so-called overinvestments, i.e. those who have substantially deviated from the existing ones, and between 20% and a maximum of 40% in those cases where people entered into contracts between 1991 and 1994. This means, of course, that those who have invested in the telecommunications network would be harmed, contrary to the principles of the rule of law and such a solution, and therefore, according to the Council of State, it is also not consistent with certain provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, including Article 2, under which Slovenia is a legal and social state. In doing so, it is also important to note certain circumstances which have already followed the procedure itself. Indeed, I would certainly not be faced today with the request of the State Council if I had already announced the amendment - as far as I am aware, Mr Trofenik has tabled it - by which these investments would be reimbursed in full, otherwise not revalued, but without any interest to be understood, but only so that the claims or expectations of the beneficiaries would be fully met. They have now assessed that this proposal is, of course, unacceptable to them and therefore it is clear that they already have a meeting of the State Council, that they have shown thousands of signatures for the submission of the referendum initiative, and that they have also made sure that more than 30 Members already have a promise that if today the National Assembly is to vote on the veto of the State Council, they will support their request and submit a request for a referendum in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The question of the principle of rationality is, of course, raised here, and in fact, the State Council wanted to follow it. Rather, he wanted to achieve the goal of allowing the whole process to be renegotiated in order to renegotiate. For from the discussions we had, both with government representatives and with representatives of the beneficiaries, it was obvious that there was sufficient room for such a compromise to actually occur. However, the only condition for this to happen is that, of course, we do not face a referendum, so that the matter goes back to square one and that, therefore, today, the National Assembly does not vote in veto. Therefore, on behalf of the Council of State, I propose to the National Assembly not to adopt this law when it is voted on. This makes our request justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Branko Grimes, for explaining the world's request. I ask if the Secretary of State wants to speak as a representative of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. At the time of the adoption of this law, there have been no absolute new elements or arguments in the National Assembly which would lead the proposer of this law in any way to the proposal not to adopt the law. Also, the argument presented here by the State Council has been answered and rejected several times by the State Council. We therefore propose that the National Assembly approves or adopts the law as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The request was addressed by the Committee on the Economy. He wants his president's word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to the vote. At this point, I would like to warn you. Please have an explanation for your vote. [[...]] At the same time, I would like to point out that in the re-decision in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the national assembly should vote in favour of the adoption of that law, i.e. 46 or more. In this vote, I will ask for total peace in the Chamber. My friend Pukšič wanted to explain his voice and I'm giving him this opportunity. But I'll give you this when the National Assembly settles down. Please, Comrade Pukšič, you have the floor, but not everyone else. My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u18	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Many of the substantive arguments are that such a law, as adopted, is not reaffirmed in the National Assembly. I believe - of course, this law has its history for quite a long time, five years, or more than five years, from 1997 until today, this is actually half the period of LDS rule in the Republic of Slovenia. As early as 1997, the National Assembly ordered the then government to draft a special law addressing the issue of returning investors to the telecommunications network. In all five years, the argument of power was in fact valid. The argument of power, for the first time in the government, that it did not draw up a law within the mandate from 1996 to 2000, since in the coalition, liberal democracy was strongly opposed to such a law. This was also followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court, and the argument of the Constitutional Court’s decision did not convince the Government, and once again the argument of power was valid. Secondly, many substantive discussions were held in the National Assembly at the time of the three-fold consideration of the Telecommunications Act in this second term, both in the first or previous term, and now I will not speak again about the arguments raised. However, I hope that the argument will prevail today - at least three of them speaking in favour of the fact that this is a bad law - one of the substantive arguments that the association of beneficiaries who invested in the construction of the telecommunications network stands for over 160,000 citizens and citizens. Other substantive arguments are substantive discussions, which were long and quite, that is, very substantive, not political, but substantive, in the State Assembly at the end of last year. The third content argument, which speaks in favour of receiving 46 votes in the re-decision, is the veto of the Council of State. The fact is that it was not a contractual relationship with the beneficiaries, a voluntary contractual relationship, because these contracts were concluded in a single-party system when the State was not a legal one, and they were not parties, so the parties to the contract were on the other hand. The fact is that this law will not result in any funding coming from the state budget. No means. But the property, the piece of property that the owner of the country has distributed to the known owners, will not result in any increase in the burden on the economy or in the reduction of economic competitiveness, but only the division of part of the property will in this case become a little bit more fairer, and those who have built Telekom, who have thus created it, will become partial owners of what is, of course, normal in the rule of law. I will therefore vote against this law myself, and if today only the argument of power prevails, then they must also take full responsibility for the following procedures, which are likely to follow. This is a referendum and a referendum decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u19	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Comrade Sok now has the floor to explain his voice. Anyone else then?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u20	Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, I welcome you very much, and I myself announce that I will vote against this law, as well as all Members of our Group. I come from an area that is economically in an extremely difficult situation in our Slovenia. This is the area of northeastern Slovenia, Prekmurje area, Slovenski Goric area, Haloz area. In these areas, most people have invested in the development of telephony, but I would like to point out that they have not invested only in the development of telephony; they have actually invested in the entire municipal infrastructure they needed. In addition to municipal infrastructure, they invested in schools, invested in roads, invested in kindergartens, maintained the landscape heritage, and could even list. So telephony is just one of these ways of investing. I'm sure we wouldn't be talking about this today if Telekom hadn't privatized himself if Telekom hadn't been given some other form of ownership in this transition society. But since this is the case, it would certainly be fair and fair for those people who are as valuable as Telekom to be able to create a reciprocal return to what they have invested. I am convinced that the expectation of an association of beneficiaries was legitimate and realistic. They did not claim capital interest and revalued. They were willing to accept at least 80% of what they invested. Of course, the government and the ruling coalition did not want to listen to these proposals, and so at least it listened to the state council and I am very pleased and I must commend the State Council that this time it has only voted the procrastination veto on this law, because it will now be clear which Members, whose 46 Members will vote that those who first invested there in 1974 and 1980, will virtually not receive anything from their contribution. Because 20% minus the unpaid connection, which, of course, was not paid at the time, in practice means that they will not receive anything or more of any change. On the other hand, we are also aware that certain individuals, such as insurance companies and other property in that country, will recover from this property. I'll vote against it. This law seems unfair to me and unfair to all those who have built this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Comrade Sušnik now has the floor and is followed by his colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! I will vote against the re-confirmation of the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, because I believe that this law has caused injustice to a good part of Slovenian property or that this law, which was passed in this national council, has deepened the gap between urban areas and between rural areas, from which most beneficiaries rightly expect to recover the excessive contributions they have invested in and for the purpose of obtaining a telephone connection. In its explanation of the objectives and principles of the law, the applicant stated that the purpose of the adoption of this law is to equalise the conditions and ways of obtaining telephone connections, irrespective of the place and time of the acquisition of telephone connections. It's beautifully written, by the way. The legislative proposal that we are deciding on, however, deviates significantly from this objective and is far from getting close to it. I would only like to mention Article 4 of the Law, which defines the proportion of return, as we have heard from the predecessors, allocates to beneficiaries depending on the time period of obtaining the telephone connection of all between 20% and 40% of the real overpaid. This I think is highly discriminatory, inconsistent with the Constitution and contrary to the principles of the rule of law. I would like to draw attention to the second paragraph of Article 12 of the adopted legislative proposal, which states that the amounts referred to in Article 8, paragraph 3 and 5, of this Act shall begin to be returned to the beneficiaries within three months of the privatisation of the State interest in Telekom. This indent of Article 12 of the legislative proposal, in my deep conviction, is moving the beginning of a return to an indefinite future and is not realistically expected, given the complications that are also related to the non-acceptance of this proposal, which is still somehow linked to the privatisation of Telekom in order for this to happen in some real time. I will also not vote in favour of the marriage proposal because of the way in which the contributions are made, due to a defined way of returning, which is highly over-ministerial and too complex and too long-lasting. In view of the latter, it is said that it begins to return only after the privatisation of the state stake in Telekom, and taking into account the complex process of applying the refund of excessive deposits, it is even clearer that any return has been diverted to the distant future. Finally, I will also oppose this proposal because the adoption of this law also reflects the attitude of the National Assembly, this Parliament, to the countryside. The adoption of the law is in total contravention of the principles that we hear several times in this Chamber, with the principles that should make it difficult to bridge the gap between urban settlements and rural areas and the gap in rural development. And I think that this bill does not help in anything to stop rural displacement, to stop the negative trends that are present in Slovenia and that are still worrying. It's not a good trip. I am confident that, regardless of today's outcome of the vote, we will still meet with this bill and that there will be a lot of talk on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Comrade Sušnik. And now I give my word to my colleague Jerovšek, my colleague Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I also believe that the enforcement of this law, which the ruling majority obviously wants to encroach on this national assembly and investors in the public telecommunications network, would be criminal. In the situation where Telekom is owned and privatised, it is quite clear that the only principle that comes to mind here is that investors who once contributed to the development of this network are returned to their contributions. It is 150 or 160,000 investors and their many families who are flattered by the application of this law. This law you're poisoning is not a law on return, but it's a law on decommissioning. I firmly believed and believed that there would never be a need for this House, this National Assembly to decide on laws that interfere with the trade shop of classical instruments of dogmatic regimes from the past, such as confiscation, expropriation and so on. I ask you whether you are prepared to explain to this National Assembly what these 160,000 people from demographically endangered areas have done wrong to make them, by the logic of the previous regimes and the previous system, anti-human elements. Because in previous totalitarian regimes, anti-human elements were exploited by their assets. Where is the basis for the eligibility of such revolutionary measures today and in this House. Since I am against the enforcement of dogmatic proposals contrary to the principles of the rule of law, I am, of course, against the enforcement of such a law in this House. I think the Slovenian government should apologize to the 400,000 people who will be punished by this. That it even made sense to throw sand in their eyes and promise them a return. What 20 percent of the cartridge is not actually available, these 20 percent will be able to apply in the best case scenario in 3 years. With a bunch of gibberish, bureaucratic complication and all that. You know exactly what you're preparing, what kind of sand you throw in people's eyes, and yet you insist. I hope that this state world will be too clever to resist this logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Kramberger. He will be followed by a colleague of Peče.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm actually now in the dilemma of how to act at this point. Should I support the law or follow the proposal of the State Council? See, the area of the Slovenian Mountains is, I hope to say, one of the more affected, as far as the investment in the telecommunications network is concerned. But look, if we reject the law today, then we don't have the marriage. I also regret that the law did not arise in agreement and cooperation with the association, but was created, so there was no agreement between the association and the government. We have adopted a law in which we have determined this 20 to 40 percent, which I personally think is absolutely insufficient, but after all, if we reject the law today, we do not have a law. There's no record of a government coming with another law. And the question is, what will be the fate of the law if we write it to the Members? So personally, I think it's better that we support the law and make any changes to the law. I think it's a better way. And that's why I'm going to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u27	All right, buddy Kramberger. My colleague Peca now has the floor, followed by his colleague Mamić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u28	Your Honors are here! They once said, "The law is the law, because it's the law." However, I do not believe and believe that it is the task and duty of this national assembly to adopt such a law that will positively reflect on people to adopt such a law as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has ordered it to adopt, as the previous law adopted by this same national assembly. And that, as long as the National Assembly is facing a bad law today, and in my personal opinion we are talking about a bad law today, it is the task and the right of Members to reject this law, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will join a new law, one that will not place the citizens of our country in an unequal position. Historically, as we witness in this law, and viewed territorially, as we also witness in this law. In the Slovenian National Party, the proposal for a return law at our third reading 16. 5. 2002 we didn't support. We have supported it because of the four basic moments, namely, the disagreement with the content that we are criticizing today, the continued disagreement with the way and sharing of returns, which we also agree today, due to the ignoring of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its negotiations in the drafting of the law, the way in which the government continues to function until the time that the Government is again, or when we receive by the Home Minister, the same answer to the issue as it was at the third reading - we see that the ignorance of the government continues in this area - and, of course, because of our assessment of the impossible requests from the 1994 documentation and beyond, which will be required of those who will try to recover what they have invested in particular areas and in particular areas of our country. I am personally pleased that the state council voted veto. I am personally pleased that he voted veto and thus gave the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the opportunity to reconsider the law, because, if the Council of State has vetoed it, it is reasonable to consider the meaning of this law and, on the other hand, the Council of State has once again made a decision on the appropriateness of this law to us Members. And so speaking of a better marriage than no marriage, I don't think it's appropriate. I think such statements deserve even criticism, but they should be judged by others. I personally expected things to happen within the framework of the State Council, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would imagine little in the presentation, in its views, to give different views, and that the views and opinions of the State Council would also be followed by members of the National Assembly, those who gave positive support or those who gave support to this law in the third reading, by which we thought that the parliamentary procedure was concluded. Today, we have heard several times that even if a qualified majority national assembly today accepts this so-called fourth phase of procedural decision-making, we can find ourselves in the field of another referendum. What are we gonna do about it? I think it makes sense for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia today to consider whether it makes sense because of the stubbornness and more than that, that I will not say that they originate solely with the LDS, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, this country will once again enter the referendum decision. But I don't want to be too long. The substance of the bill is estimated, my assessment, given that I am talking about the explanation of the parliamentary vote, and at the same time, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, comes from three grounds. On the one hand, the three foundations set by the Government, on the other, the National Assembly in Slovenia's recent history. Firstly, the Law on Public Companies, which provides for the definition of infrastructure facilities and installations or networks as owner of the Republic of Slovenia in this field. In short, to a certain extent it's nice and right, because someone has to have it at their disposal. But this new owner, this is the Republic of Slovenia, transferring all this, once so valued and so sung common property through self-contribution, through various payments until last year - I stress, the public company Telekom d.d. Public company Telekom d.d., a public company that refers to its activities under the Public Economic Services Act, whose primary purpose is to provide public interest, low price, best coverage and so on. On the other hand, until last year, Mr. Pahor, I see you have something to tell me, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u29	Your time's up. I see you're very skilled at doing so many substrings in the sentence that you don't have to make a dot. Please finish. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you. On the other hand, we see d.d., which denotes a capital company and an interest in profit, which, of course, is the basis of the company law and which makes sense under the company law. I'm gonna put the good part down. Mr. Pahor, chairman, just give me 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u31	I can't because they apply to all the same rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u32	Good. I'll take five seconds. The draft law will not be supported by any members of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Please, my friend Mamić, here comes my friend Rupar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you. I welcome all present. I already said last month, when we discussed this thing on the board, that it was actually my idea to cheat. In fact, I can't understand that the PTSD, which had all the monopoly, has gone to total loss since the start. It just doesn't get in my head. So it's said that the PTSD was all non-experts, so I don't use any wrong terms. And now that they've counted and if it's now under Telekom and so on and will be property, there are also some shares. Why don't you tell those people who have invested at least a large sum of money why don't they get a share? And even if only one tolar share is worth it, let those shares be given to the one who invested. That would be fair. And you could get less than 20%, say. That would be much fairer, and the country would also save something. Then I don't know why one 20% and one 74% if you've been investing and so on. And it's supposed to be the same for everyone, say, on average 30%. I don't understand that either. Then I don't understand why time intervals are: once is six years, once three years, once four years, and so on. So the longer the interval for those who have invested more money, and now you're going to have to pay less. Of course, if it's 20% by 1980 - it's also a scam, I'm sorry. And in all of this, I simply feel that this marriage is very bad, and I do not intend to support a bad marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Comrade Mamic. My friend, Rupar. I warn colleagues and colleagues that colleague Rupar is the last on the list of speakers for explanations of vote. Then will anyone else want a word? No, buddy. Rupar's the last one. Then we'll vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'll start with a replica to my friend Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u37	That's the explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u38	Yeah, yeah, but let me put this together as a -- or a comment, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u39	Please state your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u40	Or as a comment. Let me explain my voice: I'll go against it. But I'll start with a different opinion - well, lady, if you're so consistent, I'd like to see that you're not everywhere. It's not about cheating, you know, it's not about cheating, it's about bluffing. There's a big difference between cheating and bluffing. You cheat someone's shoes, then you do it with the ultimate goal of maybe telling someone that you cheated; when it comes to bluffing, colleagues and colleagues, you say that you will do everything you can to get the money back, that shareholders or those investors in telecommunications will be satisfied and so on, and keep the fig in your pocket. So it's a big difference. I am sure that this law will receive renewed support today. I'm sorry this is a matter of repeated and repeated ignorance of the State Council. I am truly sorry that the state world has no greater significance in this country, but you have decided to play on the basis of the majority. In my own way, I'll say, I'm happy if you accept it. Satisfied with those 35% of those 160,000 investors who are theoretically or statistically also your electorate and you will "spare" them one of the few more slaps. And I'm glad because I'm sure someone will sober up on that as well. The law you're going to adopt, I said you will undoubtedly be, because so much mobilisation and so much democracy as was shown today in the LDS, when you're all sitting here. At "three, four, I pressed the bell" - right, Mr President - and they drove into the hall; I have never seen such a democracy before. I've never seen such scenes or demonstrations of mobilization, military mobilization, because there's usually someone missing there, and today none of you. So I'm sure [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u41	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please, please, please, please, please, I'm asking for peace in the hall, that's the first thing. I'm asking for peace in the hall. My friend Rupar, please, I can conduct the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u42	Please, if you can give me back a minute of my execution.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u43	I'll take that into account. Can I have a second, please? Comrade Rupar, I will extend your time, but I ask for peace in the hall. First condition, please! Comrade Jakich, you have no word. My friend Rupar, I'm asking you to communicate your views. No one has the right to interfere, and you, please, be careful that no one understands them as an insult.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u44	Yeah, you know when cats yell. So, you'll reach [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Yeah, and you're giving me peace, aren't you? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u45	I'm asking for peace in the hall. My friend, Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u46	So it is that you will, by law, eventually return some bits to those who have invested a great deal of their property in the construction of telecommunications. I'm just afraid that these fragments will be very small, that people will not feel them at all, unless, of course, some teeny-tiny Telekom is going to bury them a little sooner, but still. Well, I'd be ashamed, I'd be ashamed. Why didn't your pants and hands shake when you pressed the buttons when it came to insurance? When Billions Were Needed to Be Provided to Some Individuals [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u47	My friend Rupar!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u48	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u49	I have a duty to warn you. There's no controversy. Explanation of voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u50	Yes, I will, Mr. President. But then, look, they didn't shake their pants. No one said anything, no one was sorry, the individuals in the insurance companies! Today we know, and people will know that you have acted very improperly. But today, for those individual farmers out there, I don't know where: Haloses, Gorenjska, wherever they are, are shaking their pants so badly, and kibbles, you've come to the National Assembly in full numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u51	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u52	You have a receipt. Of course, I sincerely hope that this bill won't come out on a short notice. Nor is it because one day those with their money will knock on that door and build broadcasters, or television networks, with their work. I am very much in favour of the next initiative, this is a referendum and, of course, I want this referendum to succeed, but to sober someone up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u53	Please, if you'll sit down, Comrade Rupar. I'm asking for peace in the hall. My friend Jakich! My friend Rupar! Can we calm down? My friend Rupar! Please, please, please, please, please, I don't think it's necessary in this National Assembly to have an event that someone could take as an intervention in the integrity of any of us. All views can be communicated, we are obliged to listen to them, and they can be communicated in such a way that they do not, as we say, intervene in integrity. This is the basis of a political culture to which we are committed. I think we've exhausted the list of those who wanted to explain their voice. We're moving to the vote. I would like to remind you once again that the majority of the members of the national assembly should vote in the re-decision on the adoption of that law, i.e. 46 or more. Let's vote! We're in the middle of a vote. 73 present. 49 for, 24 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. My friend Rupar! I'm asking for peace in the hall! My friend Rupar! You were very lucky that I noticed that you didn't go there with the newspaper. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I think it's our shared responsibility and responsibility to take care of the reputation of this house. We move on to the 2nd A-point of the agenda - Defence Proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the withdrawal of the proposal for a law on investment funds and management companies. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, acting as the proposer of that draft law by letter of 17.6., informed the assembly that it had withdrawn from the legislative procedure the proposal for an investment fund law and management companies. I'm asking the government, does he want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Secretariat? You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u54	All I want to do is point out the reasons. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u55	Ma'am, can you please stand up as usual in the National Assembly? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u56	I'm sorry. I would like to draw attention to the reasons for the withdrawal of this law. This is about the fact that this law dealt with the National Assembly at first reading last June. At that time, new European directives have been adopted which substantially change certain areas of investment by investment funds and other provisions concerning the operation of the investment funds themselves. This is what we have now tried to follow in the drafting of a new proposal for an investment fund law, which we will submit for further consideration by the National Assembly. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u57	May I ask if you would like to introduce yourself to the National Assembly? I'm sorry I don't know you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u58	Stosicky Natalia, government advisor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Do qualified debaters want the word? Please, Comrade Podobnik, perhaps as a representative of the parliamentary group? Okay. Which one of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Then colleague Podobnik has the word as a Member; the debate is limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Today's agenda item, which means the withdrawal of the draft law, ZiSD, in second reading, is linked to our debate last Friday. In fact, if you remember, it was then said that a promise had been made, or a covenant had been made, by the Minister of Mags. Robbery to get the government here as soon as possible with a system law. There's only Mrs. Stosicky, the government's advisor. However, colleagues and colleagues, that there will be no misunderstanding, the Government's argument that two additional new investment fund directives have come into force during the first and second reading, complementing and substantially amending these Directives and touching investment funds, informing the public about the operation of investment funds, including the content [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and so on, this is not an argument that the government is proposing withdrawal or that the law withdraw from the procedure. [[...]] The current Rules of Procedure would allow the Government to come with amendments. I would therefore like to ask the representative of the government here if he has this mandate to answer me on what procedure the government will propose to amend the law. The current law, which is systemic, is comprehensive, on a regular basis, and the government says it will only go forward with those provisions relating to the operation of investment funds and management companies linked to the EU directives. I would like to inform my colleagues here, particularly my colleague Dr. Bayuk, who is not currently among us, that this means that the new proposed government law in this area will not cover the issue of the transformation of pids. I hope this information is correct. That is to say, can the pids be transformed into regular stock companies or not, and all the dilemmas that we discussed on the previous Thursday will not be the content of the law that the government will propose, obviously, by summer or parliamentary holidays, and will most likely be shortened or not know by what procedure - quickly? This is not evident from the government's material, at least from this information we have today, at least I haven't been able to trace it. However, if the government were to be overpowered by the so-called EU legislation, the EU's obligations, and if the content of the European directives were to be incorporated into this law, conceptual topics related to the topic of the transformation of the pids would also be subject to abuse of the procedure and abuse of the EU label. The transformation of pids is not an EU issue. But I would like to see a representative of the government in this place, if you'll answer my question. What will be the procedure by which the government will propose the law? And does my belief that the proposed law will only follow the content of the two new additional investment fund directives, but will it not touch on some of the substantive issues of pid transformation and even the functioning of pids in the Slovenian capital market? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u61	Anyone else want a word? I ask Members and Members if they want a word. [[No, no, ……]] Counsellor of the Government, you want the floor. He wants a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you. This is an explanation: the government will propose a new law on investment funds and fast-track management companies. As I have already said, it is a matter of aligning with two new European directives, which are not only two new European Directives, which would slightly correct the current regulation that the European acquis has known, but it is a major change in the individual rules in the area that we have also explained in the material. This means that the whole area, the whole chapter of one law, is investment by investment funds, which are completely different. And here, too, we have followed these new guidelines in the essence of creating new forms or allowing new forms of investment funds. In fact, then these new directives redefine further information for investors in investment funds. They also regulate in more detail the management of the assets of well-educated investors. In addition, they are regulated by the Institute of Trustees and in this respect also partly by the supervision of the operation of investment funds by the Institute. These are therefore essential conceptual issues or arrangements brought about by these new Directives. Given that the European Association Agreement binds us and that we follow it, we are thus removing certain restrictions that the current law has in its provisions regarding the establishment of Member States' management companies on the Slovenian territory and the restrictions on investment in foreign securities, and therefore this Association Agreement obliges us to do so by February 2002 - this means that the deadlines have already expired - to remove these restrictions. The removal of these restrictions means only applicable legislation. This means that it is necessary, and this is an assessment that the urgent needs of the State to adopt this law, the proposed Investment Funds Act, are, in accordance with a rapid procedure. The second reason, of course, is the state programme adopted by our country, with regard to the adoption of the European acquis, where we are also essentially running out of time. 14.6. In essence, a report should be submitted to the European Commission, where we will report on whether we have taken up the rule of law in this area as well. Once again, only legislation adopted is in force. But if we want to go to the second round of accession negotiations. Thus, we have assessed that these extraordinary needs of the state, which requires the adoption of a proposal for a law that we will give you to deal with quickly. As regards the transformation of authorised investment companies, which was a question, it is true that this new bill, as we have already pointed out - here we go with the European work of the law forward - is not regulated or in this context the current investment fund law is still applicable: because this is, as you have already mentioned, Mr Podobnik, that a system law or system should be drawn up. We must say that, here in these areas, coordination with concepts is necessary and therefore we cannot, in the light of the hands we have, rush with it and not show any hurry with it. The Government's proposal was the withdrawal of this proposal for the very reason that this law, which is in particular a European law, could then be dealt with. But as for the procedure itself, why should we go with the amendment, that's exactly what I've already mentioned. We estimate that there were so many amendments that it would not make sense for the amendments to go. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u63	Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you for your response to the government. I can accept your arguments, even though the government would have some other procedural options, but this is not a key issue. The key problem or fact is that we will most likely get a law in the coming month that will change this area and so-called EU law. However, we are still awaiting systemic changes in the current ZiSD, and this is likely to happen once in September or October. So, in the next few months, we're going to deal with this problem twice. I hope it's clear that this is how it's gonna be. This also means, of course, that the pids will now continue to be transformed according to the old legislation, according to the existing ziSD and under the applicable law on the first pension fund. Thus, this debate, which was last Thursday in the National Assembly, which somehow required the government to come as soon as possible with a system law, will not be the case. First, the government will come with only those changes, which, as the government's true advisor, are very complex, which are linked to two new directives and are particularly linked to some areas that the amendment of the law did not contain in the second reading. I hope that in a few days or weeks we will not have a proposal for a ZiSD law following a rapid procedure on the agenda, that there will be no first comment, but where are the changes that would address the issues of pid transformation. There won't be any in the next round, but only in the fall or against the new year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u65	Dr. Bayuk's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With this explanation, which we have now heard from government representatives, all our hunches are confirmed that our government is not really enough to have systemic arrangements. Ten years have passed and we will be waiting; quickly, we are in a hurry to reconcile something with the European Union - what about the interests of one million Slovenes and Slovenians, and there is no hearing about it! And the empty promises made by the Minister in this National Assembly last week are obviously empty and will remain empty. Because when we voted and when you voted last week's proposal to stop the possibility of further transformation of the shareholders' society, pids, you proved what the real purpose was. The aim was to continue to create this possibility, the continuation of fraud, without any control, because it is a transition, as the great coalition understands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u67	Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. Then I'll close the debate. Before we move on to a decision, I must say the following, and here you are, Madam Counselor, please do not take this personally - I respect your person and your position as you take it - that I must remind the Government that it is obliged to inform the Presidency of the National Assembly, who represents it and who represents it, that it must have the power to do so. I think it is the responsibility of the National Assembly to insist on this business provision. [[...]] [[The voice from the bench.]] No, you don't have a word, I just gave an explanation on the rules of procedure. [[...]] Please proceed to the vote. I'm guessing we're not enough in the National Assembly right now. I'll wait. Okay, we're moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. [[...]] We're voting. 47 in attendance, 36 in and 9 in. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on equalization with genetically modified organizations. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the representative want a word? Would you please, Minister? Mag. Digger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on the treatment of genetically modified organisms was one of the first bills you or we have jointly considered in this new mandate, i.e. more than a year ago, in the first reading. In the meantime, Europe has adopted Directive 2001/18 on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment, and we have been obliged to transpose this Directive into our legal order and to incorporate it, after considerable professional work, into the law, even in part in the form of amendments, so the amendments are something. In the meantime, we have translated and are now in the process of ratifying the Cartagena Protocol on Biological Safety of the Convention on Biological Diversity and, of course, this is incorporated into the text of the law or amendments. We also had a series of discussions with NGOs, in particular with Umanotera, who actively participated in the debate on the law, and also through cooperation with them, we made some changes in the law, and I can say that we have reached agreement with this non-governmental sphere. Thus, no other amendments have been tabled to the bill, but the government and committees, which, of course, are supported by the Government. I therefore hope that the debate will not be controversial as well. Just for a brief moment, what the new law brings to the second reading according to the first reading. It preserves the structure and the basic content of the first reading. It's the same as it was. So it specifically regulates how you deal with genetically modified organisms in a closed system, in laboratories. It regulates the application procedure for risk assessment, authorisation procedures, regulates the confidentiality provisions, public participation, how it reacts in the event of an accident and so on. It then has a chapter on intentional release of genetically modified organisms into the environment, i.e. meeting, for example, genetically modified organisms. It regulates the procedures for applying such a purpose, how a risk assessment is made, how the public is involved in such decision-making and so on. It also regulates the procedures for placing products on the market. Again, it's a procedural part of the law. The most important changes in the second reading in relation to the first are the new provisions governing legal certainty and liability in the event of damage or in relation to the removal or reduction of the consequences of harmful effects of the treatment of genetically modified organisms. Here's the principle that the causer pays. Subsidiary liability of the State and criminal and compensation liability is foreseen in accordance with the law. There are now new provisions on imports and exports of genetically modified organisms and products which comply with the above-mentioned Cartagena Protocol. In the second reading, the law now places greater emphasis on the public and the availability of data and the involvement of the public in the procedures of action, new provisions on action in the event of the unexpected spread of genetically modified organisms into the environment, more precisely the provisions on risk assessment to be prepared by the notifier, the new provision on labelling also of those genetically modified organisms which are intended for work in closed systems and for deliberate release into the environment and so on. In short, what is new in the amendments, according to the law of first reading. This excludes medicines intended for use in human and veterinary medicine and those foodstuffs for human consumption when it comes to placing on the market and imports and exports, in short, for those foods which are regulated by other regulations. Further procedures concerning the confidentiality of data, with additional information, with new information, are then more precisely defined, and it is now envisaged that the Ministry of the Environment should agree with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. We deleted provisions allowing for the authorisation of deliberate release into the environment following a reduced procedure. This was based on comments from NGOs. Of course, we also took into account the comments made by the secretariat on legislation and the views adopted at first reading. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the provisions of the proposed law governing the placing on the market and the import and export of products do not apply to medicinal products and to those foodstuffs intended for the food of the people for whom the special marketing rules apply, on the one hand, to medicinal products, on the other hand, to so-called new foods. Only in the absence of these specific food rules is this law applicable during the transitional period, as far as its procedures are concerned, including for foodstuffs. So much for the intro. Let me reiterate that this subject in Slovenia is not regulated at all by the rules at this time, and this law of course regulates it in a way that is in accordance with the directives of the European Union - I must say that it is also quite complex, but it is a procedural law that tries to bring order to the handling of genetically modified organisms, which, of course, are not a matter to be traded freely and used just as a matter of course, because it is an excessive material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Minister Mag. The digger. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, and colleague Janc will inform us of the views of this parental working body. You have the floor, Comrade Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At its 29th meeting, on 6.6.2002, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Infrastructure and Environment addressed a proposal for a law on the management of genetically modified organisms, which was sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for second reading by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A representative of the NGO coalition for Slovenia without genetically modified organisms also participated in the meeting of the committee. In its opening statement, the representative of the proposed law explained that the second reading text took into account all the views of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted in the first reading of the draft law and the newly adopted guidelines on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment. The Cartagena Protocol on Biological Safety, the Convention on Biological Diversity, which regulates the safe passage of genetically modified organisms across borders, is also taken into account. The rapporteur also examined the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters and took into account the comments and proposals of the secretariat in the preparation of the additional amendments. The proposal also examined the proposals of the amendments of NGOs and took many proposals into account in its amendments. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has identified and supported all amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the exception of the amendments to Articles 46, 47, 48 and 60, where the content has been taken up separately in its amendments, to each article separately, with the content already covered for Article 47 in the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which amends the entire contents of Article 47. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, on the basis of discussions and warnings by the Secretariat on legislation and legal matters, has drawn up and adopted the following amendments: on 3, 25, 35, 46, 48, for a new Article 58.b and 59. At the conclusion of the discussion on the individual articles of the proposed law and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Infrastructure and Environment Committee shall propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, when considering and voting on individual articles of the proposed law on the handling of genetically modified organisms, the second shall adopt amendments to the Committee and amendments to the proposed law which the Committee supports." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much, colleague Janc. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[No, no, ……]] Emissary groups? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. I can see that there are not enough of us in the decision room. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. We're in the middle of another reading. This means that, given that parliamentary groups have not presented their views, we are now moving on to the examination and decision-making of individual articles. Please take a look at the amendments. This review was prepared on 7 June of this year and it has 22 pages, so we have extensive work ahead of us. Colleagues and colleagues, please come to the hall. Peace in the hall! I will first propose to the assembly a procedural proposal, namely that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and articles, the assembly shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. This proposal will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. First, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I am putting to the vote this procedural proposal. We're in the middle of a vote! We have a procedural proposal ahead of us. I think there are enough of us in the Chamber, but I will wait another minute and then put to the vote in another procedural proposal. Can I ask my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to come to the hall? We are in the middle of deciding on the proposal for a law on the treatment of genetically modified organisms. I am putting the procedural proposal to the vote again. Let's vote! I would like to ask colleagues and colleagues to vote on the procedural proposal. I find that, although there are enough of us in the hall, not all colleagues and colleagues have reported their presence. We'll set a break for 10 minutes. Since this is the first break in this session, which will be very long, I would like to remind you that this is a meeting which is fully devoted to European law, that all statements by the groups of Members commit to the seriousness of the work and I ask you to take this situation into account. We'll continue at 3:57 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u72	Colleagues and colleagues, it's a minute past 15.57. I have proposed to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. I have warned that such a decision will not be adopted unless it is voted on by at least a third of the Members present. We vote in third on the proposed procedural proposal. 57 present, 52 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. So now we can go to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. I've already asked you to take a look at it since the 7th of this month. First, I will put to the debate and then to the decision-making of the amendment to Article 2. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm putting the amendment to the vote. [[Proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia]] . We're voting. 57 in attendance, 52 in, no in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] Since this was an amendment that amended the whole article, no longer has to be voted on. With Article 3, we have two amendments, the amendment of the committee to the government's amendment and, of course, the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk about them? [[Nobody.]] First, I'm putting to the vote an amendment to the government's amendment. We're voting. 58 present, 51 for, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has been adopted. And now the government's amendment under order number two. We're voting. 57 in attendance, 52 in, no in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the whole article. We're voting. We are voting on the whole article. May I have your attention in the hall, please? 55 present, 48 for, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We decide first on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for an amendment to Article 4. We're voting. 51 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Let us now vote on the whole article. Let's vote! Let's vote on the whole article! 56 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We have an amendment to Article 6 of the Government. Anyone want a word about the article and the amendment? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put the government's amendments to the vote. Let's vote! Let's vote on the government's amendment! 57 present. 51 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment. Let's vote on the whole article! Let's vote! May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention in the hall, please? Again, in the second place, I shall put the whole article to the vote. Let's vote on the whole article. Peace in the hall! 62 present. 55 for, no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the article has been voted out. We are on the fourth page of the review, under Article 9 and an amendment to it by the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Let's vote on the government's amendment! Let's vote! 63 present. 54 for, no one's against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. Let us also vote on the whole article. Let's vote on the whole article. Let's vote! Let's vote on the whole article in the second! Let's vote on the whole article! 64 present. 55 for, no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have an amendment from the government to Article 16. No one wants to discuss it. First I'm going to make this amendment and then I'm going to make this whole article. First, on the amendment of the government. Let's vote on the government's amendment to Article 16! 57 present, 50 for, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. 50 in attendance, 47 in, no in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at Article 17, to which the amendment is being tabled. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am putting an amendment to the vote first. We're voting. 55 present, 48 for, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The article is thus amended. We have an amendment to Article 18 of the Government. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. 57 present, 50 for, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the whole article. We are voting on the whole article. 51 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. On the 6th page of the review, we have an amendment by the government to Article 19. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am putting an amendment to the vote first. We vote on the amendment of the government. 56 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended and therefore there is no need to vote on it. We also have a proposal from the government to amend Article 23. Since no one wants to discuss it, I put it to the vote. We're voting. The proposal to amend the Article has been adopted. Since 49, 45 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] We have a proposal from the government to amend paragraph 24. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am proposing a vote. We vote on the Government's proposal to amend Article 24. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 49 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] We are at Article 25, where we have the amendment of the committee to the amendment of the government and, of course, the amendment of the government. No one wants to discuss them. First, I will put to the vote the amendment of the Committee to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is under order number 1 at Article 25. We're voting. Please, we're in the middle of a vote. I'm asking for peace. Let's vote! 56 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the government's amendment. This one's on page 8 of the review. Let's vote! The proposal received support. 48 for 53, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] We've changed the wording of the article. Article 26 of the amendment is proposed by the Government. Since no one wants to discuss it, I put it to the vote. Let's vote! 54 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Let's vote on the whole article. Let's vote on Article 26 as a whole! The Article has been adopted. From 56 is 50 for, no one goes for it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. On the 27th page of Article 27 of the Government's amendment. Since no one wants to discuss it, I put it to the vote. Let's vote! Let's vote again! Let us vote on the Government's amendment to Article 27. 57 present. 49 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us now vote on the whole article! 52 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. The amendment is also proposed by the Government as far as Article 28 is concerned. Since no one wants to discuss it, I put it to the vote. Let's vote! 53 present. 47 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's vote on the whole article. We are in the midst of a vote on Article 28 as a whole. In the second on the 28th article in its entirety! Colleagues and colleagues! In the second on Article 28 as a whole. 59 present. 52 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have a proposal for a new Article 29a, proposed by the government. No one wants to discuss this proposal, so I am putting it to the vote. We are voting on the proposal for a new Article 29. He's got support. 47 for 55, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] We're on page 10 of the review. We have an amendment from the government to the 31st. No one wants to discuss it. We are voting on this proposal, on this amendment by the government. 51 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on the 31st article as a whole. 51 present, 45 for, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have a proposal from the Government to delete paragraph 32. No one wants to discuss it. I'm putting the motion to a vote. 53 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing we've deleted Article 32. We have a proposal from the Government to replace the text of Article 33. No one wants to discuss it. I'm putting the motion to a vote. 53 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have a proposal from the Government to amend the text of Article 34. No one wants to discuss it. I'm putting the motion to a vote. The proposal was adopted. 43 for 50, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] By Article 35, we have two amendments, the amendment of the committee to the government's amendment and, of course, the amendment of the government. Since no one wants to discuss them, I first put to the decision, to the vote of the amendment of the Committee to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 35 [[you have it on page 12 of the review.]] . We're voting. 51 present, 45 for, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We can still vote on the government's amendment. Colleagues and colleagues, in the second place, we will vote on the amendment of the government, which, if we accept it, will change Article 35. We'll vote next time. Let's vote! 49 present. 43 for, no one's against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that we have accepted this proposal. The Government is proposing an amendment to Article 36. I'm putting him to the vote. Let's vote! 54 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. Let us also vote on the full text of the article. Let's vote! One more time. In the second, I will put to the vote the full text of Article 36. Let's vote! Please, let's vote on the whole article! 55 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the article has been voted out. We're on page 13 at Article 38. We have a proposal from the government for an amendment. I'm putting him to the vote. Let us vote on the Government's amendment to Article 38. Let's vote! 53 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's vote on the whole article. Let's vote on the whole article! 48 present. 42 for, no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have a review of the government's amendment on the 13th page of Article 40. I'm putting him to the vote. Let's vote on the government's amendment. 56 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I now put the whole article to the vote. Let's vote on the whole article! 50 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of the Article has been adopted. We have an amendment from the government to Article 41. I'm putting him to the vote. There is an amendment by the Government to Article 41. Let's vote! 48 present. 43 for, no one's against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Let's vote on the whole article! We've got some problems. I'm sorry about that. Let's vote on the whole article! 49 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] We've accepted that. We have a proposal for Article 42 to be replaced by a new text. The proposer is the government. There is no debate, we are voting on a proposal for a new text. 49 in attendance, 43 in, no in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted that. We also have a proposal to amend paragraph 43. The proposer is the government. No one wants to discuss it. I will put this proposal to the vote. Peace in the hall. Once again, in the second place, I will put to the vote a proposal to amend the article in its entirety; in the second, we shall vote on the proposal to amend the article in its entirety. Peace in the hall! 57 present, 50 for, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] We have a proposal to amend Article 44 in its entirety. No one wants to discuss it. I put this proposal to the vote. We have a proposal to amend Article 44 in its entirety. The proposal was adopted. For 49, no one's against 56. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] We have an amendment to Article 45 of the Government. I'm putting him to the vote. The amendment was adopted, 48 out of 56 for, no one against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I am now putting the whole article to the vote. There shall be a full vote. 50 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The Article has been adopted. We have a proposal for a new 45 a/ article. No one wants to discuss it. I'm putting him to the vote. We're on page 17 of the review. 53 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that we have adopted the text. We have an amendment to Article 46 of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. There's no debate. We're voting on him. Let's vote on the infrastructure committee's amendment. Let's vote! The amendment was accepted. 47 for 53, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I now put to the vote Article 46 as a whole. Let's vote! 50 present. 42 for, no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. The Government withdraws the amendment, the amendment to Articles 46, 47, 48 and 60 on the 18th page of our review. This way, we can come up with a proposal to amend Article 47 in its entirety. No one wants to discuss it. I put this proposal to the vote. Let's vote! 54 present. 46 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I understand he's been accepted. Proposal for a full Article. By Article 48, we have an amendment tabled by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. No one wants to discuss it. I put this proposal to the vote. Let us vote on the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee! He's been admitted. 46 for 53, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. I am now putting to the vote Article 48 as a whole. Let's vote! 50 present. 42 for, no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 48 has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 49 of the Government. No one wants to discuss it. I'm putting him to the vote. Article 49, Government amendment. The amendment was accepted. Out of 46 it was 41 for, no one against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. Let's vote on Article 49 as a whole! 52 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We have an amendment from the government to Article 54. Since no one wants to discuss it, I put it to the vote. Let's vote on the government's amendment to Article 54! Let us vote once again on the Government's amendment to Article 54. May I have your attention and attention, please? We're on page 19 of the review. We have four pages left until the end of the vote. 49 present. 41 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] Now we can vote on the whole article. 52 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The Article has been adopted. We have a proposal for an amendment by the government to Article 55 on pages 19 and 20 of the review. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am putting this proposal to the vote. We're voting. 56 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] We still vote on Article 55 as a whole. 53 present. 47 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We have an amendment from the government to Article 56. I'm putting him to the vote. 56 present. 51 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. I'm putting the 56th article to a vote. We are voting on the whole article. 49 present. 43 for, 1 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. On the 20th and 21st pages of article 57, we have an overview of the government's amendment. No one wants to discuss it, I put it to the vote. We vote on the amendment of the government. 52 present. 44 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment. We are still voting on the whole article. Peace in the hall. We are voting on the whole article. 55 present. 46 for, 4 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] The Article shall be adopted in its entirety. We have a government proposal for a new 58.a. There's no debate. We're voting on him. 53 present. 49 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] So we have a new 58.a. We also have a proposal from the government for a new 58.b., which is being tabled by the amendment committee. Nobody wants a word. Then I will put forward the proposal of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee first. The amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee is now in the vote. Again, in the second, colleagues and colleagues, I am putting to the vote the amendment of the Infrastructure Committee to the Government's amendment. We're voting. We're in the middle of a second vote. 54 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the government's proposal to add a new 58.b. We're voting. [[We're on the back of the view.]] . 50 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that we have accepted this proposal. Finally, we have a final review of the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee to Article 59. No one wants to discuss it. I'm putting the motion to a vote. We vote on the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee to Article 59. 48 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] We still vote on Article 59 as a whole. We're voting. 49 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. 49 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. That way we can go to the debate and decide on the title of the law. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We vote on the title of the law. 51 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I am also putting forward the following proposal for a decision in the debate: "The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the motion to a vote. We're voting. The proposal was adopted. 48 out of 51 voted in favour, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the representatives of the Government for their participation in the meeting. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE PROVIDED IN TRANSPORT LAW. The bill was proposed by the government to the assembly. I ask the representative to inform the National Assembly of the reasons. You have the floor. Mr. Undersecretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u73	Mr. President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The text of the second reading law is prepared on the basis of a first reading discussion, taking into account most of the comments and opinions that have emerged in the debate. The most extensive part of the amendments and the completion of the proposal are related to the harmonisation of the draft law with the fourth Directive on Automotive Insurance, on which there were still some uncertainties at the stage of the preparation of the draft law for first reading. The terminological and editorial comments concerning the designation of individual institutes under this Directive have thus been taken into account. Thus, instead of the term "indemnity body", the term "indemnity office" is proposed, and the term "indemnity authority" is replaced by "indemnity claims authority". The law now regulates in very detail the situation and tasks of the Compensation Office and the cases, procedures and time frames in which the injured person can address his/her request to the Office. The provisions on the information centre are also supplemented. It was therefore necessary to provide for the obligation of insurance undertakings to inform the information centre of the termination of the insurance contract and to regulate in more detail the transmission of data by beneficiaries. With regard to the position of the secretariat on the time frame for the establishment of the information centre, the applicant considers that, due to the size of the information centre, it is appropriate to establish it before the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, until 31.12. this year, regardless of the fact that it will actually start working only with the membership itself. However, according to the applicant, it is not necessary to regulate the statutes of the Compensation Office by law, since it will operate within the framework of the Insurance Association. Last of all, as regards the implementation of the 4th Directive, let us mention that the law now includes accidents in third countries that are not EU members if these countries are included in a multilateral guarantee agreement. This means that, for example, an injured person from Slovenia who is involved in an accident in a third country will be able to benefit from all the advantages offered by the new law on the basis of the implementation of the 4th European Directive. Thus, the complementary provisions of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport now fully follow the requirements of the 4th Directive, the main objective of which is to approximate the resolution of harmful cases that occur outside the State of Injury. In line with the first-reading positions, the measures that the Insurance Supervisory Agency can take in accordance with the Insurance Act in the event that insurance undertakings start to apply insurance conditions which would be contrary to the law are now more appropriate. Thus, it is proposed that the prohibition of the conclusion of new insurance under the proposed law only apply to compulsory insurance provided for in Article 1 of this Law, but not to any other insurance type, the Applicant has also improved the provision of a law governing cases where the injured person does not have the right to compensation, since the previous formulation of cases where the injury to the injured person is caused by the operation of nuclear energy or military operations and insurrections is too loose and could, as such, lead to extensive interpretations. A new case of exclusion of coverage of the insurance undertaking is also added, this is the case where the injury to the injured person was caused by a terrorist act. Such an example can also be considered as exceptional cases for which the insurance undertaking cannot guarantee. The draft law also takes into account the other comments made by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters referred to in the first reading, some of which we would like to highlight only some of the most important. The provision concerning the granting of a mandate to the Minister of Finance for the issue of a sub-law setting out the content of the insurance contract shall be waived. A comment is also taken into account regarding the Article of the draft law governing the entry into force of criminal provisions imposing fines on the insurance undertaking and on the responsible person who does not conclude the insurance contract in accordance with the law and the insurance conditions. This provision now does not have a transitional period and will apply immediately. In response to the Secretariat’s comment, the provision on sanctions for the termination of mandatory insurance obligations extends also to all types of means of transport, and there are also rather extensive and difficult editorial and nomotechnical corrections to the law. After re-examination and inter-resortmental coordination of the law, there was also a need to supplement the articles governing compulsory insurance of boat owners against damage caused by the use of the boat to third parties. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing an amendment to Article 36 of the bill. It is proposed to specify more precisely the power of the boat for which such insurance is compulsory. Experience in practice shows that this obligation exists only for owners or holders of the right to have boats whose power exceeds 3,7 kW. Similarly, as set out in the provisions on car liability insurance, the extent of the risk covered by this type of insurance must also be defined here. However, the applicant considered that, given the volume and frequency of traffic in inland waters, there was no need to extend the obligation of liability insurance to inland waters. In addition, the Government is proposing an amendment to Article 35 of the bill which regulates the minimum sums fixed for aircraft or other aircraft. An immediate application is proposed, instead of the previously envisaged harmonisation at the time of entry into the European Union, of increased insurance sums, which would constitute an immediate alignment with the regime resulting from the resolution of the international organisation of air carriers. Dear Members and Members! I have therefore presented the basic novelties of the proposal for a second reading. In view of the commitment made by Slovenia in negotiations with the European Union to adopt the law by the end of June this year and at the same time in view of the relatively small number of substantive amendments, the majority of the amendments tabled so far are mainly editorial in nature, the applicant proposes that the third section of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should be dealt with on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! That law dealt with the working body of the mother at its 25th regular meeting. Since many questions were already raised at the first reading as to whether it would not have been better for the Government to prepare a new law, a number of comments were made on the text in the second reading by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs in more than 30 articles, and the Committee had to stop the consideration of this point twice at its meeting. Following this "time out" a number of amendments to the Committee were drawn up, namely Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 20, 21, 23, 31 and 32, the amendment to the Government's amendments to Articles 36, 43, 44, 46 and 49. I suggest you support all these amendments to the committee. However, the Committee did not support the amendment of the Government to Article 49 and supported the two amendments of the Government to Articles 35 and 36. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport is aligned with the 4th Directive on Automotive Insurance and is in the interest of the insurers. At the first reading of the law in the Coalition of Slovenia, this is the Social Democratic Party and the New Slovenia, we requested that this law be prepared in a new way. Similarly, the position of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs is similar. However, the government and the Ministry of Finance insist that this is not necessary. This is a case where, in principle, the content is correct and correct and, on the other hand, the form is wrong and, of course, it is a step forward and a step towards even greater transparency of Slovenian legislation. For the second reading, the law is, of course, improved in principle, according to the 4th Guideline, but loses even more on transparency. The legislative secretariat also states that the law is highly opaque and overloaded and that at this stage the need for a new text appears. Since this law concerns many citizens, all drivers or owners of motor vehicles, they should support the position of the secretariat and again request a new text. For the second reading, the Secretariat also has a comment on almost all the articles and the comments or amendments are proposed by the Insurance Association. I think that we should be particularly careful and take these views into account, and we should demand that a transparent law be drawn up in such a form that it is accessible to citizens in a satisfactory way, in such a way that they understand what is at stake. In short, it would also be clear to draw attention to some substantive issues. We believe that it is necessary to regulate the status issue of the new institution of the Compensation Office, which will intervene in the enforcement of damages caused to injured persons with permanent residence in Slovenia when they are caused in the territory of the European Community, it would be necessary for the new arrangements for the control of the insurance conditions by the Insurance Supervisory Agency to be implemented as soon as possible and not until they enter the European Community. In the Social Democratic Party, we stand on the point that this law is substantially amended, that it is formally imprecise and that is why we would insist once again on drafting a new text. Last but not least, practice also shows in this case, the practice so far to push and, of course, to create a regulatory regime in Slovenia in a very opaque way, which is probably only available to some lawyers, but not to citizens, who, of course, should draw something from such laws and should be intended for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u79	Madam President! Government representatives! Much has just been said about this law, so I would just say that I agree that the law should be reexamined and it would be better to have a new law, because what we have before us is just a patchwork. It has already been said how many amendments there are and how many technical things the secretariat has warned about. It seems to me that this law belongs to that category of laws that come from the finance ministry, not well processed and not well prepared, so we all have much more work to do. I hope this can change once. The Government is justifying changes to the existing law so that all of this needs to be brought into line with the legal order. Of course, that's understandable. However, one would say that this was not only about harmonising the acquis with the European Union, but also about some harmonisation of private interests. The Ministry of Finance and the Association of Insurance took part in the drafting of these proposals. The association represented the interests of the insurance undertakings and the Ministry was supposed to represent the interests of the insurers. Of course, when it is questionable, such as the practice in our country or in the government, that there are no consumer representatives or citizens in the drafting of the law. I think this is a huge loss for consumers, because consumers should comment on any proposal that so significantly affects them. One of the reasons is that the government states that the insurance market will be opened by law and that the competitiveness of insurance companies will therefore be better, as it will also require other insurance companies that are not present. But here's the problem. We have five insurance companies with us, and I think one of them is foreign. There are likely to be a lot of discussions among these, on what the premiums and other conditions should be. It is also said that the situation for the consumer will be improved by a mandatory large increase in the minimum insurance amount for damage caused by death, physical injury and health. However, insurance premiums will also rise so that insurance companies are still better off, as the number of accidents with significant traffic damage is relatively low. Interestingly, neither the legislator nor insurance companies have yet explained how much increased minimum insurance sums would actually increase the premium paid by insurers. I think that before this law is passed, we should get this information and see if this law is not more protection for insurance companies than the interests of insurance companies. Another interesting thing about this law is who defines the components of an insurance contract that are not included in this law. The question of the correctness of their determination is raised only by means of a sub-legislative act. The Bond Relations Act provides that the parties themselves shall agree on the components of a contract which are not congenially laid down in the Sectoral Law. Therefore, it seems to me that the current regime is better, since the parties negotiate with each other, the parties and insurance companies negotiate and thus strengthen the competition of insurance companies, of course if we agree on a hypothesis that there is no non-competitive link between these insurance undertakings. If we look at the European Union, we see that the additional insurance conditions in the European Union are subject to the free insurance market and are not standardised. I think that here, if this is true, we are moving away from the practice that is in force in the European Union and I think that this element should also be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to the consideration and decision on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if it is opposed by at least a third of the Members present. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. Procedural proposal, Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I think it would be appropriate for the Secretary of State to respond to statistics that certainly exist, how the premiums will increase if we keep the standards that are in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mag. Sea, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. As far as the issue of insurance sums is concerned, I must say that the Ministry of Finance does not have the original data on which to calculate for itself. That is why we asked the Slovenian Insurance Association before the first hearing and later after the first reading to perform this calculation. As you know, at the first reading, the Slovenian Insurance Association argued that this would not have a greater impact on prices. Unfortunately, until the second reading, we have not obtained any concrete calculations. However, the insurance association presented to us, after the proposal for a second treatment, a basic calculation which I will briefly take. The insurance association says that this is not, I would say, a perfect estimate, just one first approximation in which it estimates that prices could increase by a maximum of 15% on the basis of higher insurance sums. It should be pointed out, however, that a number of insurance companies are already offering these higher insurance sums in their package and are therefore charging 10% more: therefore, they offer slightly higher than they are under the law, but slightly smaller than the law now requires following compliance with European directives. If you look at your insurance policy, you'll see if you already have higher insurance amounts, and in this case you're already paying 10% of the premium premium, but if you don't, it'll be about 15%. I would like to answer a few other questions, if possible, which have been exposed. In fact, as regards the insurance conditions and their approval. We have now abandoned in the law the provision in the first reading that the Ministry of Finance lays down, by means of a sub-law, elements of the insurance contract, in addition to what is already the law of bond relations. We have now incorporated some key elements in terms of consumer protection into the law itself. The insurance conditions - as Mr Bernik points out - are not previously approved in Europe. This is also in line with the European directives, and competition on the market itself is so great that it provides sufficient guarantees for insurers themselves as weaker customers who are in contact with the insurance companies offering them these products. In Slovenia, as you know, until the entry into the European Union, competition between insurance companies will continue to be the same as it is. Currently, six insurance companies offer this type of insurance. This is why we assess, as in the current law, that it is useful, if the conditions, i.e. the general conditions for this insurance provided by insurance undertakings, are previously approved by the Ministry of Finance. As the bill is now prepared, this would be maintained until the entry into the European Union itself, but with the entry into the European Union this prior approval would be eliminated and in fact the insurance conditions would also be the subject of the market, as you say, or the relationship between the customer and the insurance undertaking. By assessing that with the entry into the European Union itself, when the actual possibility of our insurers being insured abroad, including for this type of insurance, or that foreign insurance companies directly offer this form on our market, the consumer will, of course, have the opportunity to seek another insurance company in the event of insurance conditions that he does not agree with. Competition will be increased and consumer protection will be slightly greater in this respect. Maybe another word, two on the very basic question of who protects the interests of the insured. I believe that the whole law is actually written to protect the interests of the insured. In fact, the basic motivation for amending the law is to raise the standard of protection for insured persons. A key is the 4th Guideline, which primarily protects insured persons when victims of accidents are out of their country and brings them closer to solving the harmful case, so that in fact the insurance company has to solve the damage in the country where they live, for example in Slovenia. As well as a number of other provisions, everything is actually in the direction of greater protection. After all, even higher insurance sums, which will lead to a higher premium, however, we cannot agree that this higher premium is for the benefit of insurance companies, as this premium will eventually go to waste. An increase in the premium is necessary because more compensation will be paid. That's what I'd say about these basic substantive issues. Another question was raised on the status issues of the Compensation Office. As explained in the introduction, we do not believe that there is a need to resolve status issues by law. The Indemnity Office will operate within the framework of the Insurance Association and will not be its legal entity, so the Applicant considers that it is not necessary to burden the law with this. As far as I'm concerned, there's a very large number of amendments. It is true, but in fact, the representative of the secretariat can confirm that most of these amendments are editorial in nature and will in fact help to make the text really a little difficult in fact with these amendments much more transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you very much. We are now moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision that, in accordance with Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles, we are voting together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. All colleagues and colleagues in the vicinity, please join us. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. There are 39 of us present. The first vote on the proposal was not successful. Secondly, we are voting on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. Since the second vote was not successful, we continue after a 10-minute break. At 17:00 and 17 minutes, we will vote on the proposal for a decision for a third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u85	It's 5:17. This is the time we have set for the third vote on the proposal for a decision. There is not enough vote in the Chamber for the current vote, so please come to the Hall again. Thirdly, we will vote on the proposal for a decision to discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. Let's vote! Even in the third vote, we were not successful. At 5:30 a.m., we continue our work.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u86	We'll determine the presence then, but I think we're going to continue our work successfully now. May I have your attention, please? We're picking up the presence in the hall! We're picking up the presence! There are 55 of us present. This is how the National Assembly is concluded and we can decide. Once again, I propose to the Assembly that it decide below in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure. We decide on this proposal. Let's vote! Here's 56 seeds. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 18.6.2002. However, you also have a proposal on the table for amendments by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting Article 1 and the amendment to this Article, of which the Committee is the proposer. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the remark because this amendment is substantively linked to the amendments to delete 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, and so on, the articles to be decided on below. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. The vote was 47, against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment has been amended and Article 1 has been amended. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2. The proposer shall be the committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 4. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Wait a minute! Let's vote! There are 51 of us present, 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 5 and the amendment of the Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 7 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 8 and the amendment of the Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 9 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 13 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on the three amendments to Articles 14, 15 and 16, all related to the amendment to Article 1. First of all, at 2:00, does anybody want to discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. Can I have your attention, please? For the second time, we are voting on the amendment of the Committee to Article 14. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Who wants to discuss the amendment to Article 15? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted.We also decide on the amendment to Article 16. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 18 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 19 and on the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 20 and the amendment of the Government to this Article, by noting that it contains a substantive solution as provided for in the first paragraph of the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to Article 49, which takes account of the opinion of the Secretariat, places matter among the transitional provisions of the legislative proposal. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 21, which is just like the next 23, linked to the amendment already adopted. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We also decide on the amendment to Article 23. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. The 10 Members tabled an amendment to Article 24. You don't have this amendment on the bench because it was just filed. I'll read the text of the proposed amendment until the services reproduce the amendment and you get it on the bench. The amendment is tabled in Article 24, which reads: "In Article 24, the words 'or extension of registration' shall be added after the word'registration' and the words 'and issue a marketing authorisation or a technical inspection label' shall be deleted. I'd like to ask the proponents for an explanation. On behalf of the 10 Members, Mr Dusan Vukko is the first to be signed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think there is a need to explain this amendment. The main purpose of the legislator in this Article is to ensure that no one can register a vehicle or renew registrations if he does not pay or conclude the relevant insurance contracts. Therefore it is absolutely unnecessary and is of some kind foregone if the law states, as is the basic text: Registration may be carried out and issued with a commercial permit or a vehicle technical inspection sticker." Look, you know the controversy that I myself have opened at one of the previous meetings of the National Assembly and found that the label, as it is legislated with the Regulation, is controversial with several aspects. The Road Traffic Safety Act does not give this authority. If this law, which does not really have anything to do with the registration procedure, seems to me to be some kind of prejudice if the road safety law decides otherwise and says that there will be no more stickers in Slovenia, which I think would be very rational and meaningful, there will be no need to correct this law. Once again, this amendment is not affected in any way, if I may say so, by the basic purpose of this provision, namely, this, we are still talking about the fact that a person will have to conclude an insurance contract prior to registration. Whether it is the issue of a traffic permit or the issue of a sticker, it is a matter of another law, or a law, and it is absolutely unnecessary for us to drag these words and this ballast through this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I just want to explain a little more to the proposer, because we don't have a case on the table, we're probably going to make a decision on it. I fully support the thinking, if it is directed at this high level of bureaucratic, I would say that the assignment in this country is terminated, this is the label that we all thought would replace the traffic permit, and now we have a traffic permit and a sticker, and so on. Now, a Member of the ruling liberal democracy, who is essentially somehow responsible for the conduct of this ruling coalition, speaks and wants to end it through another law, but cannot, at the same time, be so powerful that, through the government or through the relevant ministries that are part of this coalition, they can achieve that nonsense in the form of a sticker or duality, a sticker and a traffic permit, is actually eliminated and that these citizens are only saved some of the costs and that this country is a little less bureaucratic. In spite of this anti-biocratic programme, this bureaucracy is essentially being stepped up. So I would just like to explain whether this is an amendment in this direction, that it is trying to challenge the existence of this label somehow, or if so, I will support it, of course, but I think the address is for this appeal and for this somewhere else, and that is in that rule that prescribes it or enforces it. In short, I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u91	My friend Visjak is known for sweeping both ways. All right, it'll be cleaner. The Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia has never hidden that we are satisfied with the stickers, so at this meeting a debate was also opened at the initiative of the Group of Members. However, we will deal with this problem when we consider this law in the National Assembly. If, at that time, due to the arguments we will make on the one hand and on the other, the National Assembly decides that the label is not what is best, of course the government will have to follow. We're talking about something else here. Once again, the registration procedure has nothing to do with the insurance law. The purpose here is only to ensure that the person must have a contract of insurance, since only then can he register his own car. Whether it will be in such a way as to obtain a marketing authorisation, or whether there will be a sticker, this will also be a matter of decision by this national assembly, is entirely irrelevant in this law. Therefore, when you receive the text of the proposal, which should be deleted from the existing Article 24, it is quite clear and basically reads as follows: "Registration or extension of registration shall be made after the submission of the evidence, the insurance of the car liability insurance contract. The insurance must also be made prior to the issue of test plates for the duration of its validity." We are no longer prejudiced as to whether this is a marketing authorisation or a sticker. This is the only way the amendment is going. But what we will say about the road safety law when we touch on the additions to the articles that talk about the label, which is now a pretty lame provision, and then we will negotiate. I think it's about time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I think we have everyone on the bench now in writing. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the amendment of the 10 Members to Article 24. We will decide on this amendment. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 24 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Committee's 31st and amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment of the Committee and Article 32. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 35. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 36 and under the amendment of the Committee to the amendment of the Government under Order No 2. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we decide first on the amendment of the committee under 1. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 43, and I ask for your attention. The Committee's amendment is under review, and you also have the amendment of the United Nations Group, which will be decided under order number 2. I am opening a debate on the article and both amendments. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Pucko first, then Mr. Groschel. Here you go, Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I am interested in the government's opinion on this amendment, because I assume that something like this has been going on for a long time, so I am really curious about the impact that this will have on insurance payers in the final stage, because insurance companies will probably not give up this percentage to their own detriment. I therefore wonder what the impact will be if, for example, all the other provisions speak of the fact that the premiums will not increase, there will be a proposal at the last minute that changes the conditions or objectives of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u95	Madam President! Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Notwithstanding the fact that the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Cyril, has proposed, after the introductory explanation, that only those amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Government should be supported, allow me, for a short period, to present the meaning of both Article 42p and Article 42rd. We will also consider the proposal for a national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia at the 17th meeting of the National Assembly. In doing so, it is only necessary to say that this programme, the national road safety programme, which provides for a national road safety organisation, will also be financed by the budget as proposed. Since the very tasks of this organisation require a completely different organisation, according to the discussions so far, this agency, including in the human resources context, will need additional resources to implement these preventive programmes, with the exception of budgetary resources that will ensure the functioning of the organisation. If these funds are not stable, the effectiveness of the new Transport Safety Organisation will, of course, be compromised. In all of these discussions, which have already been and will also, with regard to the provision of the necessary funding for the financing of preventive programmes, for the exploration of work, it has also been found, compared to similar solutions abroad, that most similar institutions are being fed from the part of the means of compulsory transport insurance which are also excluded for this purpose. Therefore, it was also clear from the explanation that the national programme, which provides for the coordination of the implementation of individual projects, requires the participation of government authorities, professional organisations and civil society bodies, the promotion of the programme, the choice of priorities in the implementation of the programme and cooperation with local communities. Therefore, this national road safety organisation will also be a new organisation, which will also reorganise the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be established under the Law on Public Agencies. However, ensuring adequate organisation and the necessary means to implement the programme is essential for the reception and implementation of the national road safety programme. By setting out the specific fund proposed in this amendment for road safety prevention and training, we would provide some of the necessary resources to enable the implementation of the most urgent preventive and educational activities in Slovenia. You may also find from your own explanation that, on the basis of data from the Slovenian Insurance Association on the collection of the gross premium for car liability insurance, here is the figure for 2000, amounting to slightly more than 34 billion, for the creation of a preventive fund, proposed at 1.35 per cent of the gross premium, would provide for the preventive and educational work of 445 million tolars, allowing for continuous activities. It is also explained that such a way of financing national road traffic prevention organisations already have certain countries, some countries, both Finland and Switzerland, where they have also demonstrated the direct impact of preventive and educational work on the reduction of accidents and consequently on the reduction of damage. The activities carried out in the municipalities through the road traffic education and prevention world, I also think it would be good to listen to these two amendments, because, last but not least, road traffic prevention is not only carried out on the first day of school, but these activities are carried out almost all year round. Thus, we have mostly involved different societies, whether it is a pensioner’s society or an association of drivers and auto mechanics, or a motor vehicle. All these activities, which have a good response and which are also accepted at the municipal level, I think that it is necessary to provide a permanent source of these funds and also to enrich some of them, including through municipal budgets, because, last but not least, I think that this is the right activity in the right place, because not least when the child first steps on the road or from preschool education to his final, as I would say, the perfect ability that he will demonstrate when he or she comes to the test of knowledge from the road traffic rules for driving a bike with a motor or later when he or she also takes the driving test. I think that the government could listen to these proposals, and please, dear colleagues, mayors and others, to support the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr More, then Mr Vizjak, applied for the debate in order of order. It's 6:00. If we agreed, we would finish two more pages of the amendment and end with the consideration of the bill, but that depends on your desire or decision to finish. I see you're not in the mood, so I'm breaking the 5th item of the agenda. Tomorrow, at 10 a.m., we continue to deal with the interruption of the 5th item of the agenda and then on the order of business. Thank you all very much and goodbye!
