ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Very nice greeting to everyone at the 21st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Before I begin, I would like to start by thanking all Members and Members, as well as the servants and servants of the National Assembly, for helping them with such patience and patience that a very demanding schedule of work in the National Assembly is running as smoothly as possible this week. Before starting the 21st meeting convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, I would like to inform you which of our colleagues and colleagues will not be present at the meeting due to other obligations. These are colleagues of Celigoj, Diaci, Janša, Kangler, Peterle, Pucko, Pukšič, Rupar and colleague mag. A visor. From 5 p.m. on, there will be no colleague of Stoparov, since 17.30 p.m., and from 18.00 onwards, a colleague of Jakić. I invited the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda and the representative of the Judicial Council to the 25th item of the agenda. I say hello to all of them, too. Now, first of all, the National Assembly will move to setting the agenda for the 21st session, and at this point, I would like your attention. I prepared the draft agenda in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure which you received on 6 December this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64, first of all on withdrawals. The College of the President of the National Assembly recently decided to remove the issues of Members and Members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia this time exceptionally from the agenda. Let me say that there was an agreement on this proposal, which almost no one objected to, a separate opinion was given by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Of course, the topic is decided by the National Assembly. The College justifies its decision not to raise questions and initiatives with the decision of the National Assembly to want to discuss everyone, including this issue, and in particular to discuss the budget law package with the government in full competence, so we will put these issues and initiatives to the next meeting. If any of the Members wishes to explain their words, I will give them an opportunity, or we will vote on the College's proposal. Can I put this proposal to the vote in order to withdraw point 1? I put this proposal to the vote. Please vote. I'm gonna have to put this to a vote again. I ask colleagues and colleagues to put voting cards in the voting apparatus. I will wait for a moment and then put this proposal to the vote again. Can our colleagues from the lobby come to the hall and assist the national assembly in this first decision? Once again, Comrade Drobnic, I will once again put to the vote a proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda. We're voting. Please cooperate in deciding not to waste valuable time needlessly. 48 present, 45 for and no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] We have withdrawn this point from the agenda in this respect. We're in the field of expansion. The College of the President of the National Assembly proposes an extension of the agenda by considering the point of amendment of the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, are subject to a prohibition of the conduct of business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. Do qualified speakers want a word? If not, then we will put this extension to the vote. We're voting. May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Once again, dear colleagues, I give, secondly, this decision to vote. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the decision to extend the agenda by this item of the agenda. 52 present, 45 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it we've accepted that, too. Now we could move on to a decision on the agenda as a whole. Someone wants a word about him, or I'll put him to the vote. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to a decision on the agenda, as we have changed it with previous decisions. Please vote. We're in the middle of a vote. 56 in attendance, 41 in and 7 in. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. I ask the National Assembly whether any of the participants object that, despite a different forecast of the item on the agenda, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products, despite the fact that the hour is not yet 16 and 15 minutes, we start early. The minister's here. Can I? Okay. Then we will, because it's about two. PERIOD OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT AMENDMENT LAW ON THE REDUCTION OF THE USE OF COVENANT PRODUCTS, AS THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE GOVERNMENT, THE REPRESENTATIVE, THIS POINT STARTED EXCEPT BEFORE THE PROVISION. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. I would like to ask the representative of the government, the resignation minister, Dr. Kebra for the opening statement. Five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u2	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! He's right in front of you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u3	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u4	a law amending already in 1996 the established law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products, in part relating to the permitted content of harmful substances in cigarettes, methods of sampling, labelling of tobacco products with warnings, consumer information and the like. [[...]] In this part of the amendments to the law, we follow the European Directive, which represents a higher level of consumer protection against the dangers of smoking. The second segment, which we are amending in this law, is the restriction or elimination of the abuse of existing provisions allowing the advertising of tobacco products in the form and form of a protected trade mark. Let me mention that even after that, it is possible to use a protected trade mark in a prescribed manner and under prescribed circumstances, but only those brands of individual producers that do not explicitly show cigarettes, tobacco products or smoking acts. We are also changing the provisions by which we increase the responsibility of owners of catering facilities to provide non-smokers in premises intended for non-smokers. As you know, these rooms are only in catering facilities and even if a smoker has ever appeared in this room for non-smokers, it has been considered by law that only that smoker can be punished, not the owner of the facility. The current law requires that the owner of the facility, with an appropriate proposal to this smoker, propose a change of space, a place for smokers. Finally, we are also increasing the role and responsibility of the Ministry of Health in the preparation of two-year programmes to limit the use of tobacco products and reduce harmful consequences. The law is changed in a number of articles. Allow me to mention in the end that we have also seen useful proposals in the National Assembly Health Committee. The Ministry of Health supports all those proposals endorsed and adopted by the Health Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was examined by the Health Committee. I invite the chairman of the committee, colleague Brenčič, to present the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I welcome everything, including the Minister. The Committee considered the draft law at its 26th regular session on 4. 12. In view of the fact that the text of the original proposal was later replaced by a new one and that the text in question was then discussed at this meeting, there was also no specific discussion, since the applicant took into account the grossness of all that was to be observed in the first text or in the first text of the proposal, both in the opinion of the legislative and legal service and in the numerous arguments of the interested institutions concerned. The discussion focused on the proposal, which was still advocated by both chambers, on crafts and economics and referred to Article 13. The debate brought the withdrawal of the amendment to Article 10 by the four groups of Members. The Committee adopted the amendment of Mr Tsukati's MEP to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 8, Article 17 of the four groups of Members. At the meeting itself, the proposer, Mr Cukjati, also withdrew the amendment to Article 19. The Committee also adopted amendments to Articles 3, 10 and 17 on the basis of a good proposal for a law. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. We will now listen to presentations on the positions of the groups. Mr Cukjat will introduce the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, followed by colleague Ana Marija Tisovic of the New Slovenia Group of Members. They both have five minutes. Please, first of all, my buddy Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Surely, all those who occasionally resort to tobacco remember how this began in their youth. Usually, the first cigarette made hell in her mouth, headaches, bad things, and the like. With the second cigarette, it was a little better, it suffered, and at three o’clock, it suffered, and in time, the man got used to it. And with that, he entered the adult world. For if there is any atmosphere, some belief that smoking is frivolous, important, then for a young man, it is a wonderful entry into that world of dreams equal to that of adults. And of course, there are many things we would like to do about these harmful behaviors. Maybe it would be more important to prevent ecstasy in disco clubs and things like that. However, if this law does, however, strengthen the public opinion that tobacco is bad, not a useful habit, that it is harmful to health and thus to national health, national quality, if we succeed, then of course the aim of the law has been successful. Surely all these, I would say, new things and the requirements of individual passwords, which will be printed on envelopes and similar things, may help to make it here and there just think about those words, and, as I said, if we move something in public opinion, then the aim of the law is achieved. That's why we support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u9	My colleague Ana Marija Tisovic, I beg you to come to the stage. He'll be a magician's colleague. Drobnic presented the position of the Novi Slovenije delegation group, followed by counterpart Črnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u10	Hello, everyone in the hall! The high level of citizens' health is certainly a policy objective, and legislation, not only a high awareness, must also be targeted and this law, which it represents and sends to the government's adoption process, certainly has this purpose. If products are already produced, then they must be in such a way that they are not harmful to health or that they are harmful as little as possible, that they are excluded primarily from it, and that this habit, which is harmful to a person who has already made a decision, is not harmful to the one who is just in his presence. This must therefore be ensured by law, public interest. Thus, since 1997, our country has had this law in force, but it has been broken. It may also be because of unclear provisions and some things need to be harmonised in accordance with the European Union Directive. In particular, it was a question of advertising. Manufacturers imagine advertising in very different ways. They are here in front of the state, in front of the government, in front of the inspectors, certainly a few steps ahead, they are more resourceful, and so obviously there is nothing left to do but adopt more stringent provisions. Clearer provisions are also needed as regards the content of harmful substances, not just tar, which was until recently, but other substances that are harmful to health. It's just that these three now appear, i.e. nicotine and monoxide. In the parliamentary group, we wonder what the cost of this law is like. This law will, as we can see, require some employment, new employment and also some 148 or 145 million tolars. In the Group of Members, we believe that we also have the appropriate resources to do so, which could take on these tasks. Some equipment may still be needed, but not in the same way that it is written in the law. We will therefore not oppose the law because it has objectives that we do not oppose, even some instruments that can lead to the goal, but we ask ourselves at this point that the Ministry and the Minister do not find the right time to resolve the health situation, which is chaotic and problematic and then comes with laws that we do not oppose, or even a series of laws that are marginal and could be included in those "currical" proposals that our country should face. So, it's a matter of priority. Otherwise, we will not oppose the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u11	Well, thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. Colleague Silva Črnugelj will present the position of the United List of Social Democrats delegation, followed by counterpart Barovic. I'm a colleague of Montenegro's first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well welcomed, Minister Keber and Madam Secretary of State Mrs Jožica Mavčec Zakotnik, dear colleagues and fellow Members! Today, we are discussing amendments to and additions to the tobacco consumption restriction law, which, when changed in 1996 long ago, triggered a media storm. This law is one of the chains of restrictive laws. However, we do not read it in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats in this way. That's what it means to be restrictive and restrictive. This is a protection law for us because it protects the public interest, the interest of protecting the health of citizens and citizens, because health is a fundamental value and also a good national importance. For some, this is one of the most important public interests and is also a constitutional category. The law then set high goals and goals. As it has been established in practice, of course we can also assess laymen. All day - to - day observers can see that the 1996 law did have positive effects. Of course, these effects can be explained in their own way, but there have also been certain analyses. In business premises, classrooms, schools, kindergartens and hospitals, as well as in training centres and other public spaces, museums, archives are no longer clouds of smoke. The number of smokers in Slovenia is decreasing. Unfortunately, we can find that these smokers are among the young, unfortunately, slightly more. And especially in the segment of the female population, and in particular some of the emphasis, in the segment of the female population of childbearing age. In the United Social Democrats Group, we can also proudly say and praise that the smokers of the day have decided to stop smoking. And today we can solemnly say that there are no smokers in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. That we're all non-smokers. Of course, that took some effort. But marriage also had an effect between us. The reasons, some of you who were in the National Assembly at the time, you remember. The current amendment of the law enforces and aligns the law with Directive 2001/37 of the European Parliament and of the Council, bringing laws closer to other laws of the Member States on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and relating to warnings concerning health, harmfulness and other information relating to the packaging of tobacco products, advertising, certain measures related thereto. These changes offer a series of new protections, an explanation of what this is in principle and what the definition of a tobacco product is. From now on, sucking tobacco products is also considered tobacco. What is, what are its ingredients, thereby reducing the nicotine and tar content and determining the amounts of carbon monoxide. Labels with the password that smoking harms or kills, are very important and will be present under this law on all tobacco products. They will be printed on the front of the packaging in the 30 per cent surface area of the front. The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats notes that legal procedures and preparations are taken into account to take into account all the principles of social partnership and dialogue. That certain amendments and additions to this law are of such nature as to add certain obligations to owners or tenants of catering facilities who will have to ensure that these separate premises are for non-smokers and smokers. Among others, the law provides that space for non-smokers will have to be adequately equipped with ventilation devices. And we note in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats that this will, of course, require certain material costs among these service providers. Of course, we will support the law as such with all the consequences in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, and we also support the supervision of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, followed by a colleague of Brenčič's position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, and the presentation will be concluded by a colleague from Širc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister - you are still the Minister for Exchange for me, because you are obliged to do your job, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, health care is a very important concern, and there are probably nine hundred and ninety - nine of them among the thousands. Fifteen years ago, a study was conducted in Zasavje to explain why so many sick children were on the lungs. And they found that because of the fumes produced by the then industry, as well as the current thermal power plant, cement and so on, the sulphur content and so on and so forth. It was a study, a doctor's study, a master's degree. From then on until today, the thermoelectric power plant Trbovlje still has no filter device, it does not have one. We shut down the industry, shut down, put people on the road, that's how we got rid of the dirt. What do you want me to say? Don't take me now, please, as a smoker, don't take me like that. I don't rape anyone, I'm a lot around the world, where there's a place for smokers, I smoke, where there's a place for non-smokers, I don't smoke, and I respect order and rule. In addition, some colleagues and colleagues from interested communities have also highlighted, for my very justified reasons, this law, which bothers me, especially because it is simply written and therefore somewhat more stringent because it is part of European legislation. Yesterday or tonight I came from Koebenhaven, and that is also there - we know that the Scandinavians are very persistent and respectful - do not adhere to or do not have the kind of law that we want to adopt on behalf of the European Community. That's another fact that makes me think it's a little silly to read this; because I am, I have a lot of undertones here. Listen to the term in Article 7, the word "sorry kills", smoking harms, is really the term "kill." I'm going to make the law so the word "kill," "die" is banned. This term is ugly, whether real or not, I don't think it is, but the expression "sorry kills."I think sometimes it's necessary to think a little bit about it when making such laws. We have in Article 7 on page 20 a lot of expressions that I believe are justified and can be written, say, "sorry masses a vein and causes a heart attack". I am in favour of all these warnings being placed in all public institutions, schools, health homes, hospitals. I don't know where else to put it, or does he kill for the "sorry-kills" commercial?Oh, my God! The following Article 9c prohibits writing the content and type of a product. Listen, we also have to take the tobacco industry as an industry that gives a lot of money to this country. He's giving it to me! And it must not be written by the manufacturer that his product is slightly different, materially different, because it has less tar content because it has less nicotine content!? I don't know why he can't. According to the Slovenian National Party’s colleagues, such a law must not prohibit anyone from drawing or describing a different content of a product. Then also automotive manufacturers can't write that, I don't know, one electric car, another car uses 3.5 liters because it has this and that and the third one nine liters because it has a volume of 5,000 cubic centimeters. If we look at the first paragraph of Article 13, it is contrary to itself, which says in another blah, blah, blah, "the word so as to prevent air mixing by proper ventilation or physical separation". You cannot prevent air mixing by proper ventilation. I think it is, I just want to warn you that this law is written I don't know why or why. And last but not least, a new sentence for the owner of an object. Okay. But there's another way to stop this harmful habit. There's another way. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] I'll be done in a minute. [[...]] At a price, the price of a tobacco product, which should be so high that it will hit people, not prevention. And the effect of the first marriage. The effect is that in front of my house in the Bellies, high school people gather and everyone in the first grade is smoking with primary school kids. That's it. Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party of such a law, we will not support such a superficial act.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. Mr Brenčič will now present the position of the SLS Group of Members, a colleague of the LDS Group of Members of Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, President. In our parliamentary group, we can simply say that a broader social view of the bill is useful and also necessary. If nothing else, it works preventively to maintain health and, as such, certainly contributes to changing our thinking. For us, it is also quite positive that certain economic operators, which are negatively affected by this law, have taken this law quite correctly. It is also necessary to acknowledge to the applicant that in the replacement text he has taken into account the gross of all those arguments that have been put in place and then introduced into law, introduced into the draft law and today also contains the law. So that's pretty good. Of course, the most controversial feature is Article 13, and above all it is possible to say that there is a legitimate fear of certain innkeepers, that it will be very difficult to separate the space physically. But just as he likes to step into a place where, with his cigarette on fire, I like to go in and eat something, but not in this smoke. So it will take a shorter time to overcome this and we will all be satisfied. Of course, for some inn, this will also be an insurmountable obstacle, perhaps given the status of the building in which the restaurant is located, but this must also be resolved in a way. We will, of course, support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič. The colleague of Shirca will present the views of the LDS Group of Members and will conclude a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u18	Your Honor! There is no doubt in our parliamentary group that this law is being considered. For a number of reasons. Undoubtedly, however, because of the fundamental or fundamental objective of this law, which provides a high level of health protection and in this respect we understand it. Notwithstanding the fact that the tobacco law change agency has certainly fucked the European Directive. It is true, however, that adapting with Europe's legal standards, that this adaptation is not even questionable in this case, since Slovenia's first or early restrictions of the first years, in relation to the limitation of the consumption of tobacco products, were fairly reasonable, rational and also effective. Thus, this time, the amendments to the law set limits on tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide content in cigarettes, lay down rules on the information given on tobacco products, as well as on other sites, particularly those in the domain of already limited advertising and regulating the deadlines for the enforcement of the ban. If I limit myself to the most important. Warning signs or warnings on tobacco products are clearly defined in the Directive and, given that today, you have repeatedly mentioned them, it is necessary to take into account the fact that these are very precise instructions that in fact demonstrate some kind of strictness that the European Union has determined where it makes sense. At the same time, they also talk about the fact that necessity is left to the choice between the dictions offered. We know that we have two mandatory dictatorships that will now have to come to tobacco products, plus one that the manufacturer can choose between 14 possible. But it is true that there is a comparison here that I could look for in warnings between road regulations, I take a comparison between those warnings that say that if I quote, we will take responsibility for killing ourselves or for seriously harming ourselves, both to ourselves and to others around us. But these are warnings that we can compare, as I said, with road signs, where the board, for example, is falling stones, is a serious warning that we should be careful, but at the same time it means taking responsibility for the event that the stones actually fall on us. But, as has already been said, this kind of accuracy of the commandment certainly testifies to the accuracy of European judgments, which are certainly also symbolic, not only of real value. In short, with the unification of the sampling method, when establishing a measuring laboratory, when determining the tasks of health inspection, when the sentence is tightened, when further defining the advertising authorisation, including the indirect one and so on, the law also introduces corrections to the separation of premises for smokers and non-smokers, provided by the owners of the premises and in which my predecessor has somewhat questioned the question of how much awkwardness this eventually causes to the owners of the premises. But the fact is, if we go back to the first objective of the law on ensuring a high level of health protection, this can be a relative issue. The authorisation of advertising, exceptions within the restriction, very precisely, so to speak, picolitically precisely defined, is a very clearly defined typography of letters, mentioned and error is only in helvetics, the defined size of the space to be advertised, the very clear command of seconds of mandatory explanations on the electronic film is also given. In short, everything is commanded. I must add, however, that this command is also symbolically important. However, it is certainly the most important arrangement that defines the enforcement deadlines for both the sale and production of tobacco products, limited or established in 2004, and the deadlines for the sale of tobacco products outside the European Union, which date back to 2007. But I think it's the core of this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague of Shirca, for presenting the views of the LDS Group. No amendments have been tabled to the draft law and the discussion on the articles is therefore not possible. I therefore conclude this debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third hearing of the proposal will be held tomorrow, 18 December of this year. This concludes this agenda item. At 4:55 p.m., we will continue our session, including with representatives of the government, with a second reading of the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations under the loan contract with the bank Kreditanstalt of EUR 50 million. I'll have the session adjourned by then. At 4:55 p.m., we will resume the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u20	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, the second draft law on the enlargement of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations under the loan agreement at the Bank of Creditanstalt Für Wiederaufbau amounting to EUR 50 million. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which did not sign up for the debate. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. The Chairman of the Committee to present the report is not. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Branko Kelemina has the floor to present to us the position of the Group of Members of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. First of all, there is no great surprise that there is no representative of the Ministry of Finance in the establishment, or, however, where it is, I don't know, there is no representative of the Finance Committee, which is the bearer of this, no report, I don't know, it's weird. [[...]] Moreover, I think that laws such as this should not be adopted at all until a new government is put in place. This is a matter of debt, and I wonder if a representative, a new candidate for a minister, is aware of these burdens that we are accepting these days. Indeed, this is not the first such law, this 50 million-euro guarantee, but we have adopted a similar law on the Infrastructure Committee today, if I am not mistaken, for 120 million euros, for the same purposes. In addition, I am surprised, our delegation group, how is it that we actually rent credits for the construction of motorways at different levels, once the Ministry of Finance, once the Ministry of Transport, but essentially the same system for the construction of the highway system in Slovenia. Why this duality? However, when I ask, and I want to have a review of the guarantees and loans so far, as well as the loans envisaged below, and perhaps then the placement of any new commitment or the adoption of a new commitment in some review, it is not. In short, the National Assembly does not know what it is accepting, and we should not even see such a law at this stage when we do not have a government, according to our assessment, as we believe in the Social Democratic Party. In addition, a number of other issues are raised, given the long-term nature of these loans. Indeed, all these loans, as we can see, will be repaid there somewhere perhaps in 2030, so in the generation of still unborn children, we are imposing on their shoulders huge obligations that will have to be settled someday. In short, the government representative, whoever's already here, would also ask: why are we hiring credits at different levels for the same content? And I'd like to ask you to explain why we don't have it all in one department. We also do not know now whether these loans that we will receive or enforce through other ministries have been agreed by these ministries of finance and whether these loans are as favourable as they are at the bank of Kreditanstalt of Austria. And I'd like an explanation. Our parliamentary group is likely to support this bill in that part, or each Member will decide whether or not to support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The position of the Novi Slovenije Group will be presented by Dr. Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, a financial representative! This is the last time we've dealt with this law on the Finance Committee, and I would somehow comment on what I said there. This is said to come from the finance ministry, which means that it has some characteristics that are not necessarily good. One of these features is sure that the marriage was very poorly prepared, so that our law enforcement service had to correct and now these amendments or proposals have been adopted into law, and this has to some extent improved the whole situation. But on the other hand, I would also say that I always miss what comes from the finance ministry, that there is no single system reception, how to present the data. We always get another scheme, so it's very hard to compare between last and present and so on. And this is not justifiable in the Ministry of Finance, and it seems to me that we should improve this so that we can follow the whole thing. I have already mentioned and asked about some things on the committee or committee, since there are four guarantees, two guarantees, three ratifications, and I would like to know how, when and under what conditions, these guarantees will be taken into account, and I would also like to know when these guarantees will come into effect. Otherwise, Article 3 states that Slovenia does not assume the responsibility of another than that it will have to pay if Dars does not pay. Of course, I'd almost say that, one legal fiction, because if Dars couldn't pay, the question is if the state could pay. It is so that we want to know in every such law how much we are in debt, under what conditions, and so on. I am also promised, and here is the gentleman who promised me that he would send me a written report or an explanation, and I have not yet received it. As far as our New Slovenia Group is concerned, I would like to mention that what remains of us, except that we are voting for a law that we do not know how the state will pay for it and not from any income. This is said to be the case with us today or today, no one can assure us that these incomes will be there. For if this is paid from a road dinar or a tolar, then our trust is rather small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. So the Slovenian People's Party will support this bill. Indeed, in those days when we have considered this law, and even today, when we have dealt with a similar law, for the purpose of hiring new loans from the European Bank, that is just the way it is. The money to build the highway needs to be collected. In 2005 the road link between Maribor and Kopra was supposed to be open. And in 2010, the highway cross, which is supposed to connect our country most with all other countries. 30 years have passed since the opening of the first Slovenian four-way motorway. And this year or in 2003 it is dedicated to maintaining, managing and building highways of 116.5 billion tolars and would be allocated 40 percent more than this year. So we don't know how anyone can imagine not hiring and giving consent to renting credits. The funds, this EUR 50 million, will be reimbursed by Dars from collected tolls, but for those parts of motorways that are now most affected and most needed investments or funding: Lenart-Beltinci, especially here is the stage of the Vučja vas-Beltinci with reconstruction of R-353, Razdrto-Vipava, part of the Rebernica stage, and Krška vasBrežje. All of this is €50 million. The loan is due to be drawn up by 30.12.second year, and the principal is due in 2003 and should start to be paid in six-year instalments as of 30 June 2008. So we have a five-year moratorium. Our party or our parliamentary group will also support the proposal for the Republic of Slovenia's guarantee of a loan contract with Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau of EUR 50 million. Without the means, the highway can't be built. The criticism is that it's not building enough, it's building too little, and we've seen where it's taken, especially at the gas toll, and when we talk about it, we're going to object to the use of dedicated money for something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the bill will be held tomorrow, 18.12.2002, at the end of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and also interrupt the meeting. At 17.15 a.m., we will continue to discuss item 4 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u27	I'm moving to four. At the end of the day - Second defensively proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister of Environment, Space and Energy, Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law amending the nature conservation law is, I can say, a more organisational nature. So far, both the tasks of producing the nature protection guidelines and the tasks of issuing the nature conservation consensus have been located at the nature protection institution. We believe, however, that it is more appropriate to concentrate professional staff and professional tasks in the institution itself, where they are now, while administrative procedures, and this is also the issue of consensus, and to transfer them to the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. This is a major change in this law. Otherwise, there's a variety of other content that means everything, if you let me use that term, sort of cleaning up the marriage. The law, when it was adopted, was just like every law, because it was nothing special, had some unconscionable things in it that had been cleaned through time through the implementation of the law. Here I can mention a slightly awkwardly defined content of the nature-protection guidelines and an awkwardly defined content of the nature-protection consensus, and conditions and guidance, and so on; otherwise, the law brings in some other minor novelties. One is the abolition of the previous consent of the nature protection agency in transport with real estate in protected areas, for example in parks. Secondly, it provides a definition of the status of favourable conservation status of habitats of species or habitat types. A third such minor innovation is the possibility that the local community and the state, i.e. the government, together set up a potentially protected area, such as a regional park. Otherwise, we anticipate some improvements or write down some of the improved definitions required by the adoption of the acquis of the European Union. However, it is also important to comply with the laws just adopted on the regulation of premises and on the construction of buildings, because it is now envisaged and becomes also in this law that the nature guidelines should be issued within one month after the municipality requests them or the contractor of the spatial act that it is necessary, that is an exception, if it is a particularly professional difficult task, to allow up to two months of preparation time. Otherwise, within 30 days of the preparation of a spatial act by the municipality, it is necessary to give an opinion on whether or not the guidelines are properly followed. There is no such agreement anymore. However, within the time limits provided for by the Construction Act, natural protection consent shall be issued in the process of obtaining building permits. In short, a series of minor amendments to the law under other adopted laws, given the experience we have in practice. The main content, however, is this organisational change in the division of the tasks of this nature protection institution. It may be somewhat unusual to deal with such organisational changes with a specific law, but the fact is that this institution was established by the Nature Conservation Act of 1999 and that it is not, as a body in the Ministry, that it should be amended by a government law, but that it is necessary to fall into this law. Otherwise, I hope that all the questions have been clarified on the home committee. After all, it also indicates that no amendment has been tabled. However, I must predict two harmonisation, minor harmonisation amendments after the third hearing is completed, due to the changes adopted at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask Mr Wolf to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister, in fact, the candidate for Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 36th regular meeting, on 3.12.2002, the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment held a second reading of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the legislative procedure. In addition to the proposed law, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also took part in the meeting of the Committee. The opinion on the bill was also given by the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Infrastructure Committee held a debate and vote on the individual articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled, and adopted some of its amendments. Thus, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment adopted the amendment of Mr Dusan Vukka by Articles 19 and 26 and 31. The amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the amendment of Ambassador Dusan Vukko to the 26th Article became irrelevant as the Committee drafted its amendment. The Committee has drawn up three amendments to the articles set out in the report of the Infrastructure Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The opinion of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franz Lenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honourable Minister with co-worker, colleagues and fellow Members! The new protection of natural values in the territory of the country of Slovenia is certainly an important issue that requires thoughtful solutions, as it contributes significantly to the preservation of nature and consequently to the quality of human life. The Nature Conservation Act, adopted in 1999, sought to find an appropriate system to ensure the uniform protection of natural values by establishing a relatively strong and independent organisation, a nature protection institution. The institution is intended primarily to be a professional organisation, but the law in force gives powers to a number of other administrative tasks. The efficiency and expertise of the institution are at risk due to the excessive burden of these tasks. The proposal for a law that we are considering today adequately defines the competence of the ministry, which, if adopted, will be primarily responsible for the tasks of an administrative nature, including supervisory tasks, and the institution will be able to concentrate more effectively on professional tasks. In our opinion, the bill proposes effective solutions, as regards the rationalisation of nature conservation organisation and the provision of resources to finance the tasks laid down by the law. In the Democratic Party of Pensioners Group, we have also examined the opinions and comments that were expressed in the initial proposal for the October 2002 Act and we are pleased to note that most of the ideas that we consider important have been properly implemented in the proposal under consideration today. Content standards reflected by law cannot be applied without an effective functional basis. Achieving greater efficiency of the system would make an important contribution to nature conservation. Moreover, the adoption of the law is also important due to the implementation of the acquis of the European Community in the Slovenian legal order. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners therefore supports the proposal, as set up by the Government and complemented by its mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. No, no, no. Then the position of the New Slovenia Group - Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u34	Retired Minister, colleague and colleague, Honourable Chairman! In short, I would like to say the position of New Slovenia. If we could only protect nature by adopting the law, then I would be delighted to say that these adjustments are what will bring more protection, which will result in the spread of natural reserves where endangered plant and animal species are, but this is only seeming. For the essential detail or the crucial importance of the law is that such a law entails financial resources. And if you want to do that, then you need a lot of money. When we spoke a little earlier about roads, it was said that not even this country, but even less of course the municipalities, had enough funding to actually put all these laws adopted by Parliament into practice. The current Nature Conservation Act contains many restrictions on property rights. For example, Article 9 provides that a landowner who is not lawful under law must allow for a safe transition and other general use and carry out the tasks of preserving biodiversity and protecting natural values. Article 51 then states that the activity or use of such land shall be restricted, in Article 64, after which the implementation of interventions into the premises shall be prohibited in the natural reserve. Then it is the same in Article 86, where property rights are also restricted, and then Article 89 states: "In the case of restrictions and prohibitions, the owner shall have the right to compensation of 89. Article." This compensation shall cover loss or reduction of real estate income. And this is where we run into a big problem. Thus, the law provides when, in practice, it comes to the need for owners to write down how much compensation they are entitled to, and then we run into problems there. I remember when we were trying to protect an area in our congregation, because of the lack of funds that owners would receive, they were all against it. I don't know if this law, which the Minister calls an organisational change, actually means any significant progress in this area. I know that in an area in our congregation, we have protected a bird called the golden one years ago, and certain activities have been banned there. Since this was a wine-growing and fruit-growing area, the use of certain chemical products and certain other measures were prohibited, but the compensations were set at a low level. So they did not substitute for what people actually lost when they were prescribed restrictions. And of course, the project fell into the water, the farmers did not comply with the ban, but what the congregation was willing to give them or the state was willing to give them as a substitute, and they did not want to have because it was miserable little. So, of course, problems cannot be solved in this way. While we will support what the Minister says - organizational corrections - but we do not imagine that this law will make a substantial contribution to the protection and resolution of endangered species, if we do not increase, significantly increase the financial resources for these purposes. Well, it is said that the European Union would help us on this side and that we are actually following in this direction the directives that the European Union requires of us. If this is the case, we can also be successful in specific areas. However, if there is no money to actually pay compensation to owners, of course, I do not see the possibility that such a law would actually come to life in practice and could be implemented in the direction of greater protection of natural property in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. At the time of the adoption of the law on nature conservation, in the United Social Democrats Group, we drew attention to the extremely difficult text of the law and, in fact, to the kind of non-life attitude. And as it all appears, this is also reflected in practice, for this change of law naturally interferes with the form that was then advocated as far as the best. In our view, the protection and care of indigenous nature and cultural landscapes should, of course, be highly coordinated and, above all, supported by the interests of the local population and also by the interests of nature. It happens, however, that this law has indeed allowed for significantly worse measures to protect itself, but does not provide adequate solutions for the preservation of the cultural landscape created by man. And we also miss this in fact in these changes and additions to the Nature Conservation Act. The fact that the law was extremely demanding is, of course, reflected in this and probably the Ministry only realized that the nature protection agency has very large powers, which will of course be difficult to control in carrying out certain other tasks that we also want to place in space. Therefore, this change has, of course, been made that the administrative procedure is moving to the Ministry, the professional salary remains in the institution, but, of course, an important shift has been achieved, indicating that the content of the law is far, far too demanding for the management of nature conservation in the Slovenian space. Unfortunately, however, what is still evident in this law is somehow insistence that local communities do not have enough, obviously, confidence in the Ministry or government, as the protected area may also be established after this amendment by a government or the competent authority of one or more local communities or jointly by a government and a competent authority of one or more local communities. This is okay, but the problem is that, in fact, the government, through the regulation, can also adopt a wider protected area in which several municipalities are involved, a larger area and, of course, a regulation as a sub-legislative act cannot solve the problems that arise from the other laws already adopted, which also refer to the management of mainly state forests and state agricultural land in an area which are usually also potential land for insurance. In our view, it would be more appropriate, of course, to maintain the dictatorship as set out in Article 16 of the State's jurisdiction, that the national park and the protected area, which is of exceptional importance to the State or of great international importance, be declared by law, remain, and that the wider protected areas should be set up jointly by local communities, and may be supported, not least, by the Government. However, if we really want to have good solutions, such broader insurance should also be provided for in this law, not by a sub-legislative act. In part, there was a kind of favorite area on the Committee, which relates mainly to the management within the protected area, because in the fact that a large part of the park area was meant in the part owned by the State and managed and managed by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, in the event of the park being declared, there would be a new manager who would reinstate his regime and poor ones who would have to comply with and follow this regime. That is why, of course, we support the law with the amendments that have been made at the Committee's hearing and also with regard to the proposed harmonisation amendments mentioned by the Minister, we expect that we will get them in time so that we can also identify ourselves in time. Otherwise, we support the law, just as it was supplemented at the consideration of the parent’s working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u38	Your Honors are here! If the law at least fulfils the tasks defined by the title of the law, we will support it or support it in the Slovenian National Party. The fact is that the substance or subject matter of this law, according to our assessment in this country, is still essential - after preservation. However, allow me to touch the law on behalf of the Slovenian National Party in three or four points. If we say that the corrections have been made from 1999 until now and that most of them are designed positively, only with one, which we consider negative in the Slovenian National Party, we can view the law as suitable for consideration, in the following terms. If there has been a disagreement between the two actors in this area, i.e. in terms of the performance of administrative tasks, between the competent ministry and the public institution, the institution of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of the environment, it is, of course, appropriate to try to resolve the content and tasks of these two, and, as proposed within the Ministry, to separate the so-called administrative procedure and the professional institution, it is certainly necessary to welcome and accept this. On the other hand, it is important to say that even as far as direct control in nature is concerned, the point that in our midst of political options has all the support. However, the criticism or concern relates mainly to the part that somehow imposes financial burden on users, the content users of this law, and in particular to the part where the law allows the possibility of extending or collecting tickets for insured areas or parts thereof that are arranged for viewing or visiting. This part of the financial burden on visitors seems pointless. More lively and meaningfully, it would seem to us that the drafter of the law would determine the matter through Chapter 3 - financial implications, and that this part of the possible funding he would receive through visitors would be defined in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that this is a very small financial amount, which would be shown in kindness and in one of those functions of nature, which also makes it possible to understand nature. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the law, but we sincerely hope that this option, as the law offers among the main solutions, will not be achieved through the acquisition of funds through visitors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr President, the Secretary-General is also with us, which is an honor, because there are not many Members and Members, including the candidate for Minister, who are warmly welcomed on behalf of our Group of Members. So our parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the nature conservation law. We are optimistic, very much like the representative of the national party said: everything that we will prescribe with the law and we will do more than we have done so far is very important, because if we do nothing, it is the worst. The Nature Conservation Act has already been discussed in our National Assembly in 1999 and 2000. At that time, we may have misdirected the tasks to be performed by the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy and the Department of Nature Protection, i.e. the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Nature Protection. That is why the proposaler also wrote in order to put this law into practice: rationalisation in the field of nature conservation organisation and the provision of resources to finance nature conservation tasks. It is also very important for us to note that at the end of the presentation it is said that the amendment will not impose additional financial burdens on the state budget, but that the proposed regime does not have other consequences that would not already be mentioned in this paper. The redistribution and designation of tasks between the Ministry is referred to by law in Article 33, or in Article 111 of the original text, which states: "The Ministry shall carry out administrative tasks relating to the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of natural values under this Act." And in Article 34 or Article 117 of the original text, he says: "The institution performs the following tasks as a public service..." And that's where these tasks are listed. In our party, in the Group of Members, we are also pleased with the amendment to Article 37, paragraph 5, which referred to the agricultural land and forest fund before, and now says: "The owner of the protected area is responsible for the management of agricultural land and forests in the protected area." Thus, Article 37, or 148, of the original text, speaks of sources of financing or payment for certain tasks. And if all of this is done, we think it will be very good. This would be particularly noteworthy: "The State-wide natural security consensus shall be carried out by the Ministry responsible for the conservation of nature." That's paragraph 45. Secondly, irrespective of the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Nature and the Public Institute of the Triglav National Park shall complete the procedures for the issue of the natural protection consent which they have imposed pending the entry into force of this Act. I hope they do. Since we are optimistic and the law does not bring new burdens on the state budget, we will also support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dušan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support and assess that the most important objective of the amendment of the Law on the Conservation of Nature is rationalisation in the field of nature conservation organisation and simplification of certain administrative procedures while preserving the purpose of nature conservation. In particular, in the LDS Group, we support the following solutions to the amendment of the law. For the first time, it manages the majority of administrative tasks of the Ministry, while the professional tasks are carried out by the Office. That the law removes the pre-emptive right of the State and the local community to purchase immovable property in protected areas for the category of building land. That the prior consent of the Slovenian Institute for the Protection of Nature in the process of obtaining the consent of the administrative unit to transport for property in protected areas should be lifted in view of the burden on the parties in the administrative procedure and the disproportionateity of the measure in relation to the intended objective of the regulation. We support the solution that the possibility of joint establishment of protected areas by the State and the local community is legally regulated, together with the procedure and arrangements for relations between the founders. We support the solution that, in order to provide financial resources for the financing of nature conservation, it is proposed that a significant extension of the group of taxpayers be proposed for the payment of a natural security benefit to persons who need natural goods in protected areas, whether they are owned by a country or by a local community, and that the amendment also expands the possibility of collecting an entry fee for insured areas or parts thereof that are regulated for sightseeing or visiting. According to our assessment, the most important amendment to the proposed law is covered by the proposed amendment of Articles 26 and 31 of the Law on Nature Conservation. In particular, I would draw attention to those parts of the provisions set out in those two Articles, which represent a major step forward towards rationality and simplification of the administrative procedure. Firstly, the State authorities and local authorities responsible for the preparation of spatial acts must obtain natural protection guidelines in the process of preparing these acts. The law establishes that the nature guidelines are a special status for the area subject to nature conservation rules. Where it is found in the preparation of these nature-protection guidelines that these acts, in addition to areas with special status, will also be included in the areas covered by the adopted nature-preservation programmes, the technical material may also be produced for those areas, but only as an optional expert recommendation to the authors of such acts. An important provision in Article 31 is that the nature guidelines must be drawn up within 30 days, except within 60 days, not more than 6 months. However, in the procedure for the adoption of spatial acts, it is necessary to obtain a natural protection opinion, which is defined by the law as an opinion on the acceptability of spatial regulation in terms of nature protection. An organisation which is responsible for the conservation of nature shall issue this natural protection opinion no later than 30 days after receipt of the request. In the event that this opinion is not issued within this period, it shall be deemed that there are no comments on the envisaged spatial arrangements. It is also important that the provision of Article 31 of this Law is in line with the provisions of the Construction Act, which means that if a project is being developed to obtain a building permit for an object located in an area governed by a location plan, it is considered by law that the natural protection consent to the project solutions has already been obtained from the date of the issue of the conservation opinion on the site plan. This provision also lays down clear deadlines and obligations for the Ministry when preparing this natural protection agreement. Therefore, because of these solutions, we will also support the law in the Liberal Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law at the end of the meeting tomorrow. This concludes this agenda item. We'll make it to point five at 6 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u44	We're moving to five. Period of the day - Second defense of the proposed law on the supplementation of the housing law. The draft law was tabled by Mr Roman Jakič. With regard to this law, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the applicant, Mr Roman Jakič, to further explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! In accordance with Article 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to create opportunities for citizens and citizens to obtain adequate housing, all the statistics collected from the housing sector show that housing needs to be strengthened financially. Policies in this regard are divided into national housing programmes. One important measure to implement these measures is to increase access to housing at an acceptable price, where the investor can directly enforce the country's adopted housing policy at all stages of housing construction, which can also be achieved through, inter alia, the investment role of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. This was the main guide, dear colleague and colleague, that, on my part, on 1 February 2000, it was said, two years ago, that the law was introduced, also on the basis of the then and present national housing savings scheme, which entered into which 26,000 savers entered. This fact required that housing supply be increased as soon as possible as it was insufficient and, of course, too expensive. One of the conditions, as I have said before, is to ensure an increased supply of municipally equipped building plots. And, as you know, municipalities are generally unable to buy building land when offered on the open market because budget resources for building land management are used according to plans, and this does not, as a rule, allow for a rapid response to the market offer or the proposed exercise of the pre-emptive right as can be done by independent or natural persons. Therefore, the municipality cannot compete equally with other buyers of building land, thus reducing the possibility of carrying out their legitimate tasks in managing them. As a result, there are also worse opportunities for housing and for the implementation of the spatial plans and implementing acts adopted. Well, and of course, as I said, then a law was introduced that would give the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia an opportunity to agree with the municipalities, an opportunity to become an investor and thereby reduce prices. It is not my fault, of course, that the law on public funds, which in fact gave the housing fund this opportunity, was passed and I am pleased that the law that I have tabled, through the law on public funds and the proposed system law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the procedure or already in the procedure, in some way allows what is already being implemented. As you know, colleagues and colleagues, with 43 municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia, such an agreement between the Ministry, the Housing Fund and the municipality was adopted. 743 apartments, non-profit and social, this country managed to make. And if they're going to write letters of intent in Cyprus for the construction of 300 apartments, in Maribor 1,000 and in Ljubljana more than 1,000 apartments, then I'm going to be happy that there was a little lump that was ruined in February 2000, then there was quite a bit of snow, of course it landed in one big lump, and that it became meat, and that hopefully we will be able, above all, to the young families, those who are included in the national housing savings scheme, and, of course, those who are not in it, however, will be able to get to non-profit or social housing, whose price will be lower than it is now. Thank you. However, as a proposaler, of course, I support the decision of the Infrastructure Committee, which, of course, wants this law to be withdrawn from the procedure for a simple reason, because: for the first time, as I said, the Law on Public Funds allows for the investment of the Housing Fund, and for the second time, of course, the system law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent Ministry is in the procedure, and therefore, of course, I will vote for the withdrawal myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The government did not report to the debate. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has Jože Tanko - I apologize, he said earlier that he did not want the Group to postpone its position. The position of Nova Slovenije will be presented by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Mr. Aloys Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The report you yourself may have adopted in the draft law on the amendment of the housing law, which was tabled by Mr Roman Jakič, is only to say that two opinions of the legal and legislative service have been submitted to this report, one legal opinion since the government of Dr Andrej Bajuk, when the government has actually supported the amendment of this law and, of course, now this opinion, which is now drafted in the proposal for a law that states that no such amendment is necessary in the light of the amendment of the law on public funds and that the housing fund can invest in such a way as the proposal by the proposer. In fact, as a parliamentary group, we support this change and we will vote against the withdrawal of this bill from the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, he's not here. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the proposal by the working body that the proposal for a law supplementing the housing law is not suitable for further consideration. The proposaler, Sir Jakič, has already said something about the reasons that led to this unusual situation, that the drafter proposes the withdrawal of his own law or that he understands why it is no longer up to date. However, I would like to explain the position of the Group of Members, why we will vote in this way. Mr Jakič's proposal was the result of the coming effects of the National Housing Savings Scheme, which we believe will take place in 2000. [[?]] has led to a significant increase in housing demand and housing market conditions do not provide adequate housing supply. As is known, there is also an entirely new housing law in the ordinary procedure in the National Assembly, which in the second paragraph of Article 147 gives the Housing Fund the possibility of borrowing and is defined as an investor in the housing market in Article 148. In our view, both provisions allow for an increase in the State budget's debt, as the Housing Fund is financed from a state budget which foresees a substantial increase in budgetary resources for future budgetary periods. We would like to recall that the Bank of Slovenia, a few years ago, decided to introduce a national housing savings scheme, drew attention to the precautionary nature of such projects, which may have major consequences on prices in the real estate market or other parts of the capital market and the banking system. In our Group's view, the situation in the real estate market is worrying and can lead to serious consequences. It is important to be aware that the financial crises in the world show that as many as two out of three crises have been caused by inadequate conditions in the real estate market. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, in the framework of government efforts, we will support a law that will introduce the possibility of setting up real estate investment funds, which together with the possibility of starting mortgage banking, which, as is known, is already preparing a finance portfolio, will provide conditions for cheaper housing. In our view, this approach is better than a housing fund policy that seeks to fill the essential shortcomings of the real estate market with State interventionism. Article 68 of the Constitution provides that the State creates the possibility for citizens to obtain suitable housing also means the State's obligation to take care of the conditions for the creation of a real estate market. We are also committed to this by the "Habitat Agency", which we have ratified as a country of Slovenia. As is known, it lives in Slovenia for 90 % of the population in their own apartments, and this is a large percentage of other countries around the world. In our view, the State should ensure that housing is provided primarily to socially and otherwise vulnerable groups of the population; otherwise, it should ensure the creation of a private rental housing fund that will enable young families to respond quickly and effectively to housing needs. Housing investment funds are a form that enables such solutions. Thank you very much. So, as it is said, the parliamentary group supports the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will vote on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body in accordance with the meeting's time frame today after the conclusion of the 6th item of the agenda. I hereby end this item of the agenda and also the meeting until 6.25 p.m. when we move on to the 6th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the presidency of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u51	Respected and respected! We're moving to six. Agenda item - Other defenses draft law on the provision of conditions for the function of the President of the Republic. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr Matjaž Nahtigal, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Legal Service, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u52	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and honourable Members! As has already been explained in the preceding hearing, the proposal for this law stems from a formal commitment adopted by the National Assembly in 1999 and then ordered the Government to draft a law on the President of the Republic. There are no major concerns about the need for this law in the legal profession. For it is the only remaining state function, the only holder of state authority that has not yet been regulated by law. The Law on Members, the Government Act, the Constitutional Court Act and other laws also lay down in their provisions material conditions for the performance of these functions. The institution of the President of the Republic as a constitutional category therefore requires separate legal arrangements. The draft law, as has already been explained in detail in the preceding reading, comes from other, comparable countries and, of course, from some assessment, as well as from the sense of statehood and evaluation of this function. The further evaluation of this proposal is, of course, in the hands of Members and Members, which has been specifically explained both in the transitional treatment and in the treatment of the home committee. I believe that both the preliminary consideration and the discussions on the parental committee, as well as the guidelines, as well as the amendments tabled, show that it is possible to obtain such a law, on the one hand, which ensures the dignified and constitutional exercise of the presidency of the Republic of that country, and on the other hand this law is based on an assessment and evaluation of the actual situation and capabilities, as has been imposed both in the previous hearing and the outcome of the hearings and discussions on the parental committee, and this also reflects the amendments tabled. Therefore, we are proposing that the amendments tabled by the parent committee are still an appropriate or appropriate basis for the follow-up procedure and for the adoption of a law-constant and correct law, which, on the one hand, will ensure the decent performance of this constitutional function and, on the other hand, be based on the actual situation and capacity of this company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u54	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Committee's report, I would first point out that, in addition to the report, you have also received a correction of the report on the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members - because there has been a minor error in the text and, of course, it is true that this correction of the report has taken place. With regard to the consideration of the law in the second reading, I must say that the whole law has been thoroughly shaken, in fact, to take into account the opinion of the legislative and legal service in this regard, and we have also heard the opinion of the State Council Commission on the political system, but their opinion could not be taken into account, since the National Assembly has already decided that the law is suitable for second reading. The main debate was on Articles 13, 21 and 22, which included Article 13 concerning the communication of the President of the Republic, and Article 21 and Article 22 dealt with the situation after the end of the term of office. As shown in the report, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 8, 9 and 13. These amendments were proposed by the Socialist Party's Group of Members, but did not accept the amendments of the same Group of Members to Articles 11, 15, 16, 19, 21 and 27 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to Articles 22 and 27. Therefore, some amendments to some other articles have become irrelevant. The Committee has also drafted its amendments by amending Articles 16, 18, 21, 22, to delete Article 25, paragraph 26 and adopted, in view of the fact that Article 26 was deleted, the text of Article 27 was also corrected. So much for this law, which was said on the Internal Policy Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first debate on the draft law at the September meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 16.12.2002. Today you have also received two amendments on the bench, namely Articles 8 and 9, as well as two amendments. Allow me, of course, to point out, on this occasion, that, in the Rules of Procedure adopted by the National Assembly, there are no provisions for the second reading of the draft law which would allow the withdrawal, amendment or completion of the amendments already tabled by the eligible investors in the second reading. In fact, this National Assembly assessed it as a legal void that could be filled until its express arrangements were filled with interpretations, and Mr Pohorec, Vice-President, proposed to the Commission that it accept the interpretation. In particular, his proposal was explicit and the question whether in the second reading of the draft law at the national assembly it is possible for the applicants to withdraw the amendment. The Commission has adopted a mandatory interpretation which states that in the second reading of the draft law, the amendment may be withdrawn by the amendment or amendments tabled at a meeting of the National Assembly. This can be done until the end of the debate on the individual article proposed by the amendments, and the same is true for the third reading of the bill. The business commission has narrowed its decision to the proposaler's question of whether the withdrawal is possible. Today, as President, of course, I have a situation ahead of me when I have a change of amendment on the table and I have to accept, in this situation alone, an explanation as to how the amendment of the proposal for a second reading at the National Assembly is to be adopted. I will base my explanation on the position of the legislative and legal service which it has given to the business commission when it has taken a decision on the situation and on the issue to which it has explicitly defined itself, this is the issue of the withdrawal of the amendment. In particular, I would like to quote you from the position of the legislative and legal service, where it says that we believe that the amendment's proposal in the legislative procedure can in principle be compared to the legislative proposal, so the legislative and legal service considers that it shows that the possibility of having an amendment in all its dimensions, including its withdrawal, amendment and supplementation, is still valid in all stages of the legislative procedure, since such regulation is also meaningfully envisaged for the proposal of the law as a significantly more influential instrument. Therefore, in this situation, when I have before me amendments to the two amendments that have been properly tabled, I believe that the amendment is possible, in a meaningful manner as set out in Article 131, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure, with a second reading at the level of the working body. I am obliged to accept this, and I explain it this way: if anyone is not satisfied with my explanation, please ask the business committee to decide on this issue as well. I personally believe that, if we decide, the taxpayer of the amendment, when he makes it available to him, - the business commission has decided to have the withdrawal - is my assessment and my decision that the proposer may also amend the amendment by the end of the discussion on the article and the amendment to which he has been tabled. Thus, I am putting first in the debate Article 8 and the amended amendment of the LDS Club of Members. You have this amendment on the bench. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Sok, please. Then Mr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u56	If you'll excuse me, Madam President. I would like to inform you that your colleagues on the business committee a few days ago have objected to such an explanation as you did today. I don't know if the LDS position has changed. Although I support this argument of yours because we were defending it at the time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u57	I'm sorry to take your word. I am here as chairman, and as a lawyer alone, I accept such a position.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u58	That's what I told you in support of, because it's likely that colleague Anderlich would correct me if that wasn't the real explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u59	I opened the debate on Article 8 and the amended amendment. I ask that we stick to the scope and content that we are discussing. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Dr. Brace, please. You have spoken to me, but I ask that we discuss Article 8 and the amended amendment of the LDS Group to this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u60	In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that there is no reason to support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, which reads as "unless otherwise specified by this law". We think there's some basic facts blurring around here. Today’s change, which is now under discussion, also points to this. It is a complete misunderstanding of the system of public servants and a few months after the adoption of this law to deny the basic idea. Now, here's a proposal from the Liberal Democracy, paragraphs 8 and 9, which I hope you don't mind, because it connects. They're both connected. This is because now, with this correction that we have received on the table today, which is a really good practice of some, they are classified as officials, in addition to the Deputy General, the Secretary-General, as well as advisers. In the state administration, we have a bunch of advisors who don't have the status of an official, and we make automatic differences. I therefore argue that both amendments to Articles 8 and 9 are derogations from the Law on the System of Public Servants and it is clear that this Parliament or this ruling majority is not capable of consistent reform. A few months after the adoption of the Law on Public Servants, which is intended to create order in this area, we have made an exception. I very much ask you why a consultant in the office of the President of the State would be more valuable than an adviser in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. What's the difference, tell me! This is absolutely about favoring something. According to the Law on Public Servants, it is quite clear that the Minister has the right to have his own office, the Prime Minister, and, logically, the President of the Republic. There are people in this office who are bound to a mandate. The term of office of the Prime Minister, the Minister, the President of the Republic shall also expire on them. That's why they have 20 extras to pay because he's tied to time. And the thing is clear. But the Liberal Democracy has decided to follow its path, as always, because it can afford it. But there is no reason for us to make differences between the Prime Minister's advisor and the President's advisor. So we're not going to back it up. Please don't undermine what we just did in this National Assembly. Let us vote against these two pointless amendments and at least keep the law for force. There's been so many of these shifts from practice. Look, you put it through the Minister for Regional Development when it is absolutely clear that regional development is in the economy under the State Administration Act. But now we have the Minister for Regional Development, we have the Secretary of State for Regional Development in the Ministry of Economy. That's crazy. But this madness was created by you or your mandate-holder. And I could count it. But what I'm trying to say is that this is not how one serious country's legislation works. Ladies and gentlemen, Members, we are professionals, but you are acting like amateurs. Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. First Mr. Lavrinc, then Mr. Rokavec. Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm afraid Dr. Brace's colleague didn't understand the point of these two amendments, and that's why I'm going to explain them. First of all, he's right in some way, and then he's wrong. I'll tell you why I don't think so. Madam Vice-President, I understand the enthusiasm of the Social Democrats for my implementation, but let it not be loud enough to disturb me at work.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u63	I'm asking you nicely for peace to be--
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u64	Look what this is all about. For example, if I start with the government now, like you, Dr. Brace, there may be a presidential finding. The president finds out that one minister is not doing well. Find out you're supposed to blow the team, and of course that's why they're replacing it. He proposes and then we do it here in the National Assembly. In your opinion, however, the Prime Minister would be sentenced to his first choice, i.e. to what he chose at the beginning of his term of office to do with him, whether he does well or not. That's why we don't think it's right. That's the first one. Secondly, the fear of being multiplied there by a crowd of officials is, in my opinion, superfluous. After all, we are the ones here in the National Assembly who accept the budget, and we are the ones who will even set wages. Which means it's not necessary for someone to be an official, to be sure they have a higher salary than, say, a top-paid public servant. Absolutely not. After all, we will talk about it when we adopt this decree here. Well, that was actually the purpose of these two amendments, and to be honest, they're returning the situation back to where it was when the drafter came in with the bill at the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u65	Mr. Rokavec, then Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. We will also not support this amendment in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, in particular because we believe that there is no need for the President of the Republic to have officials in this position who are considered to be a political function. In fact, according to our constitution and regulation, we do not have a presidential system, but we do have a parliamentary system. And according to our constitution, the President of the State represents the country and has the powers of Article 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, at the request of the National Assembly, the President of the State shall give an opinion on an individual issue or formulate or propose certain proposals, but shall not implement the country's policy. Therefore, I think that these amendments of the LDS Group in Articles 8 and 9 are in particular derogating from the systemic issue that has been settled in our Constitution, and I think that the question will actually be raised on this basis too, whether it is also a constitutional intervention, an intervention in our constitution, in relation to relations between the President of the Republic or the parliamentary system. Therefore, we will not support either Article 8 or Article 9 in our parliamentary group of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. First Dr. Brace, then Mr. Lavrinc. Dr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 9 reads: this is the amendment that I am apologizing to Mr Lavrinc, I do not understand: "The President of the Republic may appoint the chief of staff and the advisors of the President of the Republic to serve as an official in the state authorities in accordance with the law." That is to say, as far as I understand it, but of course my understanding cannot be as deep as the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee, he is the President of the Republic in office to say, "Yes, my chief of staff will be the official, the advisors I have will be the officials." This article allows - Mr. Lavrinc? Well, now it's a little easier because he nodded to me, and of course it means something. Now it looks like I understand. But now I'm asking Mr. Lavrintz. What about the Civil Service Act? Please take a look at the famous table in the law that gives the classification of public servants. And there are counselors, for example. But they're not functionaries. And they can't be, by nature things aren't functionaries. Here we exercise some privilege that is not decent. We are creating a difference between government officials only because they have a small mandate with the President of the Republic, who, after the constitution, is more valuable than his advisers, and they will have a higher salary than they have with the Prime Minister. But that's not going to work. Please. Let's be reasonable. We cannot make such differences just when someone likes them, even though it is a matter of liberal democracy. Let's be realistic, admit a mistake and move on with this amendment, but it really doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please. Then Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. I haven't heard from a bigger structure than my friend Rokavec has produced in a long time. I'd say he's not just confabulating something else. What's unconstitutional here, what he's up to, I'll say he's probably the only one who understands. I'd say that. What the current role of the President of the State is, it is known from the Constitution and the Constitution, after all, was written because at that time the consolidation of forces was as it was. And you wanted to reduce it. Definitely the one who wrote the constitution. Putting in the same position or equalizing counselors that the Prime Minister can have a crowd and are public servants and advisors who are here with the President seems to me to be unserious. Because these advisors play a kind of role as ministers in the government. So this is the first one. Second. Once again, if people are public servants, they have to do something wrong. It's not enough that someone's unhappy with them. And here is the derogation from this rule, because that's why we're also writing on, "unless this law is made otherwise". That's what it is. And I agree with that, and here, I'm going to say, you can't lie. But I think it is right that it is as it is written here and as proposed, even because of what I have told you. Someone can't be convicted of this right now. It seems unfair to me to actually rape the President to have to work with someone for one term, even though they will be difficult to go together. That's one. Secondly, it seems to me that if we leave the president, for the first time, if you take what it's been like so far. So far, there have been some of those who have been officers. And really only for such important areas, for example, for the issue of security. Because, after all, someone who is an artist and has no idea about security issues can come to the president of the country. And now, if we hang a counselor there, including a consultant, he's literally naked and barefoot. However, I do not think that we should play games with the President of the State in this way. So I think this fear, what will be the pay, what will be - is easy. Someone who sees in every damn thing can see something like that. But once again, I warn you, after all, and this also Dr. Brejc must admit that in the law on the public sector wage system, we have written down that we will be taking a decision in this national council where we will rank all these officials, one and another, whatever we already have, and then we will also determine where they will be placed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Next order of business. First of all, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Barovic, Mr Drobnic, Mr Brejc. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues. Man looks and wonders what we got on the table, what's possible about some probably presidential [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] One way or another, interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which has not been possible so far. [[...]] We are immediately seeing articles such as Article 9 and Article 8. In view of what we read here, this is a change in the constitution, a change in the political system. This is implicitly introduced into our presidential system. At the order of the President of the Republic, the advisers from the Cabinet of the President of the Republic will be appointed to serve as officials by the ministries. Sorry, this is a change in the constitutional system in the Republic of Slovenia. And you agree that it's already been changed. Today, it is obvious that something has happened at the speed of one thing on the basis of an order that you blindly follow and are doing a coup in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. I would just like to say again, clearly and loudly, after everything we've really examined right now. The proposed amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia introduces a solution to the draft law, which we rejected on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service before the election of the president of the country. Now, on this amended proposal, we are deleting the solution that we have adopted because the President has changed. I just want to say that we're back to where we were. I don't know why we're doing this. This is not clear to me, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Obviously, it will have to tell us more that we don't understand these things. This is how anarchy is introduced, as a way, I already said yesterday, a kind of thinking of LDS, what life is, anarchy, chaos. The Presidential authority is that, in its own opinion, the arrangements applicable to all public servants are overturned. It is precisely the explanation that shows that the law summarizes an arrangement that has been in force for ten years, a vassal that has been introduced in this way. This vassality is supposed to continue. You're talking about state officials being the president of the state, Mr Lavrinc, some kind of ministers. Please! In addition to the fact that in our country, our government has the highest number of ministers, if we compare systems in European countries, you will somehow introduce ministers to the President of the country. Please! You've lost every sense of reality. Double systems are in place. I don't know where this will stop, where the President of the Republic will then be confined at all. He'll put his own vases on. We already have ministers in the government, and we now have ministers and a small country, and a number of ministers and officials. And it doesn't have a logical connection. I don't know why we passed the Civil Service Act. Obviously I will have to then, I suggest, every time you adopt an amendment or a law or a provision, the law applies unless the LDS says otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Brace, then Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much. However, I would like to conclude that there is also a considerable misunderstanding of things. I am afraid that I must say that this also applies to the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee. In fact, the argument that the President of the Republic cannot simply replace is the same for the Prime Minister and the Ministers and so on. This is basically a misunderstanding of the system of public servants. This proves that in fact, I'm sorry, because I have to say this, you don't understand what a system of public servants means. We can't set up a system, then the next day make some exceptions that don't have any basis. Reasons for change are needed to deviate from systemic solutions. And what is proposed today is without arguments, the creation of a new category of public servants who will have a special status. This is said to be essentially public servants actually going to be officials. And when Mr Lavrinc says, "If you do, because the law on salaries, this, and the third and the fourth prove again, "I'm sorry, it doesn't seem to have a clue." The Wages Act cuts the categorisation of everyone in this country who receives money from the budget. So also the officials and the advisors. The moment someone's in charge, he's taller than someone who's not an officer. Please take a look at this and you will see that classification among the officials is in itself progressing even in wages. But if that's not the case, then why are you fighting so hard to do it? So I say again - this amendment is not in line with the system of public servants, it is a derogation from the reform of the Slovenian public administration. We won't support him, but you do what you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Yeah, it's Dr. Brace's resignation, and I never said it wasn't. That is why it specifically states that this is a waiver or, unless otherwise provided in this law. That's the first one. The second thing I would like to say is a second reading, and the third one will not be available until January. Don't worry about someone trying to hide under a desk or under a rug. And until then, as far as my colleague Barovic's comments are concerned, it will also be time for us to obtain the opinion of the legislature of this National Assembly. Mr. Petty Officer, I'd like to tell you this. So much malicious interpretation of my words, but not for a long time. I used the comparison that was actually offered to me in Dr. Brejc's discussion. I compared it. I never said that the president would have the ministers and all that nonsense you attributed to me. As to how much I know about the wage system in the public sector and Dr. Brace's next. That's what I said. I don't know why you don't want to listen to what I'm saying and argue with the thesis that I didn't say. This National Assembly will adopt a decree to rank all officials in this country. This will also set their wages. That's all I said, and then I said, we're also going to say where they're going to feed these officials, as we're going to say about all the other officials in the country. That's all that was said on my part. I ask you whether you listen and be at least a little benevolent, and don't waste your time with controversy against my words that I haven't spoken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I therefore conclude the debate on Article 8 and the amended LDS amendment to this Article. I am putting into discussion Article 9 and the amended amendment of the LDS Group to this Article. Since the debate was held at the time of Article 8, no one wants to discuss it. So I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the consideration and debate on Article 21 and on the two amendments to this Article. Now we're back to reviewing the amendments. There are amendments from the LDS Club and the SDS Group of Members. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 22 and the two amendments to this Article, namely the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the DeSUS Group of Members. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Lavrinz, please, then, Mr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u82	Yes, I will support the amendment of the DeSUS Group, by just now predicting that in the LDS Group for third reading, we will try to prepare one such as to say that the writing should contain all these things, that is, what is the desire or intention of this amendment. That is to say, that you are rating or so to say, the conditions for acting as former president of the country to be limited in some way. Otherwise, of course, what has been warned even at the time of the debate is that we will have a number of such former presidents and some such offices, so I think this is really an exaggeration for a country like Slovenia. However, if this is related to a mandate or five years, not more than five years, as DeSUS suggests here, of course, there is no such fear. Because the office will be empty again and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u84	We told our first reading about the law and expected the government to draw up a law that corresponds to our abilities, as well as, of course, a practice that is decent in a country such as Slovenia. Then came a series of different views on this. Liberal democracy has tabled a series of amendments, which it has also managed to bring through the process. So now we have one such mix of different solutions, which means some mitigation of what happened before, but I still think it's an exaggeration when we're talking about presidents' ratings. I think that the State has certain obligations towards each President of the Republic, the respect that it must ensure that, for the rest of its life, it performs this function, as we call it, the former or former President of the State. There's no doubt about that. That's what every president of the country deserves. Of course, as it is written, it is now a collective, I don't know what kind of compromises. The matter is very bad, and I am actually very disappointed about this law, especially because I felt that there was some belief in the National Assembly that this law could be regulated more appropriately than it is now. In this way, we now have in particular two amendments to Article 22, one is the amendment of the Socialist Group of Members, and the other is DeSUS, of course, which are somewhat restrictive in some respects. Ours speaks in particular of this institute of protocol events, which is very wide and can, of course, be used, I think, not as it should be. By also taking into account what was said in the debate, but most of all for the time he served as President. Thus, we have had our amendment before, and it has been an experience in fact, ours was more favourable then to the former President of the country than it is now, but given the general mood we thought we would try to form such an amendment that would have support, because it makes no sense to write one that would not have support. We were just trying to follow these ideas. When an amendment was made by DeSUS, which at one point, as you can see, limits these ratings of the President of the State, I don't know what to say about this amendment. They'll be defending him themselves. The third thing that I am now interested in, and I hope that I have just heard from President Lavrinc, is that the Liberal Democracy intends, in one way or another, to use his term, to drink out the amendments and to embrace all that would prove essential in the debate. I think I've become a great optimist tonight. I'm glad it does. First of all, I'd like to achieve this so that we don't think it's some kind of rematch. After all, there was a little bit of a shortage, and we'd have a president. But the fact is, we have to be realistic and try to find one measure here. One good taste, one would say, we have to show these things. I appeal to you who decide in this country all things to show whether you have good taste or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues! I'm going to talk about our amendment under number two to number twenty-two. In our Group of Members, we feel and appreciate the work of the President of the country, including his possible ones, and mainly the practical obligations after the end of the mandate. However, it does not matter whether a person has performed this function for five years in a given mandate under the law, and someone has performed this function for a shorter period of time, so that these two will be completely equal at a time when they will no longer be actively performing this function. Therefore, we believe that we have written down on a reasonable basis only for the time it takes to perform this function. However, I do not mean theoretically, but it can be quite practical that, after a certain term of five years, this could happen if we did not limit it to five years in order to have at least two or three former presidents. I also look from the point of view who would then be invited to a place and, of course, also to the financial consequences. For this reason, we believe in our Group that it is justified, for the first time, to limit to how long someone has served as the President of the country, but not more than five years. I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that you will understand and support this amendment when we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] That is why I conclude the debate. We will vote on the amendments in the framework of the vote today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions today, so I invite Members and Members to the Chamber because we are moving to a decision. First item 2 of the agenda. Since no amendments have been tabled to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act concerning the Restriction on the Use of Tobacco Products, the assembly on this item will not vote in the second reading and will hold the third hearing tomorrow, 18.12.2002, at the close of the meeting. In addition to the 3rd paragraph of the draft law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations under the loan contract with the bank Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau, no amendments of EUR 50 million have been tabled and there will also be no vote on this point by the assembly. The third hearing will also be held tomorrow, 18.12.2002, at the close of the meeting. We will do the same with Point 4 because there have been no amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act, and we will have a third hearing tomorrow, 18.12.2002, at the conclusion of the meeting. We're moving on to break five. At the end of the day - with a second defensive proposal for a law on the supplementation of housing law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the law on the amendment of the housing law, the second reading, is not suitable for further consideration." We will vote on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 59 of us present. 46 votes against 9. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with break six. On the other hand, the proposal for a bill to provide conditions for the President of the Republic's function. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will first decide on the amended amendment of the LDS Club to Article 8. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 30 votes against 22. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the amended amendment to Article 8 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amended amendment of the LDS Club to Article 9. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 30 votes against 22. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 21. We're voting. There are 62 of us in attendance, 42 votes against 16. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 21. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a vote on the two amendments to Article 22. We will first vote on the amendment of the SDS Group with a footnote, if the amendment is adopted, the next amendment, which is proposed by the DeSUS Group of Members, becomes irrelevant. We are therefore voting first on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 23 votes against 38. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted, so we are moving on to the vote on the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 48 votes against 12. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. Since, in the second reading, amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended bill, namely 30 articles, the law has 30 articles, the third reading of the bill will be carried out at the next meeting, and I propose to the assembly, on the basis of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, that the following decision be adopted: Proposal for a Third Review Act is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 44 votes against 10. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. At the same time, I am adjourning the 21st session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all very much. Good night.
