ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I inform you that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings as follows: Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Bogdan Barovic, Samo Bevk from 12.00 p.m. onwards, Janez Cimperman, Vojko Čeligoj, Marko Diaci until 18.00 p.m., Feri Horvat, Miran Jerič from 13.00 p.m. onwards, Jelko Kacin, Franc Kangler, Jožef Kavtičnik from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., Milan Kopushar from 2 p.m., Yuri Malovra, Franz Pukšič from 1 p.m., Stanislava Stopar from 16.00 p.m. on, Franc Sušnik from 16.00 p.m. on, Jožef Špindler, Jože Tanko from 16.00 p.m and mag. Andrej Vizjak. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposed law on changes and additions to the law on victims of military violence. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representatives of the government very much, and at the same time I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation; that is five minutes, mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 50 of the Constitution, the Slovenian State devotes special care and protection to victims of war violence. To this end, a law on victims of war violence was passed in autumn 1995. The basic concept of the law was to recognise the status and rights under this law to persons who have spent at least three months in situations of violence by the occupying party and his associates. The status of victims of war violence under this law also has a child who has lost one of the parents because of the violence of the invaders or under the circumstances of war violence under this law. They also established the status of the victim of war violence, including those who fled from exile. By 19.6.1999, the status of the victim of war could also have been obtained by civilians with disabilities of war, without, however, fulfilling the conditions under this law until 15.5.1945. To this day, some 56,000 people have been granted status under this law. In almost seven years of implementation, the law has been supplemented and amended six times, five times on the initiative of Members and once on the initiative of the Government associated with the decision of the Constitutional Court. This fact is proof that the law did not initially cover all the relatively affected victims of war violence, and it has been shown that there are still categories that, according to the Government, deserve to be incorporated into the law that would remain unaltered and incomplete. In view of what has been said and on the basis of a number of initiatives, the Government has prepared changes and amendments to the law in the procedure. In this way, if adopted, the status of the victim of war violence could also be enforced: prisoners of war taken to internment between 6th and 17th April 1941 as members of the former army of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. It is also expected that those civilian persons with disabilities of war who did not enforce the status of the victim of war violence until 19.6.1999 will be able to enforce this status only on the basis of the status under the law on disabled persons of war. The status of the victim of war violence would finally be enforced by children who died in foreign and foreign situations of war violence, although after 15.5. while waiting for transport or on their way home, but before returning to their homeland. Even though children rarely fell soldiers at the time of the attack on Yugoslavia between 6.4 and 17.4.1945. The Government could not support some other amendments and additions in the context of the second reading, since they would have hesitated at the outset of that intention of the law, and one proposal would have introduced even new differences and uncertainties in the application of the provisions relating to the recognition of working age or the application for a recalculation of pension. The Government is convinced that this amendment and supplementation will finally cover all major groups of relatively affected victims of war violence, while taking into account the non-compliance of individual provisions of war laws in the treatment or rights of relatives of deceased, killed or fallen persons treated differently under these laws, in circumstances of war violence. The Government therefore proposes that the National Assembly adopt a complementary proposal for legislation, together with amendments to the Home Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask President Brenčič to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, the Committee considered the draft law at its 25th regular meeting, on 16.11. In its consideration of this proposal, it has also drawn, of course, on the opinion of the legislative and legal service which has examined the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. In its opinion, it made specific comments on text 1. Articles 2 and 3 of the draft law since it considers that the text of the provisions should be clarified in a normative manner. It also notes that the text of the proposed or proposed amendment to article 5 on the law on victims of war violence leaves the category of military war disabled, which the applicant did not further explain in the explanation. The amendment was tabled by the MEP mags. Mr Janez Drobnič to Article 1 and for the new Article 2nd, and Mr Davorin Terčon to Article 2. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee's amendments were also drafted, with which the Government agreed in principle. All she had was the thought that she would try, of course, to obtain agreement to supplement Article 8, paragraph 2, of the amendment to the Committee as proposed, concerning the status of victims of war violence, which would also go to a child whose parent was killed as a member of the former Yugoslav army in the war from 6.4.1941 to 17.4.1941. In the context of the debate on Article 1 of the draft law, a number of questions were raised by the representative of the proposer, to whom he answered adequately and satisfactorily. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the following amendments were tabled and adopted: no amendment has been adopted. Janez Drobnič to Article 1 and not an amendment to Article 2(2) of the same proposal, because he was not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and also became irrelevant. He also became irrelevant after the adoption of the amendment of the committee by his colleague Davorin Terchón. The Health Committee has adopted the following amendments, with which it has also remedied or remedied those shortcomings in the law specifically pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, namely the amendment to Article 1, Amendments to Articles 2 and 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also voted on all the articles and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. He's got the word "magic" first. Janez Drobnič, Nova Slovenija. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u6	Nice greetings to all present! Opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the Victims Act, changes to the law of war violence. Since we have not yet achieved international standards for the regulation of war victims in Slovenia, there is a constant need to harmonise the law on victims of war violence and other war laws. There are always new changes that make little difference to the real improvement because the design of the law is put on the wrong footing. The last amendment to the law drafted by the Government will, in one part, deepen the inequality between those who have been entitled to the same legal situation, in our case, children who have become victims of war. Unfortunately, the government's bill recognises the rights only to those children who have suffered the violence of the invader and were their parents in the NOB at the same time. If this latter condition is not met, they will not be entitled to these rights and nothing can be enforced by those children who were victims of other war formations and also of communist violence in the territory of Slovenia. This way of regulating will further increase ideological differences between people, although children have no involvement in this ideology and will continue to be hostages of ideological matrixes. New Slovenia cannot support such contentious matters. Tell me why you would distinguish between the situation of children who have become victims of violence on one side or the other. What do children have to do with this? Why should we tell them apart? Why Continue Ideological Apartheid? In New Slovenia, we agree with the additions that regulate certain categories of military war disabled people, but we have tabled an amendment which would grant equal rights to all child victims, regardless of which war formation caused their woes. Children cannot be discriminated against for this reason. Even more. Indemnifications for victims of military violence of the revolutionaries should cover the legal successor of this military formation, that is Slovenia. While compensation should be imposed for victims of aggression by other formations, Germany, Italy and Hungary from those countries from which these formations came. It is the duty of the State of Slovenia to assist them in proceedings before the competent institutions of other countries. Similar arrangements exist in other countries. In New Slovenia, we are not in favour of proposals that increase inequalities and do not want to create a discriminatory country based on ideology. The applicant himself claims that the law has been amended six times since 1996 and notes that it is still discriminatory - we can look at this on page 10, paragraph 3. Even though it has been changed six times, it is still discriminatory; that is to say, like the messer who says, I have already cut the board three times, and it is still too short. So why continue, however, why continue this ideological apartheid in Slovenia? Do we still not have the strength to overcome the ideological matrix in which some are pushing us? The distribution of Slovenians according to the ideological pattern will therefore continue. Ladies and gentlemen, time has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is given by Danica Simšič, and the United List will be replaced by Mrs Črnugelj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Hello, well-respected colleagues and colleagues and the Ministry! In the United List and its Group of Members, we have constantly sought to define, by means of our provisions, who is entitled to the status of the victim of war violence and thus to the individual rights arising from it. At the same time, we advocated his changes and additions whenever we assessed that we would benefit victims of war violence. The amendments and additions to the basic law we are legislating by this proposal are the seventh in line since the law on victims of war violence entered into force. We also fully support these in the United Social Democrats Group, as always, when it comes to the rights of persons or groups of people who have been overlooked or forgotten for any reason in the formation of the law or in its subsequent additions, when it comes to victims of violence and forced action by the occupier, the aggressor or his associates. We have already stressed this in the debate on the working body of the mother. In doing so, we agreed with the legislative and legal services' comments that amendments and additions still need to be made substantively and nomotechically. The complementary amendment and the amendment of the law contains and takes into account the debate so far on this subject and is fully acceptable to us. We agree that the status of the victim of war violence is also recognised to the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who, as a member of the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia, former Yugoslav Army in connection with this war from 6.4. to the surrender of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia 17.4.1941, has been identified as a prisoner of war. We have already submitted such a proposal in the UK Group in one of the previous amendments to the law, but unfortunately there was no support in the government at the time, because it was felt that prisoners of war were protected after the war veterans' law. We also believe that the status of war violence can be enforced by a child whose parent was killed as a member of the former Yugoslav army or later experienced acts and circumstances that fall within the definition of status under the law on victims of war violence. We also strongly support the precision of military and war invalids who, under the terms of the law, are victims of war violence and civilians of war victims of war violence on the basis of recognised invalidity status under special law. Questions are likely to be raised regarding this law. For us, there remains an open case concerning the status of the fugitive as a result of the destruction of the residence or apartment. This violence is now defined by law so that it must have been carried out before 15.2.1945. There are, however, examples from Adlesichev, where they warn that they have been without their home or have remained for much longer than three months, but after May 15, 1945, their households were destroyed in the German offensive on March 22, 1945. The Joint List or the United Nations Group insists on the basic starting points of the law, which are very clearly defined in Article 2(1); that the basis for the law is the violence of the German, Italian, Hungarian occupation forces for political, national, racial or religious reasons, and supports all further efforts by the Government to do so also in the regulations of law. The UK Group supports the law with these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by Mr Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, the LDS Group will support this amendment of the law. As we know, this is already the seventh, if I am not mistaken, and I expect that there will be more, especially if we take into account the two other amendments that have been made by our colleagues and have not yet been adopted, but if we also take into account the law that Mr Pukšič has given us, I mean the novel that Mr Pukšič has given us, and we have rejected it. Why is this happening? I think it's basically wrong: if, at the beginning of the marriage, for the first time, there were probably all these things that are happening today, it probably wouldn't have been possible to recast each year - twice. To that end, this novel is also because, for example, the proposer listed these changes in Article 4, then we have found that it is unclear there to deal with pension problems, to draw up children, beneficiaries and so on. So, I also have a certain criticism that a proponent should look after such things. Well, the changes this novel brings, we'll support it, like I said. First of all, I like to save civil war disabled people who don't have to run for papers now, but I am there, but their status is already classified in this category. However, as far as these two amendments, which were not adopted, have also become irrelevant, because we deleted Article 2, the amendment of Mr Tercheon is irrelevant, because we have no place to place it, but it must be taken into account, because we will also have to take it into account, because we have the same problems elsewhere, if we are talking about Yugoslav problems, for Italian prisoners, who could also be victims of war violence. As far as Petty Officer's amendment is concerned, all I think is that he's in conflict with Article 1 of the basic law. That's definitely not how we're gonna support him. However, I would ask that the applicants pay close attention to where these things are classified, where they can be done, so that the end of this law can be reached once, because otherwise we will continue and change and amend and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Brenčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we find that the basic or fundamental law on victims of war violence is made up of a story that is eternally and never twisted; a story that in the first place goes beyond the real financial capacity of this country; a story that breeds new doubts or new arguments for each novel when it comes. With a little thought in mind, when we debated on the Committee on Economic Affairs how the financial framework for some minimum aid from the State to economic operators should be for them to survive, and that now the active inhabitants will maintain their jobs and material opportunities for their family, and so on, I wonder whether we are really called upon to follow the content of this law, as we follow it from the novel to the novel. I don't think so. In view of all the facts, the Group will support this law as a minimum in the recognition or extension of the rights of beneficiaries. However, we expect that the novels for the novel will slowly stop and leave to those citizens who choose resources in the state budget as public funds so that they can practically enrich the material base of the grandchildren of the victims, so that we can slowly end this. Certainly this law, as some extreme possibility, the extreme scope of the system as such, will be supported. But we think we need to get this over with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič, I do not see the position of the SNS Group of Members here, so I am concluding the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the bill will be carried out on Friday, 29.11.2002. This concludes this agenda item. The 12th item is due at 10.40 a.m. and I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly. We'll resume at 10.40 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u14	We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S ON Secondly, a proposal for a law on amendments to the Rail Traffic Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I salute the Minister very much. I give my word to a government representative. Mr. Minister, will you further explain the bill? Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u15	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act, we propose first of all a separation of public rail infrastructure management and the implementation of public economic services. To this end, a Railway Agency shall be established, on behalf of and at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to ensure the rational use of budgetary resources. The Agency, as an expert body, will determine the extent of the parts of the infrastructure manager on the basis of the analysis of the state of existing infrastructure and on the basis of certain conditions and maintenance standards by contract. Ensuring a free approach to infrastructure will also make it possible for all carriers to provide such infrastructure and additional services as will be defined in the Network Programme. Otherwise, any deviation from network programmes will also be financially sanctioned. By demarcating responsibilities between the operator and the operator, as well as by strengthening control over the implementation of the works, rationalisation will be ensured, thereby ensuring better quality of railway infrastructure. The proposal specifies the delimitation of tasks and responsibilities between individual entities in the field of rail transport. In the field of rail transport, the Ministry of Transport is also responsible for all rail legislation as well as for the national rail infrastructure development programme. The Agency shall be in charge and responsible within the framework of the powers conferred by this Act, while all other tasks are the responsibilities and responsibilities of the Ministry of Transport. The law also introduces the transfer of management to an authorised railway infrastructure manager, that is to say Slovenian railways. The marketing of existing railway infrastructure is the responsibility of the infrastructure manager, who defines capacity on a specific network in the network programme as offers to carriers, at a certain price for this infrastructure, within a certain period of time. Of course, the use must be determined in accordance with national transport policy guidelines and take account of the use on competitive routes in neighbouring countries. In order for competitiveness to be possible, it will also be necessary to analyse the quality of competitive lines and gradually improve the quality of Slovenian railway infrastructure. This is the task of the national rail infrastructure development programme. With the proposed transformation of the rail transport system, Slovenian railways will also be forced to target the final user. Railways, as a carrier, are obliged to detect the needs of the inhabitants and, together with other carriers, to propose a harmonised timetable in road transport and to encourage passengers to use rail transport with additional services. This is also their basic mission as carrier and the country can only support such a mission by effective subsidisation. For example, subsidisation of combined tickets where a user with the same ticket could drive by train and continue his journey with, for example, a city bus and so on. The design of public passenger transport in the Republic of Slovenia will also share public interest services co-financed by the State or public interest at the national level, where the level of mobility of residents will be determined from a national perspective. However, since the period of regionalisation of Slovenia or the establishment of the provinces with its original revenues is approaching, it is of course necessary to allow individual regions or provinces to provide additional public passenger transport services for connections within the region or the province. Therefore, it is possible for local communities or regions or provinces to co-finance the services of carriers to an additional extent over those identified by the State interest. The objectives proposed by law are to transform the rail system into a modern economic system that will pursue both market interests in freight transport and the marketing of infrastructure as well as public economic services in the field of passenger transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Janz, to present the report of the Committee - five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you for your word. At its 34th meeting, on 7 and 14.11.2002, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Infrastructure and Environment held a second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on rail transport submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 3.12.2001. The National Assembly held a general debate on this law at its 18th session, on 25.9.2002, and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. A written opinion has already been given to the proposed law by the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly on 10.1.2002, as well as by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service drew particular attention to the legal and system-wide contention of the proposed solutions regarding the establishment of the Railway Agency, its tasks and funding. In doing so, she raised two questions: the issue of the attitude towards the Ministry and the attitude towards current operators, both transport services and public rail infrastructure management. On the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service on the inconsistencies and systemic inconsistencies of individual provisions, the Committee has drafted its amendments or amendments to the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 2, 5, 5, 8, 9, 11, 14, 19, 20, 24, 31 for the new 34a and 37th paragraphs, thereby partially summarizing the comments of the legislative and legal service in the coordination of the professional service and the drafters. The Committee also supported the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group by paragraphs 2, 9, 24, 27 for the new paragraphs 27a and 33, 34 and 36. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am concluding the proposal and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the bill will be carried out on Friday, 29.11.2002. I hereby end this agenda item and thank the Minister for his presence. Thank you very much. The 13th item of the agenda will continue at 10.50 a.m. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u19	We are moving on to the consideration of the Buildings Act. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government as an additional explanation of the law. The word will be taken over by the Magus. Janez Kopač, Minister of Environment, Space and Energy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. The National Assembly, with respect, held a general discussion of the bill at its 19th meeting on 24 October. Today, a month later, at the second hearing, and if you remember, in the general debate, when there were quite a few questions, I promised that we would answer all the questions and related opinions presented in this general debate in writing, and that we have done so extensively, so that we have forwarded these answers to all the parliamentary groups on 29 October. On the basis of the conclusions of the general hearing, you have tabled certain amendments by Members and Members or Members of the Group, which have been dealt with by their mother's working body and have also received them to a large extent, and some have partially changed at the meeting and adopted them as their own. It is precisely these things at the Committee's meeting, as amended by the Members of the proposed amendments, that have caused some minor inconsistencies that are being resolved, that I think with the five amendments proposed by the LDS Group now for second reading. I can say that, in all these five cases, technical or more technical editorial amendments and, of course, the government supports them. I don't think I need to reintroduce individual solutions, as they have, after all, been very detailed in this Chamber, as well as on the Infrastructure Committee. After all, the bill is now in the process, in various versions, for quite a year. Therefore, allow me to stress at the end that the purpose of the proposed law is to allow, with its help, investment intentions to be realized more quickly than ever before, and to allow investors, ultimately citizens and citizens, who face them on a daily basis, at least those who solve their housing problem, to make life easier. I propose that the amendments of the LDS Group, which are submitted to Articles 2, 34, 43, 55 and 58, be supported. We received a subsequent amendment to reduce the construction in our own direction from 250 to 160 square metres. To this amendment, which was subsequently adopted, the government did not define itself, but I was informed that this amendment had been withdrawn or that the withdrawal had been announced. Also allow me to express my position on the two amendments of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. This is an amendment to Articles 2 and 58. Article 2 proposes that the construction of toll stations or the installation of toll stations within regular works should not be allowed for public benefit in the maintenance of roads within the road body, but should only be allowed under a procedure requiring prior construction authorisation. We do not support this amendment, because I think it is necessary to understand the logic of the new law, which no longer knows the decision to notify works for simple objects, but only the location information, and, of course, for less demanding and demanding facilities only the building permit. In short, we do not support the amendments to Article 58 because it assumes that the facilities set out in the location plan should also be subject to specific construction of the affected area within the framework of the construction permit project, which we do not think is necessary and would constitute an additional bureaucratic obstacle, which does not really matter because of the logic of the matter. I therefore propose that you support the law, but not the five amendments of the LDS Group and the two amendments of the Socialist Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Branko Janca, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its meeting on 13.11, the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment considered a proposal for a law on the construction of buildings, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for a second reading. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Engineering of Slovenia and the Chamber of Engineering of Engineering of Slovenia, the main section of architects, urbanists and landscape architects also took part in the meeting of the committee, which also took account of some of the Committee's amendments. In addition to the amendments listed above, amendments were proposed from Elesa, Elektro Slovenije d.o.o. and Geoplina d.o.o. The Committee has received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in which it has drawn particular attention to the provisions of Article 2 relating to point 10.7.3 relating to the definition of maintenance works for public benefit, the consequences of which are to increase the capacity of the facility, its size or the implementation of the reconstruction, so that the proposed solution should be compared to the definition of the reconstruction of the facility under this proposal in point 7.2 in order to avoid ambiguity in the implementation of the law in practice. For all the works referred to in this point shall be carried out in accordance with Article 6 without any authorization or even no location information. The Legislative and Legal Service also recalls the provisions of Article 72 of the draft law, which provides that all parties may, after the award of decisions granting a building permit, in writing or orally waive the right to appeal or the right to raise an administrative dispute and that the decision becomes immediately binding. The amendments were tabled by the LDS, the United List and the Slovenian People's Party, by Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Ivan Mamić. The amendment to Articles 64 and 66 has also been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which have not been properly designed, so the Committee has taken them up and accepted them as its own. This has resulted in the adoption of a series of amendments to the three parliamentary groups, the LDS, the United Letters and the SLS, the amendments of Jožet Tanka to Articles 34, 79 and 205 and the amendments of Mr Ivan Mamić to Articles 60, 63, 64, 66, 148, 153, 157 and 184. The Committee itself adopted several amendments which were necessary for the consistency of the law, namely Articles 81, 160, 52, 57, 64, 66 and 233a. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you for the report. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.11.2002. Before that, I would like to point out that the parliamentary groups have announced time for discussion: LDS 45 minutes, SDS 35 minutes, SLS 5 minutes, Nova Slovenija 10 minutes, DeSUS 5 minutes, Slovenian National Party 10 minutes and government 15 minutes. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the LDS House of Members and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members to Article 2. Who wants a word on this? In a row, Dr. Brace, and then I'll try to write down everything we've seen with our hands up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The Liberal Democracy Group proposed an amendment to Article 2 of the Act to point 1.9.1 to include the toll stations in ancillary infrastructure facilities. As an explanation, it stated that it was a harmonisation amendment with the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which is not true, since the PSC does not refer to to to toll stations in its opinion. It's just, by the way. The classification of toll stations as auxiliary facilities, thus, of course, as simple objects, seems very controversial to me. Firstly, since the inclusion of toll stations between simple facilities or ancillary infrastructure facilities means that toll stations would no longer require a building permit or a location information. The government, as we have heard today, does not support our amendment, by which toll stations would be removed from this point of Article 2. Among other things, as we know, as we have read, toll stations are an integral part of the highway, or a fast road, whose route and other conditions for its installation in the area, is determined in close cooperation with the local community. The roads are indeed part of a highway or a fast road, but the amendment has a completely different purpose because it enables the construction, installation of additional toll stations which were not envisaged at the time of the adoption of the Regulation on the location plan for the construction of a certain motorway route. The fact that the construction of additional toll stations is envisaged is also based on the 2002 Annual Plan of Development and Maintenance of Motorways, which has already proved to be a dilemma with regard to the establishment of additional toll stations. The decree envisages the construction of nine toll stations due to upgrade the toll system, which are expected to start operating no later than 2005. Interestingly, it is said that already in this decree, I quote: "In 2002 the upper toll stations will have the basis for their installation in the room, taking into account the need to check the possibility of regulatory simplification of the procedure." The same is stated in the 2003 draft decree in point 1.3.6. I quote: "The construction of additional toll stations, which envisions the construction of three additional toll stations in 2003, namely Vogrsko, Ivančna Gorica and Vodice... and will be discussed at the December session of the National Assembly." As already demonstrated in the consideration of the decree on the annual development and maintenance of motorways for 2002 at the meeting of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee and also at the meeting of the National Assembly, none of the envisaged toll stations was provided for in the Regulation on the locality plan for each part of the motorway or the implementing spatial acts. Allowing the installation of additional toll stations without location information and without a building permit would mean that the inclusion of toll stations in implementing spatial acts would not occur at all. Consequently, the local community involved in the adoption of implementing spatial acts does not have any influence. Dars is going to be able to set up toll stations where he's going to go, where he's going to find out it's good for him. At the same time, he is not interested in the local community. It is interesting that the local community participated in the establishment of spatial regulatory plans when it came to motorways, gave consent, believed the word, and now the local community is playing. Well, a good example of such additional construction of toll stations is the case of the section of Blagovica-Sentjakob, where the construction of three toll stations, Krtina, Lukovica and Blagovica is envisaged, although it was then said that the toll stations would not be there, like in Celje, for example. A similar arrangement, as in Celje, would also be provided for here, in this case; well, now, of course, things are different. All that I quote and say here shows that despite a comprehensive study on the verification of the existing toll system, which was prepared on the basis of the decisions of the Committee of the National Infrastructure and Environment Council, which foresees four scenarios of the toll system, there is no comprehensive solution to to the collection of tolls. I am not in favour of large exceptions to to toll collection, I think that people have to pay tolls, but in accordance with the rules of the game, in accordance with the principle of equality and fairness. It is unacceptable, however, that we have the collection of tolls disorderly, that we have some confusing system, if I add to it the ABC system, which normally works poorly, then it is evident that we do not have a regulated collection of tolls in Slovenia. But to solve this confusion in this area now in the construction law, it's too much. In fact, to place a toll station among facilities which are, for example, auxiliary facilities, agricultural or amateur activities of individuals and their families, a fence that restricts the access of third parties to the yard or garden or other land, is called garden uta, beekeeper, maybe sand and similar things - this is now in the same category as the toll station. We all know that for the toll station, however, appropriate safety, technical measures must be taken to ensure that, for example, the toll station worker will be protected from the crash of the vehicle. Then environmental assessment - of course it is necessary, because vehicles stop there, they pollute the environment and so on. Thus, I am not opposed to developing a comprehensive toll collection system that is fair to all road users. But it seems unfair to me that in another way you are trying to bypass local interests now, to play the word you gave. Dars - well remember this - promised, for example, in this domed end, how and what will happen to to toll stations and then they said - of course not. Today is a completely different story. So you want to bring to the other door this space, just to say to the toll stations and actually play the local community and the people who trusted you at the time. This, I think, is outrageous; an outrageous leadership practice, that is, a government run by the Liberal Democracy, but what we want. And there's something else I'd like to say. At the same time, as I spoke last time about golf courses and these questions concerning simplification of procedures, I note in the Minister's reply where to place the golf course and so on that they remain among construction and engineering facilities. Thus, the toll station, which obviously has larger technical requirements and which, once again, has a significant impact on the direct environment, does not require anything practical: notification of works - and the end. For golf courses, which would mean substantial improvement of the offer, which would mean, say, keeping Lipice, the possibility of its development, and there we make impossible demands, even after the current arrangement, even though it was the last time to understand it as if it wasn't. That is why I would, if I could now, now that this second article is still under construction, say that I would suggest and hope that the option in the third reading will be to table an amendment to make some important moves here too. In order to make a small change in point 1.9 possible and add a new point 1.9.6 which would, say, read: "A unique object for sport and recreation, a playground for outdoor sports such as football, tennis, golf and the like." All I'm talking about now is what we're supposed to do after the third reading amendment is given. As we say, in the Social Democratic Party, we firmly believe that the great problems you have created in the area of toll collection cannot be solved by this law, so we have tabled an amendment so that the partial interests of the para-state institutions do not confuse ourselves and us by placing toll stations among dogs and gardeners. It just doesn't work. Solve the problems of toll stations in a different way, in a way that will be fair for all road users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs. Cveti Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! I would also like to talk about Article 2 of the Law and, of course, also about this topic that my colleague Brejc is talking about now, this is about putting toll stations among simple facilities as auxiliary facilities. I think that this is an extremely non-professional solution or proposal and a solution imposed by the known fact that in the coming years the motorways want to pass through all the arrangements and the already adopted local regulations on the construction of individual sections of the motorway to place new toll stations, and that is why they will be transported and breached all the principles of professionalism, with one and only objective - despite the influence of local communities and the general public at certain locations, to collect tolls at all costs. This will violate the principle of equality and justice, as only some environments will be affected by the chaotic tolling system. It will be forgotten of all the agreements and promises made by those responsible when adopting the local plans and the local regulations in order to obtain municipal consent for those acts. No studies and analyses on traffic flows after the construction of the toll station and also no studies on the environmental impact of such a facility will be carried out at the time of the installation of the toll stations. Of course, because of this shamefully imposed solution, experts will be able to resist their view of the earth. Travelling stations certainly cannot be classified as simple auxiliary facilities for which no specific static or construction or technical verification is necessary. We have classified the road stations with this, as has already been said, by the side of the dogs' huts, garden sheds, storage sheds, garage roofs and fences around the houses. According to many experts I have spoken to these days, such facilities are among very difficult objects rather than among simple ones for which no permission is required. The size of the toll stations may be significantly higher than that of the apartment house. And once again, I stress that the bill does not say that it is an additional, complementary, auxiliary toll station, but is only a dictatorship of the "road station". This means that any toll station will be built anywhere in Slovenia within the toll system. In addition, this is a desire for these five, which we also know from the complementary programme of the highway program, but can also be frontal, which I think is really far from any ancillary facility. Above all, these facilities are very high and, as I see them, with a very difficult design and extremely complex protection complexity, not least in these facilities people work continuously and against these objects can wood trucks, they also cause major accidents if the facilities are not protected. In the future, we will also be able to build toll stations in Slovenia without worrying about their appearance, without any public competitions, with particular emphasis being placed on the fact that this is an object that has value and is actually taken by most people who travel through Slovenia as a reference facility. No static and structural calculations and so on. No one will be responsible for the chaoticity of traffic, which will uncontrolledly evade toll payments and recharge local and regional roads through settlements, thereby further reducing road traffic safety. People will have to stop and wait nine times on less than 300 km of road from Šentilj to the Slovenian coast in a column at the main toll stations, because it will now be possible to have complete freedom to house new toll stations - nowhere does it say that there will be no more than now planned. So an average of 30 km will have to be stopped at the main toll station. Did anyone wonder if this might have any effect on environmental pollution? What's the loss of travel time? How to prevent the escape of transit traffic from the highway and the loss of these revenues? No! No! We continue to accept partial and reckless and unprofessional solutions that only increase chaos, dissatisfaction of people and further endanger traffic security. I therefore strongly oppose this decision alone. The Slovenian toll system must be made fair and equitable for all participants. This is what the Minister of Transport has always talked about, but it seems to me that we are more than just and equal every day. So you need to load up fairly everything, given the miles you've taken, or no one. And I say again, it's not the egoism of individual environments that highways have, and now they wouldn't pay the toll. In our environment, people are willing to pay the toll. They are not prepared to swallow the foolish, unprofessional, chaotic and anarchistic solutions produced by this road lobby from day to day in Slovenia. The system must be rational and friendly, with as little negative environmental impact as possible, and participants must also move quickly. That's why we're building highways, not every 30 kilometers we're standing in the front of a toll station and in a one-hour column. And from year to year, we are adopting new and new solutions, with one worse than the other, and we now have everything that is possible, from closed, frontal, open, and I do not know what systems all of them are, but within this, also regions that do not pay any tolls and can fairly escape it. But to the responsible and professional minds and ideas do not run out, so chaos is greater and bigger every day, according to my estimation. The placement of new toll stations without any consent and respect for their expertise in construction and installation will, in my opinion, only increase them.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you. The word is Franz Lenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The Construction Act was enacted or adopted in 1984 and was substantially amended by amendments and additions in 1996. However, the law was created under the conditions of social property and during the period of social planning, and it still contains some solutions in the spirit of the previous system, which are incompatible with the applicable legal regime in our country. By abolishing social property, the economic viability of the investment has become a matter and an investor's responsibility and therefore there is no longer a basis in the technical part for assessing the social and economic viability of the investment. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners accepts all the reasons for the adoption of the new Construction Act, and in particular we support those objectives and fundamental solutions that simplify the procedures from design to building permit, thus reducing the time taken to achieve the investor's decision in space as quickly as possible. In spite of the previous findings, however, we in our parliamentary group have estimated that the proposed law is oversimplifying certain solutions. Here we think mainly of Article 2 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u29	Comrade Lenko, yes, we're at Article 2, so focus on him.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u30	Here we refer mainly to Article 2, which extends the concept of maintenance across all reasonable borders. We have also presented these concerns to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. The correctness of our position is also expressed in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which expressly points out the non-compliance of Article 2. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that a compromise will be reached with the adoption of the amendment to the complementary proposal for a building law tabled by the Liberal Democracy Group. Our Group will therefore support the proposal of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee and the amendments of the LDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you. I just want to remind you that we are dealing with articles and amendments and we are trying to discuss the articles and amendments to this article. I now give the floor to Davorin Tarchoon for discussion. We're still with Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would say, however, that in the undertones there is some fear, who will pay the toll and who will not, and some eagerness to make certain areas, some users who live there, but remain bebenified compared to others and do not pay the tolls. At the outset, I would also say that the amendment, where a building permit for toll stations would not be necessary, also seems to be non-systematic. And this kind of thing would have to be handled differently. However, it is an attempt to eliminate some unsustainable situation we have in the area of toll collection. In the area of toll collection we have in Slovenia, both over the thumb, one or four systems. We have a closed system, an open system, a combined system, a non-contained system, and an ABC system. This is completely, totally unacceptable, given the size and density of the population of Slovenia. However, it is the result of a decision in the past, when we started building a closed toll system and we had it in practice, and there was a decision, obviously under very lobbyistic influences, which in one part already existing closed toll system collapsed and set up an open toll system. In this national assembly, the work of his bodies has already been very much said on this issue. The general conclusion is that this situation is unsustainable and that it is necessary to simplify and, in particular, simplify the toll collection system. Unfortunately, it has been many years since these decisions were made, and of course something has not happened. And I wonder why it didn't happen. And I find it hard to do something. If we wanted to simplify my system, we should also, in accordance with European definitions, assign a fair toll collection system. And this is a closed toll collection system that we had at the beginning, of course to a smaller extent, because we had less highways, we already had. But if we want to build this, of course we're going to run into a very big problem. We will have to re-break the toll stations of the open toll system and we will have to make new to the closed toll system. More. We're gonna have to build new superstructures, undercarriages, exports. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, these are huge billions. Clearly, it is not yet ready to fall into the ashes and say that we have resolved here and that we would make some principled decision to go to the construction of a single toll system. That is why, of course, we are looking for shorter paths. And this amendment is one of the shorter ways. On the other hand, it is true that we have entire areas in Slovenia where users can travel on highways or parts of highways without paying the toll. We have more conventional exports and imports when the toll is not collected. That's the way it is, after all, I have to say, non-systemic. However, it is clear to everyone that something needs to be done in order to have a fairer system for users. And since this cannot be done quickly and without great costs, something has to be done. I would therefore suggest that a solution be sought for third reading in the transitional provisions of the law governing a transitional period. And we need a necessary transitional period to reach a closed toll system in order to define, in these transitional provisions, the most urgent toll station, which must be built after the programme in a short time, and to finally come to a final decision and build a closed toll system, which we know will have to build sooner or later. I think it is still necessary to support the LDS amendment in the second reading, so that we can come up with a solution that I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you. I've got three other debaters on file. First Ivan Bozič, then Irma Pavlinič and Ivan Kebrich. Please, my friend Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I'm not going to change my mind about the bill myself. At first reading, in general reading, we said, on behalf of our Group of Members, that we support the law that we are very pleased with the good Article 2 and the large number of articles of the transitional provisions. With regard to these two amendments to Article 2, I must say that I will not support any of them myself. First of all, I think that the amendment for 1.9.1 has come to the attention of those who should pay toll after the construction of the toll stations. What about the ones we pay when we go west every day since the highway was built? Unless we're driving across Bohinj and the Sorish Valley, through Škofja Loko, or if I'm going over Vrhnika and Logatec to Tolmin. Well, that's not the same. You all refer to the toll station as a "lope and beekeeper", but you do not read all the text, the auxiliary infrastructure facility, which is part of the economic public infrastructure, including toll stations. I don't know why the toll station is wrong here. With regard to the collection of tolls, which will be the subject of another marriage, I can say that we have been arguing over tolls for six years. We all pay the toll when we register vehicles, or we buy stickers for one year. But what we have today is really similar to what Mr. Žigon said. Five types of road tolls and most enjoyed by those who have collapsed the toll system years ago and are now driving without tolls. Why do we pay others? Just take the road to Nova Gorica and back, and you'll see that there's nothing you can do on the highway without paying the toll. To the LDS amendment to point 10.7.3, I must say that I will not support this either, because in my current service, before I entered politics, we have maintained many public facilities that could be adapted and reconstructed. And why delete it all of a sudden? For God's sake, there were a lot of buildings built in Primorsk during the Italian occupation, and now they should be demolished, or the buildings of the former Yugoslav army at the state border. I don't know why we should go into this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. First, it's Dr. Brace's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u36	I'm replicating Mr. Christmas. He said something like this: the ones who don't pay the tolls came in. Of course that's not true. That's a "boss," Mr. Christmas. I came by myself because I don't think it's possible to solve the toll failure with inadequate formulation or definition in the building law. I claim that the toll station is a demanding facility and nothing else. And I specifically said, we're in favour of regulating the toll collection system. And there was another inaccuracies in your speech. If we go to Gorica or to Tolmin, say, you too, Mr Christmas, do not pay the toll because you go to Ogreske out; unless you drive to Tolmin across the toll station and through Nova Gorica, which I doubt.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The fundamental objective of adopting the law of both the government and, in particular, the pressure of us Members was to deregulation of administrative procedures, which naturally implies in the individual articles which contain this deregulation, or by listing objects or by simplifying procedures. The policy of the members of the European Union was also a guide to ensure that as few facilities as possible are subject to national regulation, of course in the light of the fact that individual institutions, including public functions, can be entrusted with construction without State regulation. Allow me to present arrangements in support of the rejection of this amendment in Denmark, where the definition of auxiliary facilities is directly linked to the question of toll station yes or not as an auxiliary infrastructure that forms part of the economic public infrastructure: "Extremely it is not necessary to obtain a building permit for railway and road bridges and tunnels, electric water, public infrastructure facilities, public telephones, further for small lawns and fences up to a certain height, swimming pools, roof antennas and so on. The number of types of buildings for which no building permit is required shall be increased by adopting new regulations in this area." The wish of us who have participated in this law is that regulation in our country is also comparable to modern regulations in the Member States of the European Union and, of course, not only for our citizens, but also for the operators of works on economic public infrastructure. Partially reading the definition of auxiliary objects is not correct. There are also two types of facilities here, as Mr Bozič rightly said, which are objects for our own needs, which we have deregulated in such a way that only the location information and auxiliary infrastructure facilities, which form part of the economic public infrastructure, are needed. Just like in the modern world. It was undisputed, I think, also from the speeches of colleagues and colleagues, that the toll station is part of a highway body that is inseparably connected to it. It doesn't affect the area. This is the fact and the interpretation that, in fact, when considering whether a facility is placed together with the road by public infrastructure operators in a specific, special administrative procedure. That's the question. Not picking up the tolls, yes or no. But whether we place this facility together with the road in space and allow the operators of these works to do so without directing a special administrative procedure. The assessment of all of us who actually participated in this was that such an object is of such a nature. The government with professional services has also assessed that the toll station is an auxiliary facility and part of a highway body and does not deserve special administrative treatment, but is placed in a space along the highway. That is why I would like, if we are serious about deregulation of administrative procedures, then this is the solution that the government is proposing. In a direction like the basic complementary bill, we will achieve this objective, otherwise very difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you. Ivan Kebrich has the floor. I gave my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u40	Mr. Brace probably wanted a replica, so I showed him there. Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary with colleagues. We break the spears on this 2nd Article with two amendments that are diametrically opposite. Both of you want to save or not solve the toll question. The fact is that we need and support the basic law and it is high time that we get it to simplify certain procedures and, on the other hand, as I have mentioned many times before, I will also do so this time to prevent black construction, the reason which was sometimes mainly because it was very difficult to come or it was a long-term procedure to obtain a building permit. This also applies now to the toll stations referred to in Article 2 of these two amendments. The conviction is that the building - toll station is part of the highway. If there wasn't a highway, there wouldn't be a toll station, because I don't know who would be setting something up without a need. On the other hand, it's perfectly clear what's in the background. Local communities will act on whether or not they will give their consent to the location information. This will not only be judged from their spatial point of view, but mainly from an economic perspective. Are those citizens going to be "impaired" through this term, using this term to pay the toll because they are not paying it now, because the toll stations are not there and have the opportunity to drive off the highway and avoid paying the toll. I think that whatever we accept in this regard, it doesn't matter at all, it will be important how we save the tolls in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you. I'm giving the word to Jozet Auschwitz. I used to think that the replica was in the sense of correcting the statement, but I'm guessing from the content that it wasn't, so now I'm giving you my word, and then Dr. Brejc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Otherwise, I will be brief because it seems to me that we will spend most of our time on such a demanding law as the Construction of Buildings Act in Article 2. However, we will face a dilemma when we vote in particular on the amendment of the LDS Group of Members - or whether we take a bad solution to the law or leave the toll regime in Slovenia. This dilemma is ahead of us. Here we will probably have to decide a solution that will address some economic damage that is happening in Slovenia and perhaps leave things to be a little clearer and clean in the third reading. Although Mrs Irma Pavlinič has said some solutions in other European legislation, we are only on toll facilities with this amendment. It is true that we have an unsustainable situation in Slovenia, that it happens that someone can drive 70 kilometers along highways and pay nothing for the other to travel only 5 kilometers and pay 70 kilometers and more. And this is an unsustainable situation, which in the final stage affects both the creation of means for the implementation of the highway programme in the Republic of Slovenia and creates inequality, which is even in some way unconstitutional. Therefore, I say that we need to think carefully about this amendment, because the solution within this law is possible in this way, it would be cleaner, of course, to introduce certain provisions by amending the national programme for the construction of motorways, which would go beyond the difficulties in which we are. Before I make my decision on this amendment, I will think carefully about how and what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you, Comrade Azhish. I give the word again to Dr. Brajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I am pleased that in this debate, when it comes to the construction law, we now find that we are actually talking about tolls. This clearly gives rise to the true essence of this change. This is not about professional definitions. This is the predominance of the road lobby, which in the Liberal Democracy obviously has an excellent opportunity for its development, a real breeding ground for the execution of all possible lumbarries. The road lobby has caused the system we have, and the confusion we have, the government, Drnovsk's government, has succeeded or has served this road lobby nicely. That's not how it works. And now you will evaluate the law, which is well prepared in many aspects, because of one partial interest. I won't use harder words, but I'd love to. But that's not how it works. Mrs. Krebs spoke about the Danish case. Yeah, why don't you take a look at the neighbors in Italy, and you'll see that there's a building permit, or somewhere else. I don't think we can explain things with some small cases right now. And above all, you say, road stations are part of the highway. Of course they are. When the highway is designed, all the infrastructure associated with it is formed. So there's road stations, too. But the problem is when the project documentation is available, the road stations are not written. That's the problem. Why didn't you write them then? Because you wanted to gain the consent of the local communities. Once you have agreed, you are no longer cared about by the local communities. This is what liberal democracy does according to the rule. People, I'm sorry, one ugly expression, likes to bring around, or as we say, from home, "screw." But the people will still elect her. God help me. Go ahead. Just let him do it. Sooner or later, they'll figure it out, but it takes a lot of time. To go back. That is, if the toll station is part of the highway, then it has to be in the project. But if it's not in the project, it's not part of the highway. And now we can't turn things around because of this fact, and say, okay, we forgot to build a toll station, I don't know, one new to Postojna. For example, I'm making up an intentional Postojna, which is quite processed. The front toll station. And you will now say that the front toll station is an auxiliary facility, with 20 entrances and exits. Well, it's funny, it doesn't hold any professional judgment. In a normal country, political judgement is not sustainable either. So please, let's not mix the problems you've created with toll stations or toll collection with one law on building buildings, which is a good law. Do not solve any other problems with this law. I must also say when Mr Kebric says that both proposals are diametrically different and that they save toll stations. It's not true at all. Toll collection, sorry, that's what you said. We're not talking about toll collection. All we're saying is that the construction of a toll station between dog's weeds and garden weeds and bees and the like isn't working. That's not possible professionally. That's all we're saying. Nothing else. But I've pointed out many times today, we're all in the same position to collect the toll. Not that one's paying, but the other's not. And we don't agree with that. It is unacceptable that, I don't know, someone for a few kilometers, as Mr Ašič said before, would pay no tolls and no tolls for 70 kilometres. Yeah, but that's not working. It can't be. But apparently, it doesn't bother anyone. I would suggest, given our rules of procedure, that if this amendment of the Liberal Democracy is adopted today, then there is a possibility that something else can be done before the third hearing. That perhaps the proponents, in particular the government, will consider how to resolve the matter. If this amendment is not adopted, then this option is not procedural. This is the biggest problem in which we do not know how to deal with this amendment or this amendment, which is now in Article 2, which we do not support. I personally think that for professional reasons this is not part of this law. It just doesn't belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you. I now give the floor to Minister Kopač and then to Ivan Mamić and Tonet Anderlich. A replica, according to your statement, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Allow me to replicate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Brace put me up to this, but from my point of view. Mr Brejc, my statement was, of course, a reference to a country which has extremely liberal and countless buildings for which it does not require the construction of buildings. And I have, of course, followed the countries which, in fact, are more liberal in their efforts to deregulation as many interventions as possible. And everything mentioned in Denmark is far from recognized in our law as something that does not require a building permit. However, my question and my assessment were, in fact, only within the framework of: auxiliary public infrastructure facilities. Taking Denmark out of context was just an example that led us in the best possible approach to deregulation of legal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you. I now give the floor to Minister Kopach.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry I didn't call earlier to explain myself because I think a whole bunch of those words are actually coming out of a misunderstanding. See point 1.9.1., which includes "words including toll stations", is in the context of point 1.9., which refers to the definition of what simple objects are. A simple hug is a structurally less demanding object, which does not need a specific static and technical verification that is not intended to be intended for a stay and is not an environmental object. In theory, toll stations which are so large that they have an impact on the environment that require static and construction and technical verification are not automatically included in this indent. Fortunately for some, for others, but it is not possible to include them among, as you said, Mr. Brace, among bees and the like. It should be recognized that this law has been in operation for many years. Travelling stations will not forever be just as we know them today. There will also be toll stations that will allow for a telecommunications method of tolling. This is made for simple objects, including toll stations, which are really simple objects. This is not an attempt to avoid or, I will say, the application of the building law, which you, thank you, have assessed as a good law to solve some sort of unresolved problem. For example, I do not think that you have understood that point 1.9.1 of point 1.9 is the point of point 1.9. Construction of toll stations like you now have before your eyes, for example, in accordance with the direction of point 1.9.1. in Article 2 is not possible, I understand. We're talking about Article 2. Of course, the fact that for some motorways, existing ones, a location plan has been adopted so that a toll station can be built there, but with a change of location plan, I understand. But it is true that the change in the location plan will now be much easier, and that is true. In that case, however, it will be relatively easy to obtain a building permit for such a toll station on the basis of a revised location plan. I think that the implementation of the planned toll stationing programme proposed by Dars will not be able to avoid it in the long run. It would be difficult to avoid it already on the basis of existing legislation. The one who simplifies things, in fact, makes the way easier for him. But once again, what you've been saying, frontal toll stations based on points 1.9.1 are not possible in my understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you. The word is Ivan Mamić. A debate or a replica? Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your explanation, but I've read it myself. I'm afraid it's too little, if you say so, in my opinion. Even though you're a minister. Officials, when they write permits, when they judge when location information is needed and so on, will only act as they understand this law and they will have absolutely no interest in what they promise in the National Assembly, although I am pleased to hear what they hear. I'd like this to be written down somewhere, so it'll hold. But nevertheless, there remains a toll station, such as the one already built there at Raztrům, and this is my question within this replica to explain to everyone else, such a toll station in your opinion therefore needs no special building permit, but only a notification of works. That's the logic. Did I get you right? That's what I wanted to ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u51	Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I'm going to speak here as a builder, not a politician. I think that point 1.9.1 should this amendment be adopted, it will not be contrary to point 1.9. Point 1.9 states that the structure is less demanding. I don't think that's true of the toll station. Why? The road station is very exposed to the wind, so to speak, to the horizontal forces that are forming, this is the force that moves the object and sucks it and then lifts the roof. This means that if there is no static account - there can be what stations, say, if they are typical, one has done well and will be copied throughout Slovenia for a hundred years, and so on - then that would still be true. However, if we are talking about a toll station as such, if it is not made properly by the construction sense, by the constructive sense, it is dangerous to break it. But the consequences are, we know what if he takes the roof, like, he falls on cars and so on. I will therefore support this amendment and propose that a new indent may be added to the toll stations and that this also be processed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thanks, buddy Mamić. Tone Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u54	Sometimes a person has the feeling that he is not really sitting in the right place, so that he does not sit in a national assembly where he should actually pursue more or most or all of the different interests and in particular make sure that decisions are neutral, that they will be the same for all citizens, that they will be able to do what they need to do, live and so on. When we talk about a law called the Construction of Buildings Act, and it is still important for citizens, for that part relating to their needs, as well as for the whole country, to regulate things in a way that is appropriate, as is best for it, for the environment itself, for the removal of traffic, in short, for the performance of all the functions to be performed. In this context, I also understand this Article 2 and the amendments to this Article. Article 2 tried to settle in my opinion something that was probably bad in the past - to remove obstacles that were also for so-called simple objects and so on. That is why I understand that the amendment to point 1.9.1 is so much the result of a desire to prevent something other than what is actually written in here. I firmly believe that even if we are talking about this, or if those who advocate this amendment are saying that they are primarily concerned with a professional solution, that it will not be any mascara, that there will be nothing professionally objectionable to them, that this toll system should not be complemented in the way that it would be necessary and, of course, as it would be possible to do with such regulation. This national assembly, if it was not even a congregation, but I think that it was a national assembly, has decided that there will be no toll stations or to collect tolls in Slovenia. I think this was Mr Sesherek's proposal at some point. Later it was the same national assembly, which was already a national assembly, found that this country would not be able to build a highway network, and in particular not to repay credits and maintain these roads unless it collects tolls. As a result of the decision made at the time, Mr Sesherko was, first of all, the Deputy Prime Minister and later also a Member of the Government, the effect was that it had started to be planned differently in Slovenia, that sections had been done without toll stations, that different systems had been in place and so on. I guess it's wrong. This is not in any way about the LDS and the desire of this LDS, as luckily the roads are not just for Members and for citizens close to LDS and a customer. But it's a public good, it's something we all have to worry about. When the debate on this, in the first reading and with the representatives of the Ministry, was always at the forefront of only one ambition to allow where, due to the wrong planning, some things that were objective or subjective or of any nature have failed to collect the toll and this system has not been planned in such a way that it is possible to do so. I'm sure when it comes to to toll stations, the definition is poor. We should write tolling objects or something. Because tomorrow, if this is really just gonna be a two-meter box and an antenna when we drive by, and that's gonna count us down from the counter, it's definitely gonna be a simple object. But if we are going to put this simple facility there, if we are going to have to go after the building permit in the congregation, I'm sure that if this is about the interest of the citizens - but we're not going to put it there. Do not talk about leading toll stations, because all leading toll stations in Slovenia are placed in space. You can't make them anymore. Maybe another one in Gorenjska, but this one is also questionable because it's already one. After all those projects that can be detected from the national highway programme, they will not be. And that's, I'll say, a cheap argument that doesn't hold. I am sure that the equality of citizens in this country comes through this provision as well. It is not possible that some have built motorways without tolls, for this is the next thesis, since each marriage must also ensure that the country is able to collect the money it needs to build further. It's not fair, it's not fair, and it's not equal for the Domžals to get a four-passenger in the north, a four-passenger in the south, and not to the Trojans to allow the toll to be collected. All other roads in the coming years, look at the annual rebalancing of the programme from a couple of years ago on the highway, and look at the annual programmes, which are already under consideration for 2003, you will find that in the next ten, fifteen years if this source is not there, then these roads where they are so, I don't know if it's called now, what's right or wrong, the depressed region will not do so in these regions. Then you have to say it here. Even some lawyers of the European Court of Justice exist when Germans, Austrians and others are suing there, because even the blames that some would be the most honest and they are taking on them in Slovenia are no longer possible or probably will not be available in two years because European law will not allow or legal regulation will not allow someone to pay a kilometer tolar and another for a kilometer, I don't know, another digit. But he'll pay for what he'll actually use. Now I'm discussing the tolls, too, because there was too much to say. Do not refer to the argument that this is an object that is a professional disgrace, which is, I don't know, what and so on. After all, all these side toll stations, as well as frontal stations, are typical, are the same. And you already know all the consequences that come from this. I can't support it. However, if the definition can be changed in the sense that tolling facilities, which can also be different, but not those four, five toll stations that are meant through this, because we do not just say so. We have so many and so many roads in Slovenia and so much and so much traffic from the toll system. I will not support the amendment at 2nd paragraph, and I will support it because it solves infrastructure reconstruction, which I think is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you. Of the reported colleagues Dušan Vukko, and then Mr Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! First, I would like to express my conviction that the building law is a major step forward in this area. In particular, I would also stress that we are writing the law to regulate the situation further in this area, not backwards. In this regard, I would say this. In view of what the Minister has highlighted, then, in view of what colleague Pavlinič Krebs stressed when she spoke about the fundamental intention of all those who participated in the drafting of the final text of the law, namely deregulation, simplification, and also in the light of the second paragraph of Article 8, which gives the Minister the authority to determine, in cooperation with the Ministers concerned, the types of simple objects as well as their greatest size, construction style and so on, I do not see any fear, at least personally, that what some fear is happening. That is why I have no reason to support the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. In all of this, I suppose something else - for the future routes of the motorway programme, which are still and are not all of the plans to be adopted, I understand that these locations and projects clearly record those infrastructure projects that are planned for construction there. And there's a procedure, we know what it's like. By voting personally against the amendment proposed by the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you. I give my word to Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you. I'm going to replicate Mr. Anderlich for a moment. He also spoke about things that he did not know or perhaps did not understand correctly or correctly when he spoke about some typical projects or objects. It doesn't matter at all. If I have a project for a tower, and I get a building permit for it, and then I want to build a hundred of them, I have to get a new building permit for everyone, regardless of the fact that it's exactly the same project. This has no connection, it's a location, it's a location, it's a location, and it's the conditions that are required there at the location itself. Everything else, the typical project here has nothing to do with it. If you don't understand, I don't know, it's basically like I just told you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u59	Tone Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u60	I just said for the sake of comparison, let's let it be that there's already been a decomposition, that it's in the road body, that you know exactly that there's a road and that it's always going to be, and it's only important whether you pay the toll or not. But I wanted to emphasize that these objects, which are designed to do so, are all calculated, safety, environmental impacts and so on, and are actually so typical, not without knowing what you're saying, but more for illustration.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u61	Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u62	In particular, I would like to hear from the Minister the answer to my question whether there is a toll station that has one or two exports on the one hand and then one, probably two imports on the other, or whether it is such an object. However, I understand Mr Anderlich himself doubts that this definition of the toll station may be controversial. I very much agree with this that an object in the future can be significantly different from what it is today, and I also sincerely hope that it will happen soon. However, current experience shows that a species is being collected where the toll station is set up. Look at what it looks like on the Vrhnika at the time of the traffic spikes. On exports from the highway to Vrhnika, there are two kilometres of vehicles and we cannot say that these small toll stations cause some negative environmental impacts. I'm surprised the naturalists don't show up here right now and say, wait a minute, a kilometre-long column of vehicles that lasts an hour, two hours, causes such and such negative environmental impacts. And because it causes them, people who live in the immediate vicinity have some right. Besides, it's impossible to go. But this does not change the fact in any way and what I said before: it is unacceptable that in Slovenia we have such an unfair toll collection regime. It's a crucial thing, but not for this law. That's not the point for this law. In this law we are talking about building buildings, not toll stations. I would therefore ask the Minister again if he could answer that question. Can I do it again? Is a small toll station with two exits, or even one, these by-products that are really small, or is it a simple object that is structurally less demanding, what you quoted earlier, or is it not?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you. Minister, you want to explain that? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u64	See, it is intended to determine exactly which object is a simple object, with a sub-legislative act. I think it was mentioned earlier by Member Wolf. It's about Article 8. Whether that toll station is, you mentioned Razdrta, if I am not mistaken, such that it meets these requirements that it is an object that does not need special static and technical verification and whether it is an object that has no environmental impact under environmental protection regulations, I really cannot tell you this right now because it is a matter of creating a sub-legal act, but also ultimately a variety of professional judgements and can also argue. So I can't say right now that it's a simple object or yes, it's not a simple object. But it's probably somewhere on the border.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you. More, Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u66	That's worrying, Mr. Secretary. And then I ask you if you can tell me what toll stations are meant. We're talking about highways. The one I've seen so far is a toll station. You don't know if it'd be necessary or not. Now I ask what toll stations would require, for example, a building permit or if this text, which was submitted by liberal democracy and is now in the text of the law, which are these toll stations then. Then I can't imagine what they would be. What kind of facilities would that be? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you. Would you like another word for an explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u68	I'll try to answer that question, although it's obviously very difficult for me to respond satisfactorily to Dr. Brejc. For sure, simple objects are objects that are structurally purely non-requirent, as mentioned by Mr Anderlich, for example, a small box for electronic tolling. This I hope to say is a structurally unnecessary object and if it is not a stop in place, but perhaps just a slow ride, that it is certainly not an environmental object. That's what I'm hoping to say right now. An object that has a structurally required roof, especially in a wind site requiring a possible high road fence requiring long waiting columns, is certainly a structurally demanding object with environmental impacts. I also hope to say this without more detailed knowledge of the plans. For objects that are made of some light components without roofs and, I don't know what else they would want to hear from me right now, but of course I can't say exactly whether they could be counted as simple objects or not, according to these requirements.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you, Minister. Another word, Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u70	I thank the Minister for these answers, which have now been quite clear. It is said that these objects, which are now included and considered under 1.9.1, are objects such as we do not have in Slovenia now. I mean, like toll stations, because we talk about toll stations all the time. It is obvious that these objects will be like Mr Anderlič said earlier, or they will be just small, undetected impacts that will not affect the environment that will not cause columns and so on. What the Minister has just said, it's a pleasure to meet you. If I'd known that before, I wouldn't have spoken to him in the first place, and our amendment wouldn't have arisen. But since we had a real toll station in front of us, including the smallest one in Slovenia, we have just tabled an amendment. But now that it has been said that it is not such toll stations, of course the situation is different. I thank the Minister for fully defining these facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you. Comrade Jerovšek, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Anyone else want a word on Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2? If not, I conclude the debate on this Article and the amendments. We are moving on to Article 34 and the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 34. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 34. We are moving on to Article 43 and the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 43. Who wants a word? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Article 43 speaks of public competitions. I must express my satisfaction at the way in which article 43 of the second reading has been completed, in the way that searching is the most professionally appropriate solution for architectural or urban and landscape construction with public competition, which is obligatory in cases where the investor is a state or local community, of course, for facilities in public use. I think this is a very important and respectful solution for architecture. I can point out why. Because, in some ways, the State or the local community must set an example for democratic decision-making. Public competitions are certainly because they in some way discourage lobbyist, perhaps sometimes clientistic, not necessarily professionally justified projects, but certainly prevent the possibility of subjective, not necessarily professional decisions, they also discourage or prevent the possibility of financial invoices, where usually the cheapest offer becomes the fastest or the most convenient offer, although in the end it is only more expensive than at the beginning. Well, I'm not just talking about the financial sense. In addition to these competitions, they develop and encourage expertise. No doubt that's it. This is already, and so on in our space, repeatedly underestimated and, unlike other, especially European, comparable practices, sometimes degraded. If you follow global meetings, exhibitions in the field of architecture, landscape, urban planning and spatial regulation, you will always follow ideas that develop at competitions that have become a criterion for the development of such thoughts, architectural thoughts, as well as the assessment of the maturity of the contracting authorities or the assessors of these solutions. We are now meeting with the amendment to Article 43, which I would like to define in two aspects. This amendment excludes competition in those facilities which do not exceed the investment value of SIT 300 million. It is positive because it solves in some way some criterion that, however, every single order does not fall under this institution, which may indeed not be justified and has resorted to financial justifications as a criterion when and when it does not. At the same time, however, it is also questionable because it assumes that exactly 300 million are worth of intervention at the same time unworthy professional judgements. For example, the regulation of a single market in the city core, which is a difficult and very sensitive task, not to say urban and regionally important or urbanly important, is often a mandatory competitive task that would fall out of this logic because it would be less valuable than the 300 million. And it would probably be, in fact, because these may be small interventions, which do not financially have major consequences, but they carry large volumes in terms of regulating the space. In this respect, it would be appropriate to consider in the third reading whether the fixing of this sum is appropriate. If it is necessary to define an investment value, it could be said in further consideration that for high construction and, for example, for external arrangements, this sum could be significantly lower and for low sums it could be higher, but I think that experts in this area would also be able to find a slightly better solution in the light of foreign practices. I would like to emphasise that the competition institute means the cultivation of the contracting authority and the consumer at the same time, so all of us. While I must admit that I am disturbed by the solution in Article 43, which is very detailed in the composition of the Competition Commissions, because I believe that this is the subject of a regulation rather than a law. For here there are also some dilemmas that speak of the distinction between the investor and the escort, or between the contracting authority. There can be more investors and so on. But given that I suppose the article will remain open and because I also trust the drafters of the law as far as the preparation of the sub-laws is concerned, it would be possible for the third reading to consider these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you. The word was wanted by the Minister, Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs Shirca said that it would suggest that a solution should be considered with regard to the limits for the public tender. I think it would be particularly good to look at the text, as is now proposed along with the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group. What's it supposed to be? There'll be no misunderstanding. It is predicted that the public tender is mandatory if you so imagine an investor, whoever it is. In all cases. From one tolar, of course, to one billion and more. It is mandatory in all cases where the investor is a state or municipality and it is an investment of more than 300 million tolars. And it is mandatory in all cases from nothing to 300 million tolars when it comes to objects or old ones, interventions to a place for which a sub-legal act so provides and which is in here are covered precisely by those objects which the Member has mentioned as an example - such as the arrangement of a park, a smaller one, or a market in a small village, certainly does not cost 300 million tolars, but this is certainly an object for which it is appropriate to have a public competition. And it's all supposed to be here. In addition to the LDS amendment, which the government also supports, I think there is no need for any further intervention in this Article. As far as I'm concerned, uh, and, uh, my associates are warning me, we have a fourth option besides these three. If the spatial act provides for a compulsory public tender, the public tender is either mandatory or the investor does not want to, but the investment is small or large. So that there is little public competition and that the architects have little work to do, surely there is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on Article 43? Nobody. I conclude the debate on this Article and bring to the debate Article 55 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club to Article 55. Who wants to discuss it? Nobody. Thank you. I also conclude the debate on Article 55. I am putting to the debate Article 58 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 58. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I also conclude the debate on this article. I am also putting to the debate Article 79 and the amendment to this Article, the LDS Club of Members. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I also conclude the debate on Article 79. With this, we have exhausted the debate, and the amendments will be voted on at 7.45 a.m. in accordance with the meeting's timetable. This concludes this agenda item. Thank you for your cooperation with the Minister and the other government representatives and for your discussion. We'll continue the session at 13.05 p.m., so until then, I'm taking a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u76	We're moving to 14. Period of the day - Third defense of the proposal for a law on the regulation of the space. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an additional explanation of the proposal. That'll be three minutes. Is this going to be the minister? Here you go. At the same time, I welcome my colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! The bill is here at third reading. There's something special I don't think we need to discuss. However, allow me to touch on the proposed amendments. The amendments are only three and the government has proposed some harmonisation amendment, which, of course, comes into force only after the draft law has already been adopted in the third reading, although this is editorial finesse. Three amendments have been tabled here by three parliamentary groups and all three have been tabled in the same article 6. We two of these three amendments, the amendments of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Slovenian People's Party, are opposed. They are both very similar, not exactly identical and both propose that from now on it is prohibited to interfere with agricultural land in the possible expansion beyond the existing settlements. Which means, in the future, it would be illegal to put in Slovenia another ski resort, a single jumper, one only three tracks, anywhere, one golf course alone, anything of course, if it were outside the area of the existing settlement. Furthermore, this amendment proposes that no enlargement may be allowed, if I may use this term, of the various loners, which means, say, mountain farms, but if they want to put in another silo. No, it's illegal under the letter of the law. I am therefore very surprised that such amendments come from the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party. Furthermore, this amendment proposes that it is prohibited to open one single sandbox or one single quarry in Slovenia, except for those which are not of national importance. What kind of quarry could be of local importance? Furthermore, this amendment proposes that, if the settlement is already expanding, this settlement or the extension to forest land should be directed before any building of agricultural land. Some settlements may become very asymmetric because they would store some soil that still exists in the middle of the settlement and would have to expand to forest areas if they existed nearby. In short, the amendment proposes things which, in our view, are completely unnecessary, non-lifely, but certainly the criteria under which we may exceptionally interfere with agricultural land by law are perfectly well defined and therefore there is no need for such an amendment. Just one more sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u78	Just end up in peace. We've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u79	The amendment of the Socialist Party's Group to this Article 6 which allows only the functional rounding of the Croatian farms seems very appropriate, life, meaning and we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you, Minister. I now give the full floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups on the draft law, and I have these applications in order. First, Mr. Kebrich, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u81	Mr. Chairman, thank you so much for your word. Dear Mr. Minister and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we are pleased to have brought this law to a third reading, because we believe that this law is for the country and, above all, for citizens who, through their own self-government bodies, will have the opportunity to influence the policy of regulating the Slovenian space, the right one and we will support it as such in our sending group. There have been discussions, there have been two amendments, and we believe that this debate, concrete on these two amendments, will clear up and crystallize the text that all Members will consider to be the most useful and most favourable for citizens. Therefore, I say in advance that our Group of Members will support and vote in favour of this Act. After discussions on these amendments, we will shape our position on these two amendments. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, United List, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we note that the dynamics of Slovenia's development are remarkable and legislation needs to be adapted, especially those which place this dynamic in space. That is why the law on the regulation of space is also extremely necessary in our view, and especially in the form that we can track it or as recorded in the third reading. For the speed and dynamics are the ones that are supposed to respond to and mark or give a tone to this law, and we see this speed mainly in the simultaneous adoption of various spatial acts, reduced procedures for completing the spatial order of municipalities, deadlines for the approval of spatial acts, a uniform procedure for the adoption of the site plan and associated changes in spatial order, and in particular in the active land policy. Of course, the law itself regulates in its purpose space in a way that will allow for coherent spatial development and somehow coordinate it, both in terms of economic, social and environmental aspects. These interests are, of course, often contradictory, so that only the implementation of the law will depend to a large extent also on the quality of the professional basis, so that it will be possible to resolve some important issue later on when there will be uncoordinated views. It is probably a good solution, even because these positions, which may remain uncoordinated, are allowed for the government to decide on a proposal from the Minister in the event of uncoordinated interests and, of course, we can move forward. Of course, the country and the local community are key to spatial policy-making. Cooperation between the country and the local community will certainly also be crucial to how the law will work in practice. There may be too much focus in this direction to allow the state to set orientation and development goals, which, of course, will later have to be taken into account by the local community in its spatial acts. Here I think it will be necessary to have an additional dialogue or an effort not to create these acts too much for everyone, i.e. actions at the state level and at the local level. For the spatial conference, which is otherwise intended for these views to be exchanged, is one of the procedures that is supposed to bring the local community and the state closer together. However, this conference may not be enough and there will be a need for good cooperation between professional services, individual ministries, and professional services in the local community. However, accession to active land policy is certainly also crucial for other development. Indeed, if the local community is in particular able to acquire land and other real estates, in fact, some investments can also be started and some interests can be met in a wide variety of areas. Here it is very important that this law is also adopted before, of course, the national housing savings scheme, which will certainly require a whole range of land for its implementation, in order to be able to run an investment cycle that will enable the implementation of this national programme. We believe it is good that this land policy programme also includes the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which has already established good contact with local communities and I think that the assistance with the financial and other measures envisaged, namely aid to the local communities in particular, will accelerate this dynamic of cooperation and the resolution of one of the most pressing problems in the Slovenian space, namely housing problems. Good cooperation between local communities and the country is somehow to be seen in this law in a regional spatial design, and this may also be one of those important directions that we will, it seems, give regional development in Slovenia even more opportunities for development through this law. Of course, this development will depend very heavily on how high-quality foundations we will all have together and how quality information, especially location information, will be able to obtain an investor from a particular local community so that no problems will arise later. It is therefore a very big responsibility, both for the countries and for the local communities, and I believe that it will be crucial, or in our Group of Members, that good cooperation between the country and the local communities is essential to ensure all the needs in the area in Slovenia. That is why we support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members is to be presented by Mr Tanko, but it is not. Position SLS, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues who are still in the Chamber! So our parliamentary group will support the law on space regulation. However, at some point in the final stage of the adoption of this law, I would just like to comment on two things, namely the implementation of an active land policy. Under this law, the Housing Fund was under-indebted when we wrote that it would start implementing active land policy only when it harmonised its acts and regulations. This is probably not enough, because housing and active land policy in Slovenia should run every day and should not stop anything. I would also like to draw attention to some of the discomforts or criticisms experienced by members of the Slovenian People's Party, if we are not concerned about agricultural land. That's not true. We have said that in both laws, in the law that we dealt with this morning, and in this law, there will be greater interventions into agricultural land than they have been before, or more easily, investors will come to land, to building land than before; that it is a matter of active agricultural policy around agricultural land the matter of the law when it comes to treatment, namely, the agricultural land law. We know that the Constitutional Court has kept it in one chapter and needs to be supplemented, and I think that we will be able to get a better look at it, because we do not want to have a sign on our backs that we did not defend agricultural land - agricultural land yes, but where they are indeed such that they can be used for agricultural production, but not everywhere in Slovenia, in the mountainous region, especially where 80% of the area of some local communities has already been healed by quasi forest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. He's not here? We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. The draft law is fully under discussion by Members and Members. Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, sir. Dear fellow Members and Members! I'm actually going to repeat the debate that I'm here for the second reading of the principles. Indeed, this law has been thoroughly discussed, both on the Infrastructure Committee, and a thorough public debate has been organised on this law, and it must be borne in mind that an important law such as the Law on the regulation of space is essential and leads to a conflict of interest. The fact is that some people want to build roads, for example, athletes would definitely like to build sports facilities, I don't know, golf courses and, as appropriate, farmers' agricultural facilities. In my second reading, I already came from one fact, which he transmitted both in public debate and on the Infrastructure Committee of Prof. Dr. Lobnik, on behalf of the Environmental Protection Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The results obtained by all Members show that in Slovenia the agricultural land is rapidly and sharply shrinking. If we had 66 acres of agricultural land in 1950, this figure fell to 38 acres in 2000. So almost 50 years later, she split up. If we had 21 acres of fields and gardens in 1950, the number in 2000 was only 11 acres. The report from the European Union states that if the country wants to ensure food security, it must count on at least 30 acres of agricultural area per capita. Anything less than that is said, the country is putting it into some kind of dependence in this food field. And Slovenia is undoubtedly dependent at this point. If you are looking at the agricultural report, you can see that Slovenia imports more food items from year to year. This number increases somehow with a factor of 10% per year. And in this agricultural area it is predicted that if things go this way, we will remain in Slovenia for the next 50 years without the best agricultural land. And that is a sufficient reason why this national assembly should think about it and seriously discuss it. However, just as it is not the right will to listen to the problem in agriculture, so it is certainly not the right will to listen to this very pressing problem. I may also mention that in 1950, requirements for a change of destination by municipalities were about 140 hectares of agricultural land, and in 2000 this requirement increased to 2,340 hectares. So at such an intense pace, this development is taking place and we are building on the best agricultural land. If I take into account all the crops that are the result of Slovenia, in my view, of missing regional economic policies, then this area or this country is in the future being poorly written. Article 8 of the Law on Agricultural Lands, which is now being repealed by this Act on the regulation of premises, of course, spoke about how agricultural land is protected. The law stipulated that this Article 8 provided that for all operations on the best agricultural land, when it was not possible to provide other land, the government would decide. Such a solution seems to us in our Group of Members to be extremely thoughtful and meaningful. Therefore, despite several articles talking about the protection of agricultural land, this is no longer the case, but the actual decision on this is left to the Minister or the Ministry of Environment and Space. While more detailed criteria are needed, more precise criteria on the basis of which the Minister is supposed to decide are not enshrined in the law itself. In your second reading, you have tabled one amendment to Article 6, on behalf of the four ruling coalition groups, where some of this has been written down, but of course still very extensive, very unpredictable and only sub-legislative acts should lay down more precise criteria for changing the destination of agricultural land, despite the fact that the Constitution in its 71st Article says that criteria for the protection of agricultural land must be laid down in the law itself. So we find this in our parliamentary group that this is not regulated by this law. I hope to predict that as a result of this Slovenian agricultural area will be under great pressure in the near future by potential investors from all possible areas. So from all possible areas. And if we compare land protection with air and water protection, then at this point we can find that we are doing something else in the field of water and air protection, and virtually nothing in the area of agricultural land protection. For this reason, we have also tabled two amendments to Article 6 in our Group, as you estimate, the Minister has already rejected them in his opening act, but we think that in such important decisions as the change in the destination of agricultural land, if not the other, at least the Ministry of Agriculture should participate, and this law, the Ministry of Agriculture, I would say, will exclude the consequences of this decision from our country and will certainly not be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The Minister will reply later when all the Members and Members who have been registered will conclude the debate, so that they can respond at once. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister with his coworkers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I applied for the debate mainly with the aim of explaining the amendment of the Social Democratic Party to Article 6. So I'm asking, now, is this the moment, or after we go from article to article?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u90	Yes, here we have Article 6 - now the law is complete.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u92	At present, the debate on the law is complete.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u93	Then I'd rather check in with Article 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u94	Okay, thanks. Mr. Wolf, the whole marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues and the Minister! With the law we are adopting today, we will finally say good-bye to social planning in the area of space in our country, and it will also end the transitional period in this area, which has been going on ever since the adoption of the Constitution in 1991. Just before the adoption of the law, I would like to reiterate some of the new developments brought by the law. A key improvement, in my view, is a clear delimitation of competences in the area of space regulation between the State and the municipalities. I am particularly pleased that the law also sets out more clearly the role and competence of the co-legislators in the preparation and adoption of the spatial act. I think it is right that the law also allows for greater flexibility of spatial acts and allows for the possibility of a so-called urban contract that can be adopted by the State or the municipality and the investor. Major progress is also the possibility of a reduced procedure for the preparation of a spatial act. In particular, it is important to note another novelty, namely the location information which, according to its content, confirmed by the competent administrative authority on the permissible use of space and the conditions for access to space as provided for in the spatial acts. This novelty is also important in connection with the new construction law, which no longer recognises the notification of works, neither for simple facilities nor for the maintenance of the facility, nor for the change of use. Construction and maintenance will therefore be possible at any time, of course in accordance with the location conditions recorded in the location information. Furthermore, a number of instruments for active land policy adopted by law must be assessed positively, which is particularly important for municipalities which are the basic agents of spatial planning. However, we positively assess the possibility of private property in public infrastructure and the possibility that the municipality can transfer the implementation and financing of equipment with an urban contract to a person of private law. I also commend and support a number of other innovations and improvements brought by the new law. Of course, spatial planning is a very difficult task. It will also be necessary to establish a new system in practice. Today I can already assess that the procedure for adopting this law, which required a lot of work and engagement, has also been required, both for governments and for us Members. On this occasion, I would like to thank, on my behalf, the representatives of the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, for their exemplary cooperation through the legislative process and for their constructive assistance in preparing a large number of amendments that we have tabled in the second reading of this law on the home working body. Finally, let me say that I firmly believe that the new law on the regulation of space will provide a basis for good and reliable implementation of spatial acts, from which all the location conditions that are the basis for the construction of buildings will be clearly demonstrated, namely for the design, construction and maintenance of the facility. This will help to make the new law significantly faster and easier for investors and citizens to realize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Christmas has the floor. Mr. Christmas, do you want to discuss the whole law? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jerovšek, about the whole marriage? Not at all. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. I turn to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26.11.2002. Article 6(6) Here you have, if you look at the material, the New Slovenia parliamentary group, the Socialist Party parliamentary group, and in view of the practice so far, I also have to mention the amendment to the 6th article of the Slovenian People's Party, although the Slovenian People's Party has announced the withdrawal or withdrawal of these amendments. With regard to the practice so far, whether I agree with it or not, I have to include this amendment in this amendment review. So I am opening a debate on Article 6 and the amendments. Mr. Visjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I'm not going to say goodbye again, but it's all right again. The Social Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to Article 6 of the Law on Construction outside Settlement Areas. It is a matter of Article 6 that it is specified that construction of buildings outside the premises is permissible, provided that they meet certain conditions in the four points of this first paragraph, of course. Of course, in the Social Democratic Party, we add this new 5th point, which should be that outside the settlement areas it is permissible to build buildings even if it is objects intended for complementary activities carried out in the context of agricultural activity or is in direct contact with it. From experience and practice, I often know that there is a big problem on farms outside the Slovenian countryside when these farms naturally develop in accordance with some of their own policies for the development of this individual farm. Last but not least, according to some possible exchanges of owners or generations on farms. And, of course, they see in a certain point a need to engage in another complementary activity on farms. Be such an activity that is eloquent, this is said to be an upgrade and also raises the value of certain agricultural products which may otherwise be the main activity of this farm. In particular, here I am thinking about farm processing, especially here I am referring to some additional production options on farms, which are, of course, directly linked to agricultural production and, of course, these farmers or those owners are committed to this spatial documentation many times and cannot expand, cannot even dissipate their facilities in some of the minimum dimensions, and thus, of course, the wish to advance, after the development of the farm, and not least after some new opportunities, which are happening too badly in this Slovenian countryside. I come from a municipality where we have two wine tourist roads on the one and the other banks of the Sava River, where we have many farms dealing with fruit farming, and I think that only fruit production, grape production and wine are insufficient. I think that the perspective of these people is, above all, that they are also selling their products on farms to direct users, that they will not eventually convert certain parts of their production into a higher price form or a higher quality category, and thus, of course, they deserve the additional money that can provide them with development and the argument that they will remain in this Slovenian countryside. In short, this amendment is aimed primarily at this light to enable people engaged in agricultural activities to do so on farms and, of course, to do so outside the settlement areas of construction, to do so without hindrance, and to do so, of course, in accordance with Article 6, paragraph 3, where it is stipulated that the criteria and conditions for the construction of buildings outside the settlement areas shall be determined in the spatial order of the municipalities in accordance with the spatial order of Slovenia. In short, the criteria and conditions for this are laid down so as not to give rise to some urban and unacceptable interventions into the space. However, I think that this 5th point allows a little more freedom, a few more development opportunities and a few more arguments for Slovenian farmers to stay in the countryside, to develop there, and, finally, this flow, the negative demographic flows turn in a positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Who wants a word on Article 6 and the amendments? Yes, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u99	So I'd like to briefly introduce our amendment. Initially, the Minister of the Bather rejected him with great fears, and I do not know where he sees in this amendment all that he mentioned, that if this is accepted, then nothing will be possible to build and so on. So, of course, none of this is true. We therefore propose that the words "sport and recreation" be deleted in the first paragraph of Article 6. It's about building outside the settlement areas. So this amendment was somehow created on the proposal of the Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia and I believe that, as long as it is possible outside the settlement areas, it will also be possible to regulate things such as sports-recreational zones and similar that in Slovenia there will be many new sports, football playgrounds in the short term. I don't know if they're needed at this point. We don't even know that. But it's the law that gives you that opportunity. And then, we proposed that the third paragraph of Article 6 should be amended to include the Ministry of Agriculture in determining the criteria and conditions for the construction of buildings outside the premises. This would seem reasonable to us and we were delighted when we found that the same amendment was also tabled by the Slovenian People's Party, which department of the Ministry of Agriculture in this government. But as we see today, they have withdrawn their amendment. Otherwise, they were also co-sponsors of the second reading amendment of the coalition, which, after the Minister's assurance, was intended to resolve this problem in such a way that abuses in the agricultural area were not to occur. We in our parliamentary group don't think so, so we tabled this amendment. If others do, we will have a calm and clear conscience before the Slovenian public, and we will be able to once this law on the regulation of space is rectified, or when someone will eventually file a constitutional dispute over this law - because the protection of agricultural land is a constitutional category which, according to our opinion, is not sufficiently worked out - then we will be able to find that we were only right when we advocated that more detailed criteria for the protection of agricultural land should be laid down in this law, which of course they are not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u101	With a calm and clear conscience, I will reject the amendment of the New Slovenia Group's amendment to Article 6. Why? The current Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act is my assessment and assessment of many too narrow, allowing for a change in primary agricultural use for three purposes. And I repeat them. As at the second reading of this law. In particular, for primary agricultural use and production, then for the construction of protection and rescue facilities and for the third time, which I would stress, the expansion of burial sites. It is right that Article 6 opens the way for interventions to the premises also on agricultural land, but, of course, the law must be read in its entirety, subject to the second paragraph. Only when it is not possible to use less quality land for this non-agricultural construction. Let us, therefore, stop in some way from being intimidated and from knowing what the existing legislation provides. And if we read it correctly in Article 6 it is clear enough that, of course, it will not only affect agricultural land. If these areas are not in place, this will, of course, also have to be settled on agricultural land, of course with an appropriate professional solution, as set out in the second paragraph of Article 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u103	Mr Vukko would only add to the fact that Article 8 really provided for three exceptions - but this law will remove this Article 8 - when it can reach agricultural land. So for all the other cases, the government could have taken that decision and the government could have made that decision. This is the case in Article 8 of the present article, so that we will say the matter to the end. Now, of course, this law on the regulation of space bypasses the government and it is the minister who actually assumes this function on behalf of the entire government. We are always opposed to this and we want to show you that it does not seem right, and it will probably prove wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u104	Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. In the course of this debate, I would add the following. Personally, I am fully in favour of the agricultural land, the best agricultural land, which is not only the best agricultural land, but the agricultural land that serves its purpose today, as it will be in the future or in the past, I think it is worth all the protection. And I think that there are enough mechanisms in both the laws that protect it, and I think it would be extremely unacceptable to interfere in this country and thus to undermine some of the natural values that our Slovenia has, and I hope it will not waste. I understand this Article, in particular, when some status of the earth, even though it is not in one, I would say, is an elementary agricultural role, but it is so defined, or even by hindering some development, in one way or another, that there is some possibility that we have missed all too often in the past. Each one of us, who has dealt with any development in any area, has seen that many times the glass of this development is something uncontested. I am not saying that we will distribute the agricultural land, but I know many areas in our congregation, which are the first category of agricultural land, but they have been abandoned for 20 years and the only problem is to eat it because it is actually there, not grass, but some deserted land. However, I think it would be bad if, because of the status of this land - and the problem is in fact also in the status, why is it even so defined if it is not so in nature - it was some obstacle to development, but if the content is not quite short. I am talking about the fact that it is only essential, substantially more emphasis on content, that it is said whether a country actually serves this agricultural activity, or whether it is also intended to do so, or whether it is just a status such as that and, of course, that means a developmental problem. In short, I believe that there must be some possibility of building outside the settlement areas also for these purposes, and that the fuse, that it would not only occur to the most essential, is to scrupulously and somehow also to interfere with the best agricultural area, that these fuses are sufficient, and I believe that this will not happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. See, Mr Sok, you - maybe it was a lapsus - said article 6 allows you to build, for example, sports objects past the spatial act of the municipality also outside the settlement areas and settlements; perhaps it was a lapsus, although I remembered well. That's not true. Article 6 speaks of when, exceptionally, the spatial act of the municipality may also be visited in the agricultural lands of out-of-town settlements outside the areas of residence. He's making exceptions. He's very specific about them. You don't think it's accurate enough. But I'll try to explain to you why I think you're wrong. The general article determining where a settlement is to be headed is Article 5. This speaks, when exceptionally, and how a new move can be directed at all outside, i.e. on agricultural land, and Article 5 is indeed replacing Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act. Well, you didn't put an amendment on him. It says that first we need to go to degraded areas, first we need to look for other options and so on. In addition, it must be said that what you refer to as Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act is in fact very much at stake. I'll quote him. It's been a while since Member Wolf helped me. What does Article 8 say? "The Minister responsible for agriculture shall, in agreement with the Minister responsible for the premises, lay down more detailed conditions to be met so that facilities can be built on the best agricultural land". That's a provision. There has never been such a sub-legislative act, since the Minister of Agriculture has never prepared it, not the existing one, not the former one, and the former one. Thus, the case of a case of a case of a case of a case of a case of a case of a case of a case of a case of a case of a case of a case of a case of a case of a case of a law. And it was decided, but always at the Ministry of Agriculture, if they were exceptionally allowed to intervene, the reference was to the indent, which reads: "It is possible to go to agricultural land in the event of additional equipment with the activities necessary to satisfy the functions of the settlement, provided that there is no adequate building land or less valuable agricultural and forestry land available for this purpose." Additional equipment with activities. And that's the way it spreads, and the residential settlements, the rotating zones, and so on. This was an exception that made all this possible, but from case to case. It was very dependent on what the official at the Ministry of Agriculture would say. However, our system, which we are now bringing, allows for transparent rules of the game that have not been introduced. They weren't really there. I don't know what you're referring to. Now the law says, first of all, Article 5, which is systemic, says: First of all, free space must be used within existing settlements, and the expansion of the settlement is exceptionally permissible if the prudent development and consistency of urban quality can no longer be ensured, and the expansion of the settlement is generally directed towards land which, in terms of sustainable use of natural goods, namely the best agricultural land, and the preservation of natural and cultural heritage is less important." Furthermore, Article 6 states as an additional protector: "All these exceptions, defined by Article 6, are possible if this corresponds to their functional, protective and economic aspect and their acceptability in the local environment." In short, he's giving us an extra security guard. Now what I want to end with. Article 8 of the Law on Agricultural Lands has been inoperable; it has never really lived as it was supposed to, because there was no appropriate sub-law. However, we have now, in fact, incorporated Article 8 into this Law, Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act. How? 40. Article 40 of the Law on the regulation of premises refers to the fact that the spatial order initiative is given by the relevant ministers. As so far as the Minister of Agriculture has had the opportunity to prepare this sub-legislative act and has not been available in all these years, the Minister of Agriculture may, from 1 January onwards, propose the content of the spatial order in terms of the protection of agricultural land and lay down general national rules on the protection of agricultural land. This possibility for a sub-law which he had so far failed to take advantage of, he also has since 1 January. Therefore, I do not see any fear of any greater or unacceptable interference with agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Who else wants a word? We still have a few minutes. I see here, Mr. Sok first. Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. So I really don't know if these detailed criteria were prescribed or not, what Minister Digač says. However, I know from experience that all the aspirations so far in the construction of Slovenian motorways have been in this direction to build on the best agricultural land, and of course under this law, which has been in force so far, in this Article 8. I also know that the Ministry of Agriculture has strictly put itself in the position of protecting the best agricultural land and that whenever construction has taken place on the best agricultural land, it has been decided by the Government. So not the Minister for Agriculture, not the Minister for Environment and Space, but the government. And that's also what I've said a few times before, but now with this law, this guard is out. It is said that this will no longer be decided by the government, nor is it specifically stated in the law as you say that the Ministry of Agriculture will have a decisive role and word in this, but you will in fact decide everything in the future at the Ministry of Environment and Space or in the sense of the Minister of State. However, as regards what has been said in relation to some of the lands which are planted and which are still protected as agricultural land, it is not the problem of this law and these solutions, of course, but the problem of categorisation. That is to say, this is another procedure where competent, the real municipality and the Ministry of Agriculture have long since recategorised the land if it does not fall within the category of first-class agricultural land. And this is not a problem that would be directly linked to this law or to building on the best agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I would like to replicate Mr Sok, but this is not a replica of him, but of the opinion of the people who have implemented Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act so far. With us - I can show you an example - a farmer builds a barn and has not yet obtained a building permit for intervention on agricultural land for four years. At that time two children were born to him - thank God, but he expects to receive a building permit after the new law, and this farmer in a remote village. This is due to a strict view of Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Yes, you can. So I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the amendments and on the bill in accordance with the timing of the meeting today at 7.45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister and his co-workers for their cooperation. We'll continue the meeting at 2.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u113	Dear colleagues, we continue the meeting. We're moving on to 15. Period of the Day - Third Defence Bill on Disability Organizations. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In our midst, I welcome the representatives of the government, Mr Lidija Apohal Vukovic, State Secretary, Mrs Stanko Tutta, State Undersecretary and Government Adviser Mrs Damjano Peterlin. I give the floor to a representative of the government, Mrs. Stanki Tutta. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on disability organisations is prepared for third reading in accordance with the second reading amendments adopted. The Disability Organisations Act is the implementation of the 18th Standard Rules for the Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities, as it recognises disability organisations as carriers of specific social programmes for persons with disabilities, legalizes disability organisations as an organised form of participation of disabled citizens in state policies at all levels, and legalises mandatory consultation, dialogue with disabled organisations. The Special Rapporteur for Human Rights at the Organization of the United Nations, who visited Slovenia earlier this month, gave a positive assessment of this law as well as of other solutions and ways to solve the disability problem in Slovenia from the point of view of human rights and from the perspective of creating an opportunity for more equal inclusion of persons with disabilities in society. Members and Members of Parliament, we propose that you support and adopt with the amendments the amended law on disability organisations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you for the introductory explanation. We will move to a full debate on the proposal for a law. I would like to draw your attention to the total planned time of the parliamentary groups: LDS 10 minutes, SDS 5 minutes, United List 5 minutes, SLS 5 minutes, Nova Slovenija 10 minutes, DeSUS 5 minutes, Slovenian National Party 10 minutes and government 5 minutes. I give the floor to my colleague Ivan Kebrich to present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us in our third reading the law on disability organisations. We know that this law has undergone certain changes and very, I will say under the slogans, bitter debates in the mother's labour, that is, in the Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We believe that opinions have finally been crystallized and that the text that the government has corrected from another reading or has followed amendments in another reading is before us. It is essential that we receive the end of a law that will regulate these matters as it is written here. We believe that all the comments or wishes of individuals or individual associations, disability organisations cannot or could not be met. Disability does not want to be suppressed at the side of society, they do not want and do not want mercy, but they want - and this law through their organizations allows them - to be equal members of society, to be equal in all respects, regardless of whether they have one way or another, not just a physical flaw, either from birth or from any disease or injury that has occurred later in life. We believe that it is right here to focus and say that people with disabilities combine voluntarily with regard to their interests, which they can and will be more easily enforced through societies than as individuals. We believe that it is right to recognise, even though we know that disabled societies are very diverse and not only diverse on the other hand, but their interests differ through societies and through their relationships, rather than being unified, because in this case they would be significantly stronger than the organisation and even better taken into account. We in the parliamentary group will support this law because we believe it is necessary, I repeat that it is useful and that it is right in our belief. We will also support certain amendments because we believe that it is right that amendments improve the text that will serve disability organisations and their members in better perfection. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you for your position. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Danica Simšič, United List. Instead, she'll be Mrs. Silva Blackugelj. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well-welcome colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Today we are already discussing for the second time the issue of disability organisations at this meeting. For the first time yesterday, when we discussed the proposal to call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on disability organisations. In this national assembly, as well as in the working body, we have devoted a great deal of attention to the problems of disabled organisations, the status of disabled organisations, the way in which they operate, the way in which they are financed. The media not only focused on the law, but also on both the referendum initiatives, if not more attention than in the debates that took place in the home body and in the national assembly. It is likely that this is also the reason that, yesterday, all Members and Members of the National Assembly have been able to achieve so much energy and in the debate and in the context of the law which has matured and together with all the comments made at this assembly, there have also been certain changes, quality changes, so that the law has been given to quality and has shown that we Members of the National Assembly are actually able to accept all the initiatives from all interested groups and societies and disability organisations, if we have discussed with them. Because I think that all the initiatives that have been taken in the parent bodies and also in the national assembly, as well as in all internal coordination with individual stakeholders, we somehow knew and knew how well to accept them and through the amendments that we have adopted in one way or another in the first and third readings, have complicated them and, at least, these interests have been written in some way. I think that we Members have shown and proved that long-standing patient work in coordinating and communicating with all stakeholders is very necessary, because there was not enough of them here, there were a lot of them. We have shown that we are able to listen and take into account the opinions of very different and many stakeholders, societies and organisations. We have devoted more energy to these laws and certain provisions of this law in the United Social Democrats' Group of Members, because our view is that we need to protect and protect those who are weaker and more vulnerable. We believe that we have in some way proved and demonstrated that we also know how to discuss European and European democracy standards. The proposal of this Act, which does not cover more than 40 articles and adequately regulates the status, scope and functioning of disability organisations defined as voluntary and non-profit organisations acting as public interest and social protection societies. Most of the conditions and modes of operation and accession have remained left to disabled organisations to regulate their own in internal acts and I think that we have also left great freedom of decision-making and the possibility of an interest association and free hands to these same organisations. The law clearly defined the status of disability organisations, including clearly and unequivocally determining the manner in which the register of these organisations is kept, the content of this register was given, and the method of control was also established. He then determined the ownership of associations of disabled organisations, the way in which property is managed and the way in which the property is managed. In view of the debate so far and all the initiatives that have taken place and the proven tolerance, the Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support this bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr France Tsukati will give his position to the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The disability problem is very broad and diverse, which would make me deserve a more systematic approach than the proposed law does. First, we should adopt a umbrella law on humanitarian organisations, then an international classification of disability, in order to be able to determine how many and what persons with disabilities we have; then the law on the equalization of the possibility of persons with disabilities or anti-discrimination law, and finally, we would urgently need a law on the training and employment of persons with disabilities. We should therefore first define who is disabled and how many are and what rights the State must grant them, and then we should be able to talk about how these persons with disabilities should unite and how they exercise these rights. The Disability Organisations Act should be the last and not the first in a series of disability legislation. However, the law is here, in the third reading. The main purpose of the law is to regulate the distribution of representativeness, to legalise the National Council of Disability Organisations and to establish a few more order in the financial operations of these organisations. Even in the last reading, the proposed law is not the most successful in doing so, as it is still adhered to by the natural anomalies that we have tried to eliminate with the amendments, but unfortunately without success. First, it is a central and most sensitive issue: the distribution of representativeness. The proposal for a law in Article 19 provides that a disability representative organisation must include, which means membership, more than 33% of persons with the same type of disability or 33% of persons with different types of disability, but with the same legal or social status. The law will therefore allow only two representative disability organisations for each type of disability or status. As a result, 33% of persons with disabilities are expected to face serious complications in determining the condition, since in law the Ministry has waived the right to require a list of persons with disabilities to demonstrate the number of members involved. The Ministry will only be able to build its arbitral decision on a statement by the disability organisation on the number of persons with disabilities. However, with regard to the credibility of such statements, we have not much encouraging experience. In the 1997 elections to the State Council, for example, in order to reach more electors, some disabled organisations also listed ten times the number of professional workers compared to 1992. Nor is it a question of whose interests are represented by an individual disability organisation. In particular, in obtaining funds and various other benefits, it is entirely understandable to expect different competing interests from different organisations, which also proves this year's complication in the allocation of Fih funds. However, if each disability organisation assumes the right to represent not only its members but all persons with disabilities, then we will continue to witness the insurmountable conflicts between different interests. The representativeness by which a disability organisation can define and represent the interests of persons with disabilities who do not or do not wish to be members of it, because they do not agree with the views of the organisation, is a strange representation that does not respect the minimum democratic standards, freedom of association, co-formulation and representation. This law legitimizes the inability of people with disabilities to influence the behavior of their organization. The law prevents those persons with disabilities from having at least their non-membership or membership in a competitive disability organisation from having an impact on the policy of their organisation. The law that we are about to adopt today will therefore have to start writing large-scale changes and additions tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will give the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. The Law on Disability Organisations has been said throughout its long period of consideration and adoption so much that I also do not see the need to say much about the law that is practically set before us and before this State Assembly in its final form. It must be said, however, that the purpose of the proposaler was, as was the concept of the law, as was ultimately the substantive involvement of the law through individual articles, certainly an attempt, if nothing else, to consolidate the organisation of the disabled and thereby establish what must be the interest of the disabled, first of all. The more organised they are to be successful in communicating with state authorities and other public institutions. I think more or less this has been achieved with the law. Individuals certainly do, given that we have to assume that more or less of all the major contradictions within disability organizations are somehow the fruit of individuals. And certainly a number of individuals are not satisfied with the solutions, but after all, the law is here. It makes sense that these individuals too are organized in accordance with the law and will also, on the basis of their own excesses, achieve what the law wants to achieve. Surely a fundamental mission has been made. However, I expect the mission to intervene on the basis of this law as soon as possible after appropriate amendments to certain public rules governing the establishment and distribution of funds from the Foundation. We are late for a higher-up of this law with the Law on Humanitarian and Charity Organisations, and the sooner we get it under the roof, the sooner we will overcome another unreachable area. I hope that the legislator, this is the National Assembly, will face the appropriate proposal of the law as soon as possible. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will, of course, support the law in the third. It has also supported it so far and I think that the issue of representativeness in practice will also be exceeded as soon as they realise that even those who do not agree with it that the representativeness of some kind is a higher form of organisation and, above all, this organisation is needed primarily by members of themselves - a representative disability organisation. The interests must also be represented in the first place - first of all their members, and only then is the upgrading of interests in terms of representativeness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party would now be followed, but I do not see anyone present. In addition, Nova Slovenije did not sign up as a client, but before the start of the Mag. Janez Drobnič asked that his 10 minutes be divided into positions and debates. I'll just let it happen if no one disagrees. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u124	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the Law on Disability Organisations, which raised so much dust in the Slovenian public. Perhaps now, just before we accept it to the end, we should ask why this law raised so much dust. His initiative was probably well-intentioned, but the entire instrumentation and the whole material was not appropriate. It was a material that separated the Slovenian public, the disabled public, and the rest. Unfortunately. I hope that we will be through the Humanitarian Organizations Act, because I also said how I will do it, that we will expect a document that is truly coherent and also progressive, that we will accept it differently. Why wasn't the text right at first? Because it was based on the need for the existing uniformity of the current organisations, which were not able to democratise in this process. Some do, some less, some don't. That's the key reason. After all, you can look at the leadership of some of these organizations and find that the same people have been for 25 years or 30 years. Why is that? Did anyone ask? Because the tops have money, so the scissors and the canvas. And in this way they exercise their will over an individual. It is. Modern understanding of civil society goes in a different direction. He's an individual who has key rights and needs to be relied on. They do not know such a law on disability organisations in Europe, but they do know the laws governing charities and humanitarian organisations. Now, of course, I also wonder whether disability organisations will work on the principles of charity and humanitarianism or not, whether it is some "sui generis". That's a key question. I'm certainly thinking that's how they're gonna do it. That is why I have tabled, or that is why we have tabled, amendments in New Slovenia that would apply such a role and principle. Because there was no understanding of what is disability, what is humanitarian, what is a charity, then things happen to us in Slovenia, which unfortunately don't happen in the world - excesses that shed a bad light on everything, although they don't deserve it, because humanitarianism, charity, philanthropy and I don't know what else, in Slovenia, has a historical tradition. So, which are other troublesome things. This law is supposed to ensure integration, but if we look at the text, at least in terms of representativeness, it does segregation based on a medical model. How will people define themselves as a medical model if they have combined disorders? How many disabled people do we have so defined? I am a member of two disabled organizations, or I do not count myself as a disabled person, I can be a disabled person, I can be someone who defines me as a disabled person, but I do not want to continue on this matter, but, of course, I want to work there as an individual, I am no official there, I am everywhere as a member and I just want to work as hard as I can. Are we going to share the disabled with the affected hands, the tetraplegics, the paraplegics, and I don't know what else? How, then, can this representativeness be determined how to sum up? In England, there was a dispute over whether disabled persons would be counted, the constitutional dispute of the invalids demanded that they not be counted; I hope that something like this will happen in our country so that they will not allow it. We also do not know what intervention has led to the law under the acquis programme, which is not what the European Union requires. This law is a function of the allocation of funds to funds for the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations. In New Slovenia, we do not want to see it cemented, but to open up opportunities. On the other hand, it is true that they co-finance those who have good programs, really good programs. We have tabled some amendments in the process, and I must say that other parliamentary groups have listened to our proposals, at least on the key points of regulation, so that the law is slightly improved and we have a little better opinion on it. The law reflects all the antagonism in the acquisition of funds, in the use of funds and in control. Fund recipients - this is where the Foundation needs to be touched because most of the funds for the operation of these organisations are provided from the Foundation - so the recipients are both operators and supervisors, decide on the acquisition of funds, the use of funds and supervision and are also beneficiaries. It's a bit controversial. Thank you. I hope, and in our Group of Members, that these things may be improved by the better functioning of foundations, that we will have somehow a better system, that we will separate citizens from ourselves for charities and humanitarian organisations or disability organisations, and that we will also have some relief from this. That the principle of the operation of foundations will be brought to life and then those who will finance it will enter and this unilateral power will be dissolved and, on the one hand, this organization - representatives of interests - will be differentiated, and operators will work on the principle of rationality, accessibility and usefulness for persons with disabilities and other affected persons. We are aware that if the law in such a dictatorship is adopted, as is now the case, the Ministry of Employment with Registration will have a huge number of problems with representativeness. So I don't envy the work that will happen to them, and there will be a lot of conflict. We have proposed some solutions that would be simpler, more acceptable to the disabled. Unfortunately, there was no such thing. Maybe we'll find another way to change. Two initiatives were submitted for legal assessment: one in the Constitutional Court and the other in the Administrative Court. In our thinking, it would be far more wise to postpone the decision of this law for perhaps a month, but by then to obtain the opinion of the Constitutional and Administrative Court, and thus to remove any shadow of the dispute. Sadly, there have been major conflicts in this marriage. I hope and wish that, in the context of the Humanitarian Organizations Act to which we have committed ourselves, or the previous session has committed itself that such a thing will not happen, because our common purpose is, however, to do as well in these difficult situations as possible for this category of people who need our attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you. And on the principle of equal opportunity, Mr Ljubo Germič, LDS, to divide your joint debate into the position of the LDS Group and then the Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the motioner, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As in the second reading, we will also support the law on disabled organisations in the Liberal Democracy Club in its third reading. So, we are talking about the law, which, according to its purpose, is, in short, in the regulation of the legal status of disability organisations and in this respect mostly of a technical nature, is certainly one of those bills which has been and is still subject to intense controversy, particularly in the works relating to representativeness and financing of disability organisations. In view of the overall aspect of disability protection, it is evident that the Disability Organisations Act cannot and will not solve and resolve all open issues and problems in this area. In fact, it will primarily regulate the status of disabled organisations and remain open to questions will fall under the domain of other laws that will need to be adopted as soon as possible. As mentioned in the Act on Equal Opportunities, the Law on the Training and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Humanitarian Organisations. Nevertheless, we believe that the amendments adopted in the second reading have clearly regulated the disputed points of the bill, which could potentially allow for misinterpretation and, for the sake of those amendments, allow for potential manipulation in relation to representativeness. In doing so, I would like to reiterate the solutions that define the issues of representativeness and the related funding of disability organisations. First time. The status of representativeness does not imply exclusiveness in the dialogue with the State. It must coordinate all open issues in the field of disability with all disability organisations that have an interest in this. All disabled organisations, irrespective of their representative status, act in the public interest. Another time. The National Council of Disability Organisations, as an association that brings together representative and other disability organisations operating at national level, must be open to all organisations meeting the conditions laid down by the law on disability organisations and all members of this Council shall be equal. Third time. The status of the disability organisation is not an exclusive condition for the acquisition of public funds to be allocated on the basis of the quality and extent of the programmes or content declared. And the fourth time. Representation does not constitute a pre-receiving advantage in obtaining funds from foundations of disabled and humanitarian organisations, as all disability organisations must have the same starting point in obtaining funding from foundations. As I have already mentioned, the Disability Organisations Act only partially solves all open issues and problems in the field of disability. For example, the acquisition of financial resources within the framework of the Foundation of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Disability Organisations Act can only be defined from a limited perspective which ensures equal opportunities for all disabled organisations. Aware of the limitations in the law on disability organisations in this and other matters, we believe that it is necessary to examine and amend the law on property transformation of the Slovenian Lottery and other laws and regulations to regulate the composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in such a way that recipients of funds within the Foundation do not have a majority in it, and to regulate matters by pre-empting all potential [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Basics. [[...]] As I have already mentioned at the outset and despite these concerns, we will support the law at the Liberal Democracy Club in the third reading. We will also support the Government's amendment to Article 29 of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you. We are now moving on to a debate between individuals, Members of Parliament and Members. I will give first word to Stanislav Brenčič, who is also reported to be cancelling at the moment. That's why I give the word to Mario Gasparini. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone. So, when we first got this law under consideration and that was years ago, I thought that in this House we would actually accept by consensus that there would not be so much division between each other. Well, that's what happened and it's going on. I think some people are actually still kind of "smokin'" this situation forward. It is true, however, that we have two lines in these disability organisations. We know that. It also appeared at the time of the referendum: one and the other have been invited - I mean these signatures, they have been gathered and so on for the referendum. Then it didn't happen. We are also manipulating this in this House. Disability organizations, I look at them so they should be arranged so that we're all in favour. Not that we've been fighting here and fighting for years. In general, we now have this law before us, and today I am hearing that in fact the main objective of this law is to make these organisations representative organisations, that this is the main part of this law. I don't think so. This law has some 40 articles, of which only 7 speak of representativeness. This is said to be the case with 30 articles talking about something else, and this is probably also important for these organisations. Then I heard a little earlier about these conflicts. They're slow. But conflicts within the disability organizations themselves, those we have today are present, I admit. But it's just one big conflict, it's a money dispute, so it's a financial conflict. I shouldn't say that to me - I shouldn't say that I don't care, but I'm so hurt by it that it's just the way things are going with organizations, that we're not just the same opinion, but that we're raising some of them up from this house, that they're right, for others we think they're wrong and so on. I personally go with those I think are more representative than others. Those who tell us that they have a huge majority of the disabled. The other Members, if you also want political groups, actually stick with those who are in the minority, that is how they declare themselves. I don't think that's good for this law. I really don't know what's gonna happen next. I can see that this is where the main problem of finance is that these people can organize themselves and work well. We need to look at their programs, and we need to look at what they've done so far. I think the main problem is, in fact, who shares this cake, who gets a bigger piece. We have the opportunity to propose a new board of directors or what it is called, which then also performs this function of allocation of funds. On their part, we always get an answer: if a disability organisation has an honest, acceptable programme, then this programme is financed. And I think the ministry sees it that way too. And you probably know that they've told us many times that they're doing it. This is said to take into account the programmes provided by the individual disability organisation. Well, let's hope so, I hope it continues. Well, as we say, now the board of directors will probably change. We have suggestions that we will now choose new members and see what happens there. Of course, I see the main problem myself in the rulebook, which then determines the composition of this committee or what it is. Since there is then a vote and so on, and here is the problem in this regulation and this should be replaced, this should be done. I do not think that the law here should determine how the financial means will be shared, but the rules of the game should be written in the rules and also adhere to those rules. So, I'm going to support this law myself, because I think it's been on the agenda for years, because we've had it on the table many times before, and put it down, and I think it's about time that it's settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the bill as a whole. On the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.11.2002, we will also discuss the articles and the amendments tabled to this Article. First, I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Who wants a word? Comrade Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. So we have re tabled this amendment, with a clear purpose to ensure investment, as well as the establishment of a disability company, the institution. So all those institutions, all those associations that are intended for activity, but not for profit on the market, this is a clear message from this. In view of all the complications we have had in Slovenia, I would strongly recommend that this amendment be adopted. The current state of affairs for disabled companies is also preserved by this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on Article 8? I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I raised my hand earlier because I wanted to add something in my name, given the time we had. However, I will take advantage of this in this article, which I do not support as such, because an organisation which does not intend to acquire something, and with regard to Article 7, which clearly defines these requirements, is, I think, this amendment, by its own discretion, because it is already clear in Articles 7 and 8 of the case as regards the establishment of disabled companies in the common interest. However, I would like to say the following about this. For example, I don't think this law has caused any conflict. They were slow. It's democratic that people just unite and change. The most important thing is that this is voluntary. I will personally say that because I am disabled, and I am not a member of any organization, I will say that many people who have personal bodily or other defects have not gone to the committee to be recognized. This is freedom for me, it is democratic for me, but if people with disabilities want to be stronger than I said on behalf of the Group of Members, they should unite, unify in their desires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you. We ask that we pay attention to time lapses. Anybody else want some? Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u134	Mr. Kebrich, I'd like to replicate. See, if you look at the structure of income or resources, the acquisition of funds for humanitarian, charitable or disability. None of those he donates will give to make them invest in the future. Everyone gives for a purpose. And that's the way it is. However, as you will set aside some money and invest it in another company, it will be wrong because it will not be for that purpose, because it was for the purpose of making a profit. None of them will give you that. And that's a principle, a principle that should be followed. Even in our country, when we don't have these standards set, we don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you. No one wants to discuss any more, so I am concluding the debate under Article 8 and moving on to Article 27 and the Government's amendment to Article 27. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate under Article 27 and the amendment. Article 29 and the amendment of the Government to Article 29. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I also conclude the debate under Article 29 and this debate on Articles. We will vote on the amendments and the bill in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today at 7 p.m. and 45 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. At 3:05, we will continue on the 16th item of the agenda. Until then, we'll take a break. Thank you very much for your cooperation with the representatives of the government and all of you for your discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u136	- 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S ON Thirdly, a proposal for a law on the implementation of the Rayna Action Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome in our midst the representatives of the government, the Secretary of State, Mrs Alenko Kovšca, and the Minister's adviser, Mrs Vlasto Rozman, and give the floor to Mrs Alenka Kovšca's further explanation. Please, you have five minutes to introduce yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Surely we have a law before us that may not have received the necessary attention in the public eye, but it governs the scope of care for children whose parents do not know, are unable, or are unwilling to care properly. This law will give us one of those acts whose primary purpose is to raise this activity to a higher quality level, so we rightly expect your support. As has already been explained in the drafting of the law, the proposal for a law on the implementation of foster care operationalises the content of the work and tasks of all those involved in foster care activities: foster parents, foster parents or foster parents, their biological families and social work centres. The draft law lays down the conditions to be met by the person wishing to carry out the maintenance activity, the authorisation procedure, the procedure and the conditions for carrying out the activities as a profession, certain standards, define the duties of foster parents and the tasks of social work centres in carrying out this activity. When preparing the law and assessing the cost structure, we took into account the material costs for the resident of 40% of the average adult expenditure calculated on 1.1.2002, which takes into account consumer and non-consumer goods. On the basis of the current proposal for a law for an individual breeder, the breeder is entitled to 48,586 tolars and 18,870 tolars in the amount of the allowance for the lowest income class for the first child, totalling 67,456 tolars. In an analysis of the price of standard institutional protection services for children and adolescents with disabilities in physical and mental development, it was found that the assessment of the necessary funds for expenditure on goods and services resulting from the implementation of the first six months of 2001, in these institutions 67,654 tolars per child or at the recognition of the growth of funds for material costs in 2002 72,398. In doing so, I would like to point out that in this case it goes to institutions for children who, under the Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act, are entitled to an allowance of SIT 18,000 and SIT 36,000. This means, therefore, that our proposal for recognition of care is minimally different from the assessment of the price of material costs for children in these institutions or that the foster parents who need special care are also entitled to the above-mentioned supplements. We will need additional EUR 274 million at the annual level to implement the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. At the time of the discussion, you will be warned by the clock and sound signal and reported: LDS 5 minutes, SDS 5 minutes, Consolidated List 5 minutes, SLS 5 minutes, Nova Slovenija 10 minutes and Slovenian National 10 minutes, government 5 minutes, so try to hold on to these times. We will now give the full floor to the parliamentary groups to present their views on the draft law. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Silva Montenegro for the position of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-known, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Alenka Kovšca and her co-worker! Today, we have before us a law that systematically regulates the implementation of fostering activities that have been dispersed and dealt with in part in the law on marriage and family relations and in part in the law on social protection. In Slovenia, there are currently 500 foster families and about 1,275 children living in Slovenia, while in five training institutions and seventeen educational institutions more than 1,380 children have been installed, so much more important that this material is so arranged, as it would be estimated that in the event that fostering would not be so well expanded and with such a long tradition, 16 new institutions would be needed in Slovenia and that the state budget would be much more burdened than the state budget this year for the implementation of this law, as the state would provide a well billion 600 million tolars. We support the law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats because it clearly defines the conditions and standards that must be met by those who want to carry out foster activities. The law also remembers the duty and role of social work centres in the process of obtaining status or authorisation to carry out fostering activities. It is also important that the Ministry's clearly defined competences in record-keeping also lay down training, as only training ensures the quality of care activities. The law also lays down the conditions under which the operation ceases to be carried out by a parent. This law also regulates the conditions and procedures for carrying out professional care activities, defines the register at the Ministry of Personal Data, the date of commencement and the date of termination of the breeding activity as a profession. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we think it is particularly important to have a chapter that regulates the financing of fostering activities, as this in some ways enables and preserves activities. It defines and increases the current costs to 48,586 tolars. After this law, foster parents will also receive the child allowance set for the lowest income class for the first child, which currently amounts to 18,870 tolars. For a good five thousand dollars, there will also be an increase in the payment of work for a foster parent who will amount to 22,000 tolars. We have heard a lot about individual solutions and the reasons for certain legal definitions from the Secretary of State and there is little to say here, except perhaps for the wishes of all of us in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, so that this law is actually adopted as soon as possible. The law also defines the difference between professional and non-professional foster parents. This is also because the State is paying a contribution to health and pension insurance of 54,000 tolars. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you. I give my word to my colleague, Franz Tsukati, for the position of the Socialists of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! This is certainly an important matter, for if a country can step up to help children who have symbolically lost their parents in one way or another, it is certainly an opportunity for a foster family. This cannot be compared to the quality and welfare of the child. In that, I hope, we're all alone. I repeat the thesis, which I have mentioned once before, that even if the welfare activity for the country were more expensive, the state should give priority to it compared to the institution's treatment. So we are certainly glad to see that this area is being improved. At the same time, we note that the law justifiably imposes new requirements on foster parents, namely the requirement of professional or professional education, the requirement of completion, education at least every five years and also requires, in addition to all things, an appropriate material basis that can be provided to the children. Article 31 states that in the preparation of the evaluation of the centres for the social work of the breeder, it shall determine the appropriateness of the living conditions of the whole family and, in particular, of the premises and equipment intended for the child or the children he has received as a caregiver. So he also has to take care of the proper room with furniture and so on. Then, of course, an amendment was adopted at the previous meeting with the number 44,000, which was intended to cover the material costs of the Ombudsman, which, of course, raised the costs by the poor four thousand, explaining that the costs of non-consuming goods must also be taken into account, which, of course, the rooms and equipment certainly are. For four grand to provide a proper room and equipment, I can't imagine. It can only be a tent in the garden. Surely there is still an unfair relationship: at the same time, the state requires an appropriate material standard for the foster parent and, on the other hand, does not recognise these costs or ridiculously low costs. Deplorablely low costs. You know very well that the student room is 20,000 tolars or something, but not a bad four grand, gentlemen. As we have heard, the material costs of the factory supply are recognised to be significantly higher. This year, they'd be estimated at over 80,000 per inmate. Therefore, we find it somewhat insulting that our amendment, which we proposed at the time, was not adopted at the level of 62,000. And still here is actually one symbolic insulting decision to recognise material costs only at the level of 48,000 tolars. I believe that here, however, the negative attitude towards such care is expressed, a relationship which, of course, does not mean anything for the budget, but means for symbolism and for the symbolic attitude of our country towards the better quality of care of the children.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by colleague Stanislav Brenčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Of course, our Group of Members will also support the law in the third. I think it's a good solution. We will also support the proposed amendment to Article 51. Without talking now about the amount of resources to be recognised as material costs to a foster parent, the proposal operated by the proposer is too low. So let's not compare the cost that the state has with the foster child, if it's in the institution or if it's in the foster care and if we don't compare the quality of the human personality, if it's in the foster care or if it's in the institution. We will therefore support the amendment to Article 51 in order to recognise the amount of material resources for the Ombudsman of 62,000. We certainly support the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party, declared Victory Jelinčič, is not available. Position of New Slovenia, colleague Janez Drobnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u145	Hello, representatives of the government and others present! As has already been said, fostering in Slovenia has tradition, we have many foster families, and it is good that as many as possible who cannot live with their biological parents can live in a pleasant home environment and not in a factory environment. This has proved to be a better solution in the world and in us. Are these material stimulations appropriate or not, or is it a billion 600 and something like I'm aware of - because it is so or not? - whether it's large or small enough for children who are given into foster families. Yeah, you could say that's a big deal, but if you compare the awards in Elan, which were over a billion people for the five people who split that money next to each other's salary, this thing gets a completely different meaning and a different dimension. There seems to be no such outbreak or criticism for those awards that favor Slovenia. Yeah, all things are relative. In short, we have also tabled an amendment that takes more account of material costs. It is probably a fundamental decision and a key decision for a foster family to adopt a child, not material stimulation, need a tendency, need feelings, need a warm relationship, need a sense of such activity. Of course, it is not possible to build modern parenting activities in Slovenia only on these attributes, on these assumptions. For an activity which is otherwise to be undertaken by the State and taken over by the State, it is necessary to provide them with an appropriate compensation which must meet the material costs for all that is necessary for life. In order to obtain a comparison, we asked the Ministry of Labour to provide us with information on how much these costs are comparable in institutions, in institutions where there is no need for additional treatment, either educational or rehabilitation, for physical or other harm. But somehow there was no answer. Of course, I was not satisfied with that. Now some additional information has come to the table, but comparisons still don't, so we'd have a better view. I don't mean to say that all the things that are have to be represented equally. We know that in foster families certain services are provided with external operators and we need to include such activities in the overall cost. But for a complete comparison, it would be good if we got it. Training is necessary, but there is a certain dilemma. Training can accomplish something, but we cannot achieve this personal sense, a personal sense. These children do not need a highly professional treatment, they need a warm hearth and a good reception of families - what is usually in modern families problem, not professional treatment of the child, but acceptance, to feel it in a human way! This is the case, and that is why special care may be particularly affected in children who have special needs, but it will come, or we must strive to provide children with such an environment, so that they can learn about the authentic roles that will benefit them in their integration into the next life or in the formation of their own family. We must also be aware of the importance of healthy families with healthy relationships, which offer a warm environment for our youngest and slightly older. We will not oppose the bill in the parliamentary group and support it, of course, with the desire to adopt our proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. I now give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. First of all, Mrs. Stanislavi Stopar, LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to come out of this town because I have you all in front of me, thank you. So in the second reading of the law on reproductive activity, I underlined the importance of this law on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group. The activities of fostering with a decade-long tradition have moved through this law into a higher quality, which goes to the benefit of every child who is placed in a foster family. The implementation of the law will give effect to the initiative of all those involved in fostering, this is to define this in a specific law. We are aware that all the wishes of those involved in this activity are probably not fulfilled in this law. However, by adopting the second reading amendment to the second paragraph of Article 51, which is covered by the third reading, it has been ensured that the ratios of material assets and those treated in the same manner by law, such as the Social Protection Act and the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, are maintained. So these are some of the same criteria compared to both laws. The amendment to Article 51 cannot therefore be supported in the Group of Members. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia support this law on fostering activities sent by the Government to the third hearing, because it establishes a system of arrangements for the implementation of fostering activities, with the main aim of providing the child entering the foster family with the most appropriate treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you. As an individual who has been announced, does Comrade Petty Officer want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Brenčič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much. In the case of foster care, we are talking about a fate that marked a particular child. We're talking about the people, the foster parents, who have some content inside of them, that they've gone to these kids. You can't pay for this mission. I have talked about this with a number of foster parents, including Dr. Brain, and there is arguing about whether, in terms of the recognition of material costs, we are going to break a relationship that has somehow escaped from social protection. There is no money to reward this good deed. However, it is good that this prize, recognised material costs, is as high as the approach of these foster parents in this respect. The foster parents do not take this child into foster care as an exit in a material sense. They accept him as their own. More. The contents somehow tell them that they're doing the difference in plus, in favor of this child. When I talk to Dr. Brain, that's how it is. And I'm sure in a lot of cases, that's the way it is. The foster parents offer not only what is a basket after calculating the material costs of a family member, to the child, but everything else. However, this cost for the country is still at least twice as low as the cost if the resident is in the institution. I repeat, therefore, that our parliamentary group will support, according to the cost it represents in the state budget, given the size of the children, a good 20 million somewhere. What if I thought that we had adopted a new amendment to the law on victims of war violence today, and that cost is nearly ten times the equivalent? There's no problem, but there's no comparison. But it's the fate of people who don't do this materially well for them, but go ahead, their grandkids. But this is the fate of the children she marked. Good people have joined in turning this fate into good. Therefore, let us not barter for these 20,000 or even less, at material costs. Our Group of Members will certainly support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. I think it is my duty to clarify, given that the two debaters have already discussed the share of the costs. I must say that, while this relates to the explanation of the amendment to Article 51, I must report already that the calculation is wrong. It's 265 million 500 thousand, not 22 million, as it says here, because this number hasn't been multiplied by 12 months. This is more than once as much as it is about increasing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.11.2002. I am putting to the debate Article 51 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Who wants a word? Mrs. Stanislava Stopar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Given the time I have left, I'd like to use those moments. I come from an area where the first nursing home of Lukovica began in 1928, and I believe that I know all the difficulties, the goodness of this branch of activity. So much better, because I have been teaching at the primary school for 35 years and because I have also been extremely confronted with this problem in the last 15 years. I agree that it is difficult to barter at what cost of material costs we will take or not take or reward or reward a foster child who will take the child into care - a child who has received new emotional support, at least this is for our Black Grab with Moravian Valley, where there is the most fostering, I hope to claim. However, I cannot support this amendment because I feel that I am doing wrong to many others, including families who are engaged in or raise their children and who are living in difficult material conditions in one way or another. That is why I also say in my name that I cannot accept this amendment. I appreciate the equivalent criteria, and I think that the law in article 51 with the amendment we adopted in the second reading brings us this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you. I'm giving my word to my buddy Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u155	I join my colleague, Mr Brenčič, in his opinion that it is not the most meaningful and dignified thing to do. Nevertheless, the truth must be looked into the eyes and these comparisons should also be made. So in the debate on the working body, I asked how much the average costs are for someone who is placed in a facility, how much they cost for someone who is placed in a foster family, and how much, for example, a child in a family costs, with a basket and so on. This needs to be compared in order to get some sense of where to put it. Of course, the key issue is material costs, material costs and, on the other hand, labour recognition, labour prices. If we recognize the cost of work, I don't know, three children for one full-time job, then we know what the cost is, and this cost has to be recognised. For a long time, we neglected those mothers who stayed at home and said that it was not important and we did not compare them with the work of those who worked in kindergarten. But this has to be compared. These are professions, these are identical professions, identical tasks. And that should be taken into account. Not to say, I think it is. We keep turning around on these costs, recognizing these costs. Of course, this will mean an increase; I apologize for those statements, if it is twelve months, means more than 200 million. And now I'm going to add to that when they were laughing at me in comparison, and that's what one manager got for an extra award, for all the kids who would get that much for an increase. That's it. That's the other side of the truth. But material costs are the key. Calculation of material costs, without placing your head in the sand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you. Good minute, Comrade Mario Gasparini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you, just one minute. So now we're comparing the costs of the foster family and the institution. But you don't compare the costs of the foster family to that of an ordinary family. That's what it's like to be a worker, who was on TV, who has 60,000 wages, who has one child, and a husband, say, with disabilities. Why don't you compare it? I don't mind. Mr. Brenčič, I agree with you that this is low. But it's low for those families with 60, 70,000 incomes. So you have to consider that, too. Not the office. The office has a directia. The overheads are just what they are. But if there's three, you said three, I don't know, to one foster mom that there'll be three foster parents if one foster mom has three children, multiply it by about 70,000, and you'll see it's appropriate. [[...]] It's not, because I say it's not, but it's a good income. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you. And my friend Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. It is clear what leads parents to decide for their child and what their parents expect of their child. A completely different situation was when the foster father decided to step in place of another parent or to step in like a parent to a child who had lost a parent or had been rejected by a parent. We can't put this relationship in my equation, by no means. Me as a parent to my child, whom I chose, because I thought it was in me, and me as a foster father to the child I saw there, that he lost his parents and I took him as a parent. This cannot be compared in costs. No! No! And what can a parent expect from his child, and what can a foster father expect from a foster father during his old days? It's all part of this content and we can't put it in the equation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article and the amendment? As no, I conclude the debate on Article 51 and the amendment to this Article. The amendment and the article and the bill will be decided in accordance with the meeting's timetable today at 7.45 p.m. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the meeting until the beginning of the 17th agenda item, which will be held at 3.55 p.m. Until then, a short break. Thank you very much to the representatives of the government, Mrs Kovšca and Rosmanov, and to all of you for your discussion and cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u161	We continue with the session of the National Assembly. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in Culture. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first signed Majdo Shirca. I therefore give the floor first to the representative of the group of candidates of Mrs Majdi Shirca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We're in the third reading of the so-called cultural tolar law. In fact, we are reading before that in a second reading of a closed marriage. However, a number of other proposals have emerged, including in the third. The fact that themes or needs constantly open up to us not to say so in some cases is certainly an indication, on the one hand, that the requirements for addressing, above all, infrastructure issues in the field of culture are really acute. On the other hand, it also bears witness in part that Members are warmed up, not to say sensitive, for those interventions that they prefer to regulate in their midst, even though they are not yet on a priority plan. Thus, we have several amendments from precisely defined environments and have already been defined in transitional procedures, but it is no big deal if we comment on them again. We believe that we would not be spreading the so far-planned and also with the government and government-acceptable common destiny. In this context, we would not support or support seven new proposals extending a total of EUR 29 billion 319,000 for a good 500 million. But there is another reason for disapproval or non-support for these additional amendments. Let me just give you a few framework criteria for the evaluation or for the definition of additional amendments to the additional seven cases tabled. In some cases, the government is already launching activities for the most urgent rehabilitation, while there are still no decisive steps where the object’s purpose or method of use would have been completed. If I give as an example the Dornava castle here. In other cases, adequate use programmes have not yet been developed and the municipalities have not yet reached their intentions. If I give the Lantjeri Castle in Vipava or Slap in Vipava for example, it's called the Lože Castle. Secondly, in the municipality of Poland, the property is privately owned and is not provided with adequate destination, as the professional services say. The castle in Slovenska Bistrica is owned by the State, but it has to be said that it is gradually being remedied within the Ministry of Culture’s regular funding. The Church of St. Josepha in Slovenska Bistrica is also of the opinion that the professional services are not at risk of construction; the renovation of equipment can also be carried out under the Ministry of Culture’s dedicated heading. St. George's Nightingale, St. George's Church. Martina is in the process of renovating the fresco. It is financed through a regular programme and procedures are expected to be completed in 2004. I can say that this is a number of interventions already under way within the proposed amendments, which may not have been sufficiently familiar with the amendments. In the report, I should also draw your attention to the opinion of the Legislative Assembly secretariat, the legislative legal service, which draws attention to the editorial correction that took place at the time of the awkward copy from the second to the third reading and does not change the final figures within the second table, which speaks of the approximation of the international standards for general educational libraries in the period 2004-2008, but only corrects wrongly copied numbers. I would like to point out that this is not an intervention in the tables, that no order is broken, but only the text is correctly spelled out. As I understand it, there is another amendment whose motioner has expressed his will to withdraw it, which we are likely to address in the course of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you. With us is the representative of the government, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Mr Cyril Baskovic, who gives him the floor to present the government's opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u164	Dear National Assembly, Mr. Vice President! Allow me to remind you that the proposed law actually represents a substantive continuation due to the low budgetary allocations in the period 1998-2003, barely a third of the law now in force with the same purpose. Due to the period of time, it had to be supplemented at certain points with new, more important content. I would like to say, on behalf of the competent authority and the government, that we propose or support solutions that go in the following direction: that the total amount of 29 billion 319 million should not be increased, for reasons that do not need to be specifically explained, and that the solutions that your respected assembly has already voted on in the second reading should basically be maintained. We therefore oppose the amendments, but the main argument is not that any amendment has gone against less valuable monuments, far from it. But I can assure you, and if later I have to say in more detail in the debate that most of these facilities can also be monitored in advance from the so-called regular renewal or support programme, placing them in office. In the case of libraries, however, it is an appropriate proposal that some others could be included on this list, but in combination with regular resources, so we believe that in this area, even in 2008, most of the things voted in Slovenia can be managed in a satisfactory manner so that we can develop and support this overall network of knowledge, information, culture and information society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you. We're moving on to a full review of the law. Representatives of the parliamentary groups shall have the texts. I give the floor first to the representative of the United List of Social Democrats; instead of Sam Bevk, Mrs Majda Potrate will give it to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The Group of the Joint List of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture for the period 2004 to 2008. Let me explain this position. The basic law, which will expire next year, will realise 36.3% of the planned budget, including the 2003 budget. This is why the three members of the UN Social Democrats first drafted a proposal to extend the validity of the law until 2005, but then withdrawn it, since Sam Bevk, on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats, is a co-proposal of the present proposal, extending the duration of the law, while at the same time extending in substance through the four programmes so far and with an additional five programming framework, this is the promotion of cultural networks in the field of publishing, cinematography and modern information technology over the next five years. The reasons for such a decision are not significantly different from those of 1998 when the basic law with a two-thirds majority was adopted in the National Assembly. The priority remains to regulate the basic premises for certain central public cultural institutions. In the last 20 years, some major investments have been made, especially in some regional centres, while the central cultural institutions have remained spatially sealed. It is therefore not surprising that half of the funds envisaged are allocated to this programming set. In particular, I should like to point out that much remains unfulfilled in this context under the basic law. And this should be considered as a priority. Cultural heritage is a fundamental constitutional part of national and national identity. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia obliges the country to take care of the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage and to create opportunities for the harmonious, civilisational and cultural development of Slovenia. It also requires local communities to take care of the preservation of cultural heritage. This concern and obligation is also imposed on our country by a number of international legal regulations, because heritage is not the property of only one nation and one generation, but of the global community and of all past and future generations to which we are responsible for our work and conduct. In order to adequately protect the heritage, we need to provide additional budgetary resources so that the decline of cultural monuments does not continue. More than 100 monuments are on the list of the proposed novel of the law: archeological, castle, sacral, fortification, defence, technical and historical monuments, old city cod and village nuclei, monasteries, memorial houses and outdoor museums. It is particularly important that they come from all parts of Slovenia. Slovenian librarianship reaches a high professional level in regulation and business. Libraries have achieved it mainly in the organisation of business and the introduction of modern technologies. However, Slovenian libraries are far behind in achieving international standards in the annual flow of books to residents and to spatial capacity. There is too much difference between what is actually needed and what is actually available for the activities of libraries. For this reason, the funds provided for the purchase of books and for biblioons, and in particular for significantly increased funding for library information, as well as investment funds provided for under the second programming framework for the approximation of international standards in librarianism and thus better qualified to carry out the tasks that libraries have in lifelong learning, are more than justified. This should confirm that in 2000, for example, our citizens and citizens borrowed 19 million books. Maintaining the attainment of the level of development of amateur culture and equating development standards across local communities remain among the vital programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. Lovemaking is a fundamental basis in all Slovenian cultural tradition for the general cultural standard of people and for professional culture. According to the Association of Cultural Associations, about 2,500 cultural societies operate in Slovenia. There are hundreds of thousands of people involved. If I come from the right to culture, which is a fundamental human right, this can be achieved in the most basic form, at the level of individual activities in culture and at the level of individual activities as the addressee of cultural activities, in the cultural culture itself. In Slovenian conditions, for example in choir singing, it often achieves quality surpluses and excellence in addition to all other positive effects. Without this basis, it is not possible to imagine national cultural identity and a highly developed and pluralistic cultural lover can compete with the strong influences of foreign cultures. Cultural networks, as a short term termed the fifth programming set, are also important for protecting Slovenian cultural space within globalisation flows and for making cultural goods more accessible in the field of publishing, new media and film art. As a result of our experience in implementing the basic law and ensuring the share of local communities in individual programmes, we support the way investment is financed so far. This is 50% of the value unless otherwise specified for individual projects. This percentage refers, of course, to the share of the country. Finally, I should like to point out that the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will strive to ensure that the planned budgetary resources are provided and that the implementation will be higher at the end of this law than the existing implementation of the basic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you. I now give the floor to the SLS Group and to my colleague, Janez Spodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you, Vice President. It is understandable that I will say here that the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, in third reading. I have already talked about the content of the support here a few weeks ago in this place, namely the relation to some amendments. We know that the applicants must give their views to the amendments, and in most cases I will follow the position as stated by the first-signed colleague of Shirca. During the last month, a very large book with a beautiful envelope, called the Analysis of the state of culture and the proposal for priority objectives, came into the parliamentary group quite quietly. Large-scale material, I'd say, is a lot of work from the cultural ministry. You may be surprised, colleagues and colleagues, but in the parliamentary group we decided to process this material, but it is very much related to the content of this law, especially the area on page 312 ahead, this is an analysis of the state of protection of cultural heritage and archival materials - immovable cultural heritage, movable cultural heritage, archive material. We'll be a little critical about that, too. However, if you are delayed, you can look at our customer’s website, where some views have already been written down. When we thought in the parliamentary group about how the National Assembly would escort cultural toll 2 into life, we concluded that we would suggest to our colleagues and colleagues that we should consider some more legislative moves in the coming months that would give greater weight to this law. The first of our proposals is to follow European practice, so that even in Slovenia next year, when we adopt a comprehensive law, we will provide financial relief to the owners of cultural monuments. If we do this in this mandate, we're going to do a lot of things, and we're actually going to put an end to the cultural tolar 2. This is said to provide financial relief to the owners of cultural monuments by law. If we put this into effect, we believe that there will also be a great deal of interest in the professional maintenance of cultural monuments. This would also enrich or encourage cultural excellence. In Slovenia, this phenomenon is not supported enough, but it is very positive and the whole world knows how to develop it. This material, which is also related to the material of the law that we have before us, says in the works of the Ministry of Culture that "the State and most municipalities do not have mechanisms to support the regular maintenance of monuments and heritage". That's a pretty black eyed conclusion. They are mechanisms, and the question is how much they are exploited. In fact, if there are no mechanisms, then the question is also raised whether the protection requirements for individual cultural monuments are respected. We are very pleased that in the last year the efforts of the cultural ministry have also been greatly strengthened to include Franjo hospital on the UNESCO list. However, we have an additional proposal: because the architect Plečnik is practically one of those Slovenian artists who is truly famous and recognized worldwide to try to protect all his works even more legally. The third issue, which is related to the movable heritage - our law is touching slightly more marginally, but it is still - in this place, we would like to point out that unfortunately in recent years it has gone abroad on a legal or illegal path many such heritage. [[Of course, I'm talking about a moving heritage.]] . And there's something else. It is a question of how in a country where we have established a market social model of economics through law and constitution - some might say that this is a capitalist model - how this model is such that, while the capitalist economic system is in operation, the immovable and movable cultural heritage is still protected. I'm closing with the archivist. In the field of archivistism, the state has shown a little more interest only, unfortunately, in the mass search for documents relating to denationalisation and some other similar matters, while unfortunately for older materials there is little understanding. Too many funds remain unprocessed and thus not available for study. We hope that at least some of the financial items of the law, which I am sure will be adopted by a large majority, will allow this older material to be processed very well. As we say, our parliamentary group supports the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian national party would be followed, but there is no colleague of the winner, Jelinčič Plmenite, and we would therefore conclude the presentations on the positions of the members of the groups. We are moving on to the consideration of the bill by Members and Members. First, I give the floor to Maria Ana Tisovic, Nova Slovenija. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u170	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members of the Government! This amendment of the law legalizes the transfer of the implementation of programmes, certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, whose implementation was envisaged from 1998 to 2003, to the period 2004 to 2008. These programmes were not implemented in the original period of almost two thirds. These are mainly programmes in the field of archaeology, old city nuclei, cod and village settlements, castles, castles, castles, churches and other cultural monuments, as well as the purchase of books and information on libraries, the improvement of cultural infrastructure and the financing of amateur culture. Here I would like to draw attention to the shortcomings that are still in the tables: where specific sums are given, there is no item intended for the lovers' culture of Slovenians around the world. The paper also promotes a new programme to promote the distribution of art film and to promote new media and improve the position of publishing. The financing of investment in cultural property is intended to provide 50% of the state budget and 50% of the municipality. However, I do not know whether the new funding of the municipalities will provide enough money for all municipalities to finance and implement the programmes. The bill, I believe, needs to be supported because, according to the programme that was postponed from 1998 to 2003, the work was necessary in 1998 when we adopted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you. I'd give my word to my colleague, Franz Puksic, but he's not here. That's why I'm giving the word to Jozet Auschwitz. Instead, Mrs. Lydia Majnik. [[The voices in the background.]] [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll move forward in order. Janez Spodnik. Does he want to discuss it again? [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Miha Brac, you want to discuss it as announced? At the amendment. Thank you. Here comes Mrs. Lydia Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In fact, in my debate, I would like to express only regret that we have not already adopted the Cultural Tolar Act at the previous meeting, as the conditions have been met in my opinion. The problem was only an editorial correction in the summary of all five tables, where the total amounts were correctly recorded, and the dynamics and level of the annual resources for librarying in Table 2 were written wrongly and not summarised on the Committee on Education, Culture, Science and Sport of the adopted amendment, which we then confirmed at the meeting of the National Assembly last month. It may be understood from the committee's magnetogram that I have already warned the committee that it is necessary to adopt the amendment to Table 2 to take due account of it in the summary of all the Annexes to the Act. For these reasons and for other reasons, I also do not support the newly tabled amendments, which reopen the whole law. However, I particularly regret the non-admission of the law last month because it simultaneously prepared and designed the 2004 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The law will enter into force in 2004. Since it has not yet been adopted, the Ministry of Culture has not incorporated it into its financial programme. It would require an additional 4.5 billion tolars to meet it. At least I am pleased that the government has taken the LDS initiative to correct the 2004 budget of 600 million to cover a piece of the law, counting that the rebalancing will, of course, comply with the law that we are going to adopt in this session, on this firmly. Of course by editing a summary of annexes or tables. The summary, on its own behalf, is the synthesis of all individual tables and the annual dynamics of all necessary funds must be the same as the annual dynamics of each table annexed to the law. These errors are also not corrected by the legislative legal service for third reading. The correction we have only received summarizes table 2 already adopted, but not corrects the summary of all the tables where the final amounts for each activity are correct, but is not the correct calculation or sum of the annual dynamics. The data for the field of librarianism are wrongly recorded. I therefore propose that the synthesis of all these tables be carried out in the edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you. It's Jože Jerovšek's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture is, by title, by content and by purpose of written praise. However, I would expect it to deal with an equal whole territory and the whole Republic of Slovenia, cultural monuments present throughout the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, I have to find out or have found out in my previous consideration that this is not the case in the present law. Here I may have mistakenly relied that from where I come from, the Secretary of State was also present from the United List and that this will be his natural concern to warn the drafters of this law that they must treat all regions, all cultural monuments or cultural monuments equally according to their rankings, according to the value of cultural heritage. That is why I have to find that, for example, the municipality of Slovenske Bitrice, which is the largest or largest municipality in Slovenia and occupies an extremely large territory, is extremely well-fed. Cultural heritage, cultural monuments from this area are practically not present in this law. In the predecessor of this law, only the Student Monastery, and also the Student Monastery, in the present reality, was significantly lower than the national average, restored, maintained. For this reason, I cannot possibly accept some of the arguments that have been put here by the applicants, because, for the first time, they are incorrect, secondly, and that they are not a candidate, nor does the Government object to the fact that the proposal for a law is drafted in this direction in order to be equal to all. I insist that it follows from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and from natural law that the entire territory of the Republic deserves equal treatment. You can't do it anyway. We in the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica do not blame that in this area there is an extraordinary density of first-class cultural monuments. Instead of treating this country equally and it would also be treated as a good country, according to such a law the millstone around the neck of the municipality, on which the burden and its inhabitants pass, is abnormally high shares in the maintenance and maintenance of these monuments, which are intended for the entire Slovenian space and all citizens of Slovenia, as well as others. For this reason, I have put some amendments into the procedure and I must say that Mrs Širca has given completely incorrect information that, say, the castle of Lower Poland is privately owned. That's not true, it's in municipal property, so objectively speaking, it's state owned. Nor are the exact indications on the construction of the non-arms if the roof is already found somewhere and so on. Some of these monuments, such as the castle of Slovenska Bistrica, are certainly among the most important examples of flat castles in Slovenia or at all, the largest and most luxurious for the current architecture and, of course, on this side is also the most demanding for maintenance. The State has done little or contributed disproportionately to the restoration of the monument of the Study, which is still in a very critical state, which was based on the previous cultural toll, and is also taking an equal discriminatory approach in this law. I hope that both the proponents and the government will realize that it simply cannot be that one area in the territory of Slovenia is grey foxes, although historical facts have led us to a crossroads, at the crossroads where the Roman roads lead to the east, to the north, and that this has always been an infrastructure of one of the most frequent areas. This has also resulted in the creation of extremely rich cultural monuments. That is why I appeal to the Members that some of these programmes - I do not expect them to be everyone, because they should also include the library of Slovenska Bistrica, but they are not supposed to be open - but they are voted. But I expect some sense of reality and evenness and that some of these proposals that I have tabled will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We have a replica in between, Mrs. Majda Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek! We are facing a law that is the title of the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. We do not have before us a law that provides resources for even, for all countries, regions and spaces in Slovenia, even distributions, but for those who are detected as necessary by the proponents and the professional public. As for two castles or two proposals, which you say I did not specify them, let me state the opinion of the Slovenian administration on cultural heritage, which runs the Polish municipality under number 6916 and says: the facility is privately owned and is not provided with adequate destination. Castle Slovenska Bistrica below 663: the castle is owned by the country, continuous reconstruction is already under way, all exterior fronts and roof are being renovated, and the port is being renovated. At the same time, the Ministry of Culture has, in its regular programme and in its budget item under: ownership of RS, Republic of Slovenia, monuments, funds already provided for further renovation of the facility, which it carries out in close cooperation with the Institute for Culture of Slovenska Bistrica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you. The replica was due to your unilateral statement. You had a debate. But there's no replica to the replica. But you'll have a chance to discuss it. I'll give the order now. You also have time to debate as a parliamentary group. Tone Partich, he's not here. The following would be Mrs Majda Shirca's list. [[He doesn't want to.]] Joseph Scholch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Here a good point has been made that this is a law that speaks of certain urgent programmes to finance this cultural deficit. Now I would ask you to pay attention to this word as you walk through various amendments and, of course, also through the basic text of the law. That there will be no misunderstanding, I myself support the increase in funds for culture, both through the budget and through this law. I will first use this debate to say that that amendment, which is listed as the last and which is the amendment of the LDS Group of Members, is not taken into account for the vote because the Group of Members withdrew it because it has not reached the necessary level of agreement on the content of the amendment. Nevertheless, I will say, through this text, that there are certain things I believe to be said under this law. I myself believe that the actions of the National Assembly and the Ministry cannot make this declaratory difference in the concern for culture and concrete moves in individual laws. This has not yet happened in the National Assembly in order to have an important debate that would oppose culture. However, it happens regularly, both in the actions of the National Assembly, in various situations and here, as well as in the government's actions, that there is a significant gap between this declarational concern and concrete decisions. The amendment, which is not valid, is, I'll say, exactly such an example. I would like to draw some projects, namely the Cerkne branch of the Idrija Library, the general-education library in Montenegro, the general-education library in Šentjur, the general-education library, also in Velenje, Domžal and Brežice. All of this should be deleted for two reasons. For the reason that the law speaks of certain central institutions in the field of culture and because the Ministry of Culture has prepared a document based on my question on the Committee on Culture and, therefore, it was not reasonable to adopt a law in the third reading until we had this reply, because it is clear that these facilities are not of central importance, as envisaged by the Law on Librarianism and as provided by the Ministry of Culture in the list. That is, I will say, the point of my regret that the ministry does not act consistently in this great support it has in the National Assembly. This is not a speech, I will say against these four projects, because all of these four projects can be derived from the so-called regular funds or from the compensatory programmes for the municipalities. Takas has also acted in recent years and I could count to you more than ten libraries of this type that have been realized in this way. Why do I regret that? Because of this, it allows for a principled policy - and if culture does not also cultivate some principle in politics - we allow it to be in all solutions, and this is not just this law's problem, it affects this long period of local interests and their intermediaries, while ignoring certain central national issues. Here you have these things listed as urgent, but you will see that, through a variety of decisions, it is not necessarily possible to count the construction of the National University Library, if we are talking about libraries, that it is not a central problem to consider the problems of the State Archives as a central archive, which is a cap for the entire network of Slovenian archivists, and that it is not possible, for example, as a major national problem, to count the problems of the three Academyes, AGRFTs and so on, the music academy and ALU. Perhaps it is, for example, a book rental in a newly formed congregation. This is wrong and painful for cultural policy. This is why, of course, the world as a result of a number of other things will not fail, but it speaks of this rift that I have been talking about, which is driven by me, I must say nevertheless, incomprehensible and irrationalimperative that in fact all institutions are the same. As if we are not aware that the need for national institutions, national dramas, if you want to talk about this law, national museums, national archives, has also arisen in the field of culture. And here we are always talking about a dichotomy between the center and the periphery, between Ljubljana and I don't know who. There is a difference between the Ljubljana institutions and other institutions, but national institutions must be considered after all. And my guess is that there's not enough thinking about national institutions. If we're talking about some emergency programs, then yes, for God's sake, let's say those three or four things that sit together, so to speak, so to speak, that we don't talk about monuments and so on. So, borekel, from these amendments and from these, someone will say the necessary compromises, the necessary voice purchases we will make a network of investments in Slovenia, and the engine or heart of these institutions will be left in bad condition. And that seems like a lack of kind of decision-making. From this point of view, I then understand that everything focuses on the discussions, as did my colleague Jerovšek, because there is no reason that there would not be a library in Slovenia Bistrica, if there could be a library branch in Cerknem, for example. There's no reason. And there is also no reason for everyone not to bring everything up if it isn't, I will say, it was possible for marriagemakers, where I consider myself to some extent, to serve with what are really the central problems. The whole list and the extension of the list on the data to be realised every year in a smaller percentage arouses false hopes. We don't do this culture a favor if we extend the list. We're totally out of business. But we're hanging a millstone around the neck of the people who are going to do this because they're going to say "it's the law, there's no money." That's what it's worth to say. I want the Ministry to read the law in the way it is written, so I will end up giving priority to those programmes that have not been completed. That this is indeed a commitment, as it says in the law. It is not, however, that the Ministry is already walking around Slovenia and things that are not even written into the programme, promising contracts for so-called current year or future. This is indirectly so high-a-vis the law which was withdrawn as a higher-a-vis what are the main problems in the field of culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you. I'm giving the word to Janez Sponik, who didn't want to talk first, and now he wants to talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u180	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you. I applied for a general debate. Then I gave up first, but I want to talk to you in the general debate. The distinguished forerunner has now opened the conceptual questions of this law. When we had our hearing a month ago, he was already opening up this subject, and I must admit to him that he is principled, consistent, today speaking in the same direction as he did a month ago. A few arrows also flew toward the congregation, which begins at C and is Cerkno. It is no big deal, even if an amendment were to be adopted under point three, where LDS colleagues tried to propose deleting some items and transfer it elsewhere. I would fight against it, and then of course I would support the law, because the content of the law is at home elsewhere than only in Cerknem, Montenegro, Šentjur, Velenju, Domžal and Brežica. It's all tied to libraries. Kolga Školč is also a much more subtle knower of the relationship and functioning of the cultural ministry than I am, and I can trust him that part of his criticism can be justified. However, I would point to two words in marriage. In this marriage, the words "some" and "emergency" are. And whenever you talk about some and emergencies, you always make decisions in Parliament only politically. But you have professional suggestions on that. But the profession lives in its premises and dimensions. The profession often has no sense of politics. That's what Parliament is for. But it's Parliament, not the profession. You know, sometimes an expert hits clean through when he's assessing what's necessary. Sometimes it hits the pass, but mostly it doesn't. It is therefore up to Parliament to accept this responsibility. And if we make the wrong decision, it's our responsibility, not our profession. Parliament has a duty to say no to the profession. However, the profession must be so convincing that Parliament is convinced that it is making the right decision. And here's the problem with the amendments that my colleague Jerovšek spoke about earlier. I'll have a hard time voting against you, Comrade Jože Jerovšek. With a big problem. I recall the debate on the last report of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman has used the expression of regional deprivligity for the first time so far. He almost got out of his tongue that it was also a violation of human rights. The debate we are opening here is a debate in some sense of justice in Slovenia. Whether we are able as legislators to follow the urgency, national privilege or priority, and at the same time to have in our heart and to be the engine of such decisions, the whole country is equal. It's the art of politics. That is why the debate, Comrade Jerovská, has the full weight. But as a bill-maker, I made a commitment not to go beyond some of the limits that we have financially assessed. There's my problem. And here I'm going to have a problem with the vote. And one more thing, it's a matter of national archives. I am sure that my colleague, Školcz, listened to me when I opened the issue of archiving. I'm sure that's an important question. And the biggest, not the biggest, important contribution to the debate, my colleague, would also be by trying, not by making a decision, but by making a decision, to commit that, when we have a year's stake in this House, we will have a law on certain taxes and exemptions to say that we will stimulate cultural values, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] that they will invest in cultural monuments. [[...]] We do this, and it'll be the best we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you. Two other discussers want to re-examine because they have an option within time, namely, Joseph Jerovšek and Majda Širc. I'm sorry if I may have changed the order, when someone raised their hand. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I have to re-engage in this debate because some of the points that are not going in the right direction have also been made. I myself have discussed the proposals of the amendments, which according to the urgency criterion are fully justified and speak of a fair and equal treatment within the category of emergency programmes. I'm sorry if some people don't know this cultural heritage, even though one would expect it. If we look at the urgency criterion, which is always present, I am sure that if we evaluate these programmes according to the urgency criterion, the proposals that I have very cheaply submitted would be at the top of the score, at the top of the score, or at the top half or at the top third of the urgency criterion. For this reason, it is also incorrect that even some state administrations provide incorrect ownership data for the elimination of such proposals, verified during this debate, because I have called on municipal officials responsible for this, and I know what the municipality is doing, where ownership is and so on. So I'm actually surprised that some former government officials are operating on the wrong data. In fact, this is what colleague Podobnik said about regional deprivability within the criteria for emergency programmes in culture. I do not accept any argument that we should not exceed certain limits. We all know today that these programs will be covered or resolved only in a percentage of what is written here today on paper. For this reason, let us at least make it possible to reduce regional deprivability in order to reduce this criterion slightly. In fact, I think the Ombudsman in this area has found it right. And don't say that, once again, I stress that this list is then so determined because it will be 100% realized and financed. We all know it won't take that form. It is therefore correct, correct and just that some additional programmes are included here, because without this the law will be a failure and I think it will have significantly less chance of being financially realised in some reasonable percentage. And those programs that have come under some other criteria will be worse. We will not be able to attach such a ranking to the scale and it will cause constant problems. Therefore, please be so correct and be so correct that you accept these arguments that are not attracted to hair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u184	I would like to continue with the debate, but I must also give an additional explanation to my predecessor, because he is afraid that the law will not be realized anyway, because we will not, in Parliament and in the government, take care of its financial implementation, and that it would be, at least in your opinion, that it would be right for him to be realized in a sense where the regional programmes would be implemented. But let me remind you that for one proposal, such as for Slovenska Bistrica or castle, you received in 1999 2 million 300 thousand for the renovation of stairs; in 2000 11 million for the central staircase, in 2001 for the reconstruction of the southern building facade of 5 million, for the rehabilitation of the roof in 2001 9 million and almost 10 and 2002 for the rehabilitation of the roof 11. Together in these years, 29 million or 30 million, which is probably not enough because you've put in place a new amendment. But what I wanted to continue in the debate on the adoption and purpose of this law was one observation that was made by my predecessor. I should assure him that the central facilities, the provision and regulation of the basic conditions for certain central public institutions are the law. It is true that they were brought before, and this law brings at least priority to those who have not been realized before. Jožef Školč knows that they were realized, he probably does not want to say again that they were realized in Ljubljana, that a connection of the National Gallery was built from the tolar, just before the completion of the Viba film studio, the renovation of the Slovenian Philharmonic was completed, if I mention only some. I'm not talking about the investment in the Metelks. And the preparation of other investments, such as the foundation or construction of the foundation of the Opera, the construction of the Drama. After all, these processes are long and needed some longer-term preparations. Not to mention some investments in Maribor, where there are also central public institutions in the field of culture that have been realised. But the law speaks, even in explanation, that the law should give priority to those programmes that were planned and once detected as necessary for such or other reasons, but were not usually implemented. I understand that many of you here think I'm talking about cloud plans. There is also a way in the public mind, yes, because you are accepting something, which does not have what is necessarily a goal in reality, in the final inventions of these programmes. But, I tell you, if this plan were not available, in fact, some priorities would not be set at this point, which are not elsewhere recorded, such as that summary of some strategic guidelines that Slovenia has in the field of not only infrastructure, we are dealing with infrastructure here because it is at the heart of everyone, the closest, not only at heart, but also elsewhere, but we have four other, very important subroutines. At the same time, I remind you that in 2004, that is to say the year that we meet in the National Assembly these days and these months, the Ministry of Culture would no longer have any reason to require an additional 6 billion approximately, I am speaking in a framework, to finance cultural programmes, projects in its field. It would break the law, and all the grounds on which life could be better for them would be abolished. I think that this moment, even because of this marriage, not just the government, please, with everyone else, life can be better. In any case, it also seems very important to me that this law also has a very real and very objective addition with a new programme, which is realistically, absolutely undimensionally prepared in a way to open up those spheres within the culture that are just happening when cultural offers and cultural pulses are developed. I am talking about the cultural networks of higher-a-vis, after all, also the cultural culture that changes, let's face it, the status that we have in our memory, as we once called amateur culture, and turns into youth centers, in a lot of living cultural centres that, Mr Jerovšek, cover the whole of Slovenia. Regional absolute equality. And that's right. Anyway, there's something else I'd like to point out. When we met what Mrs Majnikov rightly said, with the 2004 budget, we did not have a closed law yet, but in a way we all kept figs in our pocket or fists, that the law would be adopted and we went to Parliament or, in agreement with the government, to correct the budget lines. At the time, or we will hear what I hope, there were no actually any comments. If we look at the 100% realisation of this law for all these programs, not just central institutions, not only the amateur culture, but also for those who are regular programmes, this is also said for Slovenian Bistrica within regular programmes, no one is actually overly concerned, except for those sent groups or Members who have adjusted the budget that he lacks 4.5 billion tolls to implement this programme. I mean, it's really nice to write something, but that's why you have to make sure it gets material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Baskovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Only two or three comments that may help to complete an already quite complete information picture that you have given to each other in the debates. With regard to investments in monuments, some monuments in the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, I would say that in the years from 1997, 1998 to including last year or even this year, 30 million were invested in the castle, I will not specify because the Member has already done so, in Dornavo 128 million, in St. Martin 10 million, I use rounded numbers. I would like to add that, both for these monuments and for some others, as I said in the introduction, in the plans of the Ministry, there are also certain sums in the budget proposals for the Ministry of Culture from the so-called so-called ones, of course this is not the professional term, the regular means. We would very much support the Ministry's proposal, the idea, Mr Podobnik's thought, which warned that in Slovenia we will have to start using an instrument to stimulate investment in culture, and this tax stimulation, as it is after the developed world of habit. I would also very much support Mr Školč's idea that they are essential national investments. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia, the state central archive, is in the investment plan, the investment is actually taking place and we expect that this investment will also be successfully completed within three years. The academies are a complex, complex story, where at least two ministries, the city and the university are involved, I can tell you that the grounds for taking this project seriously, including ideas and so on, are already well agreed. Investment in the National Library, NUK - two. We can expect the government to submit a new amendment to the existing law on the construction of NUK - two in the coming year. The marriage is from the year, I think, 1995, but it wasn't realized. But why in particular? This is because it is an investment that will continue at three billion and a half billion already invested, following the current expert assessment. This is such a big and difficult matter, and investment is so crucial to the strategic development of Slovenia that it is right to discuss this in particular with full attention. I can say on behalf of the competent department and the government that the priority will be given to the investments already under way from the cultural toll of the current law and to those who will, of course, have prepared spotless documentation in time, in accordance with the annual plans to be approved by the government, as you know, by law. According to the information available to me, honourable Member Jerovšek, Poland is private, but today you have given me the thought and I will review it again and tell you what is true. I think it's private, but if it isn't, in this case, of course we're going to have to take a deep look at some of the employees in our service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you. He once again spoke to his colleague Jerovšek and then to his colleague Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u188	Yeah, one more time. I am not saying or I am not saying that the number mentioned here for the castle of Slovenska Bistrica, which is from the regular programmes, is 30 million in the past years, is not correct or is not correct. I would expect knowledge, depending on the professional profile and also some of the previous services, the dimensions of this castle, its architectural value, its equipment and so on. If I compare this, I think it's a little bit - and I don't want to quote others in taxis, so that no one thinks that I want to eliminate anyone - but there are relatively few comparative castles, by size, all of these items, those that can be compared in a minimal way, go from 300 million up. That's why this operation with 30 million is literally a mockery. It is a "tringeld", a tip compared to what provides in some way a cultural tolar. And that's not right, and I have to protest against that kind of inadequacy. I don't think it was intentional, but if I heard correctly, the Dornava Castle does not mention the Slovenian Bistrica because it belongs to the Dornava Congregation and is quite far away from us, so that the 130 million will not fall out as the means with which they tried to satisfy Jerovska. It was stated here that no one has sought funds in the budget, which could also be earmarked for these funds, for 4 billion. That's not true. I have fought very consistently to ensure that the funds provided for in the budget are not thrown through the window so that it does not "chafle" literally through corruption issues, through certain things that have been clearly and loudly planned and transferred to certain accounts. I'm one of the few people I've always fought against. And if this were to be heard, it would also be realized; then for these programmes there would be enough money in the budget, Slovenia is rich enough, you just have to start sweeping ahead of the customer threshold. These are the things, customerism and so on, when the money from the state budget goes untransparent, it emerges as a novice, like Ljubljanica there somewhere near Pivka or there. With the right indicators, with the right numbers and the right reasons, it will be necessary to operate, but not to try to eliminate this discrepancy, and in fact not a well-made set of these programmes with arguments other than arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you. My friend, Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u190	Look, I'd like to introduce you further to your concerns. What was implied is, for example, the municipality C, which is Cerkno in this case, or the municipality B, which is Brežice. But these two investments that come to this list bother me. And believe me, they're not investments that belong to the Corps when we're talking about central institutions. This is not according to the Ministry's position. And it is not possible to read as it cuts the address, Comrade Podobnik, "some" and "emergency". It says "some emergencies." It's an emergency, and some of it's an emergency. From this point of view, I assure you that this rental in Cerkne simply does not belong here. It's a perfect stranger in here. But it's up to Cerkno to agree. In the municipal budget, in compensation, in the annual invitations to tender and so on. Comrade Podobnik will recall that at the time we worked with different positions, the Ministry of Culture had already financed the facility in which this was to happen. And then the congregation of Cerkno said that it was enough money to take care of the rest on its own. Apparently, the promise was too hasty. But that's not the problem. The problem is, I'm just wondering, for 90 people, we don't know how to think about national institutions. We think of them as if they weren't ours. It's ours if he's in Cerknem, if he's in Tolmin, if he's in Jesenica, if he's a national institution, but that's not ours, I don't know who he is. The national state also needs national institutions in the field of culture. And this is a worrying subtonium of this kind of regionalisation that we're selling here. Because look, we have if you go to the analysis [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u191	You may conclude, Comrade Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u192	I'm sorry, just to finish my sentence. If you look at the list of technical heritage, you will see that 2/3 of the money is practically in one region and the museum, which has no working conditions, is not even mentioned. It's just a central institution for this heritage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you. I can thus conclude the general debate of Members and Members on the law in its entirety. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26.11.2002. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2 of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Please, Dr. Brace has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I would like to say a few words about points 1 and 2 or the first two amendments to points 2. As you can see, this is an amendment that relates to two objects in the Vipavska Valley. The first amendment refers to a new item, this is the castle of Lože, and the second is the castle of Lantieri in the town of Vipava. Of course, I thank the Ministry of Culture, which, with relatively modest means, is trying to cover interests at all ends and places, and so far the Lože Castle has had a total of 14 million and Lantiery's castle of 3 million and half. So I couldn't say that nothing has been done so far. However, if I allow myself to have a comparison when you're driving down the Vipavska Valley, you literally fall into the eyes of one of these castles, Zemono, for example, which is on such a marked work and everyone likes that it's so beautiful and kind of compatible with that environment. Lantier's castle in Vipava is certainly a notable building and also the castle of Lože. And this is where we now come up with the question that Mr Školč previously talked about. Of course, I agree that it can be something of national importance, also very urgent and so on. But for the development of Slovenia and its cultural heritage are all parts and in every territory of Slovenia, on every part of Slovenia can be objects of such special importance. Now I do not hope to claim because I am not an expert on the fact that, say, Lože Castle is as important as, say, I don't know, some other object like this, where it is the archive of the Republic of Slovenia or the NUK, or something like that, or, say, Drama. Nevertheless, it is a part of Slovenia that borders Italy, which will be even more affected by larger nations and capital. There may be some other questions that may be asked by the insider. I recall the case of the Vipovje Castle in Brda, where the University of Salzburg showed great interest in helping to rebuild this castle financially, and there it is also forming a university centre with our university; and so many years ago we started with these questions. Now I do not know what the policy of the Ministry of Culture or of the State in this area will be in the future. What I would like is to support our two amendments first. However, if this support is not achieved, I express the hope that the Ministry of Culture, within the framework of the much-tasted resources in the coming years, will nevertheless find an understanding of these two facilities at least to the extent that they do not fail or that they will do the most necessary work, then allowing local authorities, through additional resources, to ensure the functioning of at least part of these facilities and to ensure their life in the future. Although I am aware of all the problems we are hearing about today, I would ask for such support and understanding. I'd just like to check that out. If I understand correctly, is Annex 3 on page 6 withdrawn? [[Yeah.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you, Dr. Brace. Does anyone else want a debate? Mrs. Majda Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I am calling for a debate to clarify my position on the amendments tabled in the proposed law. It's going to be pretty unpopular because I'm not going to support the proposed amendments. However, not because of not having sufficient knowledge of the meaning of individual cultural monuments, but simply because I am finding that so far the basic law has been implemented to a certain extent over one third, that it is wise to insist on the financial framework which we have laid down with the amendment of the law. Any expansion of the financial framework will, however, further reduce the proportion of implementation, given that we all know well how it is to apply the corresponding resources in the next year's prepared budgets. If we look at it from 2004 to 2008, the amendment is one of the ways to provide a culture with more resources after regular resources in the budget for this budget item are insufficient. If I look at it as complementary to what is financed from the regular programme and what is financed by the law that talks about emergency programmes, the proportion of funds allocated to culture is as decent as it is. It is not satisfactory, however, if I come out, I reiterate, from the issue I mentioned in the general report that the right to culture is a fundamental human right. Of course, our debate would be much more important if some of this commitment, as demonstrated today in the debate on this law, could be passed on to the local community. When there is a need to discuss municipal budgets, some opinions are more focused on a different direction and the share of the resources needed to co-finance programmes is sometimes very difficult to achieve in local environments, and this is then sometimes, I do not always say, but sometimes the reason that the picture of regional dispersion of investments and other investments in programmes is more balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss the possibility of having the opportunity to discuss Article 2 after the allocated time? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendment. I turn to the annex, Table 1 and the SDS Amendment to Table 1 and the seven amendments to Table 1. [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this Annex. And then there's Appendix Three. In the meantime, it was information that she had been withdrawn, but it is not possible under the rules of procedure. The National Assembly will decide whether or not to accept it. Anybody want to discuss the amendment? Annex three and the amendment of the LDS Member Club to Annex three. [[Nobody.]] Annex 3 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club to this Annex. If anyone else wants to discuss it, who still has time? [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The procedural word is Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u198	Of course, I will discuss this in the vote on the amendments and the law, of course, and it is not clear to me how you explain the rules of procedure, that you do not recognise the withdrawal of the amendment made by the LDS House of Members and that we have not been informed by Members. I believe that it is necessary to vote on your explanation, and I will prepare this for the vote when the vote is and now in this procedural proposal I announce. In my opinion, the President's interpretation that it is not possible to dispose of his amendment and withdraw it until the point is opened is incorrect and has nothing to do with this Rules of Procedure in force. But we'll vote on that later. However, I inform you, if you want procedurally that the amendment has been withdrawn or announced withdrawal or whatever, because the presidents interpret this differently under the previous law, I think that the construction law has reported that the withdrawal has been announced, but the withdrawal is not allowed. [[It wasn't you.]] This is some practice that is now being introduced, which we simply cannot take over as something that will continue to apply and must be interpreted in a uniform and clear way. However, I declare a procedural vote on this explanation, at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. This final explanation will be given by the Rules of Procedure Commission, where it is also called upon to discuss and decide on this. So far, we have acted in such a way that the amendment remains to the end of the process. The National Assembly shall then decide whether or not to adopt it. And it is only right that the Commission actually decides to do so. We will vote on the amendments and the draft law in accordance with the time frame of the meeting at 7.45 p.m. and thus end the agenda. At 5:30 p.m., we will continue the 18th item of the agenda. I'm taking a vacation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u200	Your Honor! We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Between us, I warmly welcome the representative of the government and give the floor to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Lucija Čok for an additional explanation of the bill, which can take 3 minutes. You can go to the pay phone, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I'll be very short. We in the Committee on Education, Science and Sport of the National Assembly have looked at, in fact, all amendments in the second reading and coordinated them, by agreeing with the views of the Committee. Several proposals have been made in the Committee. Among other things, this is to be added in Article 4: "But the units of the Slovenian Institute for Education may also operate during the period until the establishment of school administrations." We're already preparing intensive school administrations. We also have prepared a text of this transitional period, which we will send as a report on the implementation of this Article also to the Committee on Education, Science and Sport of the National Assembly. We also asked, of course, on the basis of the pressures of the social partners, that restrictions on fixed-term employment should be fixed on a date basis, that is, 1.1.2010, which would actually give this Article the character of transitional provisions. That's about it. We agree with these suggestions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u203	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There are several reasons for the proposed amendments and additions to the basic law on the organisation of education and education following a reduced procedure. However, the most important is the Constitutional Court’s decision, which requires the legislator to take into account the reasons for this decision within one year on the new arrangements for the conduct of confessional activities in schools and schools with concessions. The constitutional examiners challenged the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 72 of the Law on the Financing of Education and Education, but the Constitutional Court, for the fourth paragraph, did not find a violation of the Constitution and the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, nor did it repeal the third paragraph because the repeal would mean that the negative aspect of freedom of conduct would remain unsecured by repeal. In our discussions so far, we have repeatedly stressed in the United List of Social Democrats that the Constitutional Court's decision is binding; that we support the solutions arising from the Constitutional Court's decision; that the Constitutional Court has failed to comply with the requirement to establish the unconstitutionality of the law and that it is in our positions that it is a matter of principle for maintaining a lazi school. We therefore support the proposed law and believe that the Constitutional Court's decision is duly taken into account, because the Court has recognised the possibility of conducting a confessional activity in schools and kindergartens with concessions if it is carried out in a work which does not constitute the implementation of a public programme, namely the performance of a public service, but only by expressly separating itself, timely and spatially, from the public service and by protecting the constitutional right of non-believers or otherwise believing that no one is forcing them into a position where, due to such belief, they face any inconvenience or pressure. The Constitutional Court protected laity, not only in public schools, but also in private schools and schools with concessions. However, for the United List of Social Democrats, it is a very important fact that the definition of confessional activity in the law remains clearly stated because this determines what does not belong to public school. So it is not only a religious belief or a confessional teaching aimed at educating for this religion, as is often thought, but also an organized religious ritual and a teaching in which the content, textbooks, teacher education and the appropriateness of an individual teacher is decided by the religious community. There are two other substantive amendments to the proposed amendment to the law. The first concerns compliance with the new Labour Relations Act and the related conclusion of a fixed-term working relationship and the second time by which school administrations are to be established. The proposed solution, which allows a candidate who does not have an adequate education to establish a working relationship for a maximum of two years because no one has applied to the invitation to tender with an appropriate education, raises concerns for some, as it may happen that no one will again have the required education at the next invitation, and this will not lead to better work in schools facing human resources problems. However, in the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that, in order to achieve the planned increase in the educational level of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we need to provide a sufficiently well-trained teacher and plan to address the shortage in some schools, and this is also a suitable time for individuals to complete their studies and ensure a more secure employment. Your Honor! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Victory Jelinčič The nobles are supposed to present the opinion of the parliamentary group - right? Thank you very much. We have therefore concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr Podobnik would like to discuss this as a Member and the draft law is fully followed by a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mrs Maria Ana Tisovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Honourable Minister and her co-worker! The New Slovenia Group has tabled an amendment to Article 2 of the proposal for a law on the organisation and financing of education and education for the third reading, but our amendment has been rejected because it does not comply with Rule 140(3) of the Rules of Procedure. We believe that such interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which limits the possibility of amendments to a second reading only on the home working body, is a distorted democratic decision. Decisions shall be granted only to a narrow group of Members, but not to the entire national assembly. Our amendment brings back to Article 2 the content that the Government proposed for second reading. We believe that, in the form presented by the Government, it is acceptable. Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the church is separate from the State. In modern legal language, separateness means autonomy of both the state and the church. The separation must not be prevented from carrying out a confessional activity outside the public school programme. In the Constitution, we also have an article that gives parents the right to decide on the upbringing of their children and the State is obliged to ensure that the rights guaranteed by the Constitution are realized. We believe that an article in such a form as was adopted in the second reading is not acceptable because it introduces discrimination and at least a degree of intolerance to different thinkers at a child's age. The Public Laicist School ignores the dialogue with the cultural environment and, contrary to that, the Lazy School enters into a dialogue with every cultural environment. Let us therefore reconsider the form in which we will adopt the law. The New Slovenia Group cannot and will not support this marriage novel because of the above arguments. We have in our client's programme and we advocate equality of all citizens before the law and we are against all discrimination and against every intolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Then Mr. Joseph Kavticnik. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Janez Sponik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to say in full about the law itself that the legislator was before the task of enforcing the decision of the Constitutional Court. Of course, he was completely free to do so. He had several ways. Some are such that it is very restrictive to interpret the unanimous decision taken by the Constitutional Court. However, it can, of course, be broader in its decision, but in a way that does not penetrate the framework of the Constitutional Court decision. I'm talking about Section 2 of the Act. In my personal opinion, the legislator would follow the Constitutional Court's decision if he were broader in his solutions, if I may say so. Some solutions in the second paragraph are unnecessary. At the same time, it is necessary to say again, if we look at the practice and after our discussion at the previous meeting, this topic slightly went from the warmest focus of the public, when it was found that there is no primary school in Slovenia with a concession, that there is only one secondary school, and that this one has a special status, and that there are only eleven kindergartens, in fact, that we are arguing in some way about the issue of a topic that is absolutely irrelevant. This came to light only later. At the heart of this, however, there are ideological and valuable issues that generally share Slovenian society, put division at the forefront and, as a rule, we hear very little about these things. The interpretation of this decision by the Constitutional Court was, in my personal opinion, also wasted the opportunity to discuss these issues more openly. But, of course, as part of the Constitutional Court's decision. It is interesting that in the first round of presidential elections, both by Drnovšek and Mrs Barbara Brezigar, there was a lot of openness in this area. Both spoke in a way that is understood by the vast majority of Slovenian citizens and citizens, and of course the second round implies clearer definitions and also somehow expects an ideological arrow there, and this one has come to the debate. But by the way, even in these public presentations, the issue of school concession and confessional activity is being interpreted quite wrong. If we asked people about the referendum today, what do they imagine about it, I'm sure 90% of people would say wrong. People don't even know what kind of questions this is about. It is a question of confessional activities in schools, schools and schools with concessions, and it is by no means a question of introducing religious teaching and so on. This opportunity has passed. I regret that it ended the way it did. The government had a European solution in its first solution. I would also have endured full judgment in the Constitutional Court. Colleagues in LDS and the United List, I appreciate your position. You had a majority, and you won, and that's how it's gonna be in the law, just like it says. As far as Article 4 is concerned, the activities of school administrations are concerned, and this is one backpack from our school reform. Madam Minister, I will congratulate you if these school administrations come to life in your term. I'll congratulate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to touch on the issue of making an amendment to Article 2. We are discussing, of course, the whole of the law, where it says - the amendment is not tabled in accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure. That's not true. The amendment has been tabled correctly. Please refer to the Rules of Procedure, which are considered to be second reading. It shall be discussed at the working body and at the plenary session. Therefore, there is no reason for the amendment that we have tabled to be disregarded. The same must be taken into account. Article 2 was amended at second reading. That's right. That is why I strongly protest this dictatorship because it does not follow the rules of procedure. Now for the story that seems to be going on. The information went to a strange street. What a colleague, Mr Podobnik, mentions is that if people asked what they were talking about, they would not know or respond 100 per cent differently. It was an initiative to the existing law, which the Constitutional Court found to be unconstitutional. The Slovenian world doesn't know that. This initiative came from our side and the court confirmed it. But how did the solution go? It's the other side. I'm not going to touch confessional instruction here because I've already had debates before me. I will touch what has also been the subject of this initiative. In fact, the freedom of privacy I've been talking about. That someone, that the state and the minister intervene in a space, a private space that is not subject to a concessional activity and a public programme to determine what will work there. That's the key. And that's what the constitutional judges started to do. Of course, there is also the problem of confessional instruction. Should it be carried out or not to be carried out? The very debate on the parental committee has shown the same perplexity. I asked my fellow Member Gabra - he is, unfortunately, not here now, what it would mean if such a dictatorship, as presented by the parliamentary group, were in place. Whether a private person will be allowed to conduct a confessional activity in the premises that are his own, there, between 7 and 12 hours, even though those rooms are not used for school and are empty. He said, no, not in that room. This is an attack on the freedom of private space. And that brings up another thing. These schools are paid, or 80 percent are paid. In this way, we prevent a private contractor from doing some activity in his private premises that could also bring him some value to cover these public teaching costs, those 20%. That's also the moment. But you don't want to understand that. And in this respect, the entire opinion of the Constitutional Court must also be understood. Because this was also the subject of whether the State should intervene in the private area of the concessionaire. That is why, in this light, we have also proposed an amendment concerning confessional learning, an appropriate solution, which at the same time also provides an appropriate response to private space without any pretensions. And that was also a harmonised text. That is why our Member, Marija Ana Tisovic, also withdrew from this amendment, resigned from the law in fact, and gave the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Government the opportunity to arrange other things that are necessary in its opinion and are also worth considering. Some things we've backed up. That's what this is about, dear colleagues. This is an additional dimension to be taken into account. As a country protecting democratic rights, we should be aware of that. Do not be afraid of the value system when we have protected it so that we do not impose on one another, but not to go into this extreme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, colleagues, representatives of the government! The Law on the organisation and financing of education and education lays down the conditions for the organisation and financing of education and lays down the conditions for implementation and a certain way of financing education and education. By adopting this law, we will complement all of them with even better conditions for educational work in all areas of education and education. We have also addressed individual dilemmas that could affect certain distortions in the education and education process. Since most of our young population is involved in the education and education system, it is of paramount importance that we enable all those involved in this process, i.e. in the process of education and education, to have equal opportunities. We are confident that by adopting this law, we will also ensure this. And one more thing. We followed the Constitutional Court's decision. The confessional activity shall be permitted in schools and schools with concessions where it is carried out outside the programme carried out as a public service, so that the spatial and time-consuming programme carried out as a public service is not interrupted. We are talking about those institutions, i.e. kindergartens and schools that have concessions; they are allowed to carry out confessional activities, but not in the time and space dedicated to the public service. We are confident that by adopting this law, once again, we will enable young people to have a quality organised educational and educational work.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 26.11.2002. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. As you know, in the debate I highlighted the issue of Article 2. I would ask for an interpretation of the Secretariat or the Rules of Procedure of the President-in-Office of the National Assembly to answer my question as to what the amendment is, what the second treatment is, and why this amendment is excluded from the list of amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u214	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 69, he is obliged to speak to a Member who wishes to speak on the application of the Rules of Procedure, in which case you refer to the misapplication of the Rules of Procedure, since it is noted that your amendment has not been tabled in accordance with paragraph 3 of Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure and is obliged to make and decide on the President. Therefore, I explain to you that the application of the third paragraph of Article 140 in your case is correctly used. Your amendment was not tabled in an article to which the Second reading State Assembly adopted an amendment. Such interpretation and admission of third-reading amendments were, in all cases, subject to the application of the new Rules of Procedure, such that amendments may only be tabled in the third reading to the articles adopted in the second reading by the National Assembly. Dear Member! If you are not satisfied with my explanation in this case, Rule 282 of the Rules of Procedure allows you to obtain outside the meeting an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Commission and, if necessary, the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The explanation shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the members present. There's no more discussion, Mr. Petty Officer. That's my explanation. My explanation is no longer decided by the National Assembly, as it was under the old rules of procedure, but the path you now have is the way to a commission that is outside the meeting to interpret the Rules of Procedure. I am therefore putting to the debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 4 and the amendment of the Member Clubs of the LDS, the United Kingdom, the SLS and DeSUS to Article 4. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mogue, please. Mr. Mogue, did you report to the debate? [[No, no, ……]] Nobody. Thank you very much. So I conclude the debate. We will vote on the amendments and on the proposals of the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today at 7.45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. At 6.20 p.m. we will move on to the 19th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the bill on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services. Until then, I'm off the job. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u215	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government, a nice greeting. We're moving on to 19. At the top of the agenda, this is a proposal for a bill on parliamentary oversight of intelligence and security services. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Rudolf Mohet. With regard to this law, there is a group of 11 Members with a first-signed magi. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Rudolf Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u216	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Members and Members. Parliamentarians have already tried to regulate the parliamentary supervision of intelligence and security services three times. For the first time in the law which Mr Anderlich and Mr Sesherko put into the procedure, but it sank in the procedure. For the second time, the law of the government was introduced, which was rejected by the National Assembly at first reading. He also introduced the law, which he withdrew and joined the bill's proponents, which we are considering today. The reasons for the adoption of the law concern, in particular, the scattered, partial, opaque and lack of regulation of parliamentary control, and therefore the control must be fully regulated and its effectiveness enhanced. The proposed law regulates, or in a few points. 1st point: the subject matter and scope of parliamentary control of intelligence and security services covers a broader activity of these services and special forms such as: data acquisition, monitoring of international communications systems, secret purchase of documents and objects, secret observation and tracing in open or public premises, using technical means of documenting and obtaining data by means of control of letters and other publications or by recording via TV communication. In the law we also have the composition and manner of the work of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission. I would like to say that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are already specifically governing the area and certain issues relating to the composition and functioning of the Commission, which has a different position than other working bodies of the National Assembly, as its functioning is significantly more directly affecting the functioning of the Executive Authority than the functioning of other bodies of the National Assembly, which is why the fundamental issue and certain issues of its operation must be regulated by law. Since the Commission is already provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it makes sense that this legal state of law merely summarises the fact that the Commission is setting up a national assembly. With regard to the specificity of the Commission's operation, the law makes it clear that the Commission is to regulate its work with specific rules of procedure. It is worth mentioning that the law sets out another specificity of the Commission under its powers to carry out direct measures to control the intelligence and security services, that the Commission should empower no more than three of its members, an authorised group which would better implement those measures and better protect the confidentiality of the data they would introduce in this regard, but that group should, of course, report its findings to the Commission in an appropriate manner. The law also regulates the powers and tasks of the Commission, and in determining the powers and tasks of the Commission, we have drawn on the principle that they must be effectively monitored, while this monitoring must not impede the effective functioning of these services. Therefore, the Commission oversees the implementation of the law on certain specific forms, methods and measures for obtaining information from the Government and the intelligence and security services of the Ministry of the Interior and examines the annual programme of work of the intelligence and security services, the report on work and financial operations, the proposals of the law and acts relating to the functioning of the intelligence and security services and the examination of the notification and initiatives of individuals and organisations relating to the competence of the Commission. One of the main solutions proposed by the law relates to the supervision of the financial operations of the intelligence and security services. The law thus regulates an established international standard whereby strict supervision of the intelligence or security services' budget is essential in order to ensure effective parliamentary supervision. The law also regulates the manner in which parliamentary supervision is exercised. The Commission shall do so by examining the reports of the Government or the competent ministries to the Commission, by means of an announced or unannounced survey of the facilities and premises used by the supervised service and by looking at documents and other material and data of the supervised service. The law also regulates the relationship with the National Assembly, the government, the ministries. These relationships are more or less familiar to us, so I'm not going to talk about them. And the law, six times, governs the Commission's relationship with other bodies of organisations and individuals. For effective supervision, the Commission must also be able to independently acquire the information necessary for effective control. The draft law therefore obliges telecommunications operators to send certain data to be kept in accordance with the law governing telecommunications. Operators shall also be obliged to allow an unannounced or unannounced inspection of their devices and premises. Similarly, the law also provides for postal service providers. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] [[...]] On behalf of the proposer, for these reasons, I propose that Members of the National Assembly, following this, decide that the law is appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Franz Lenko has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear government representatives, Members and fellow Members! Parliamentary oversight of intelligence and security services is a very important activity, particularly in terms of ensuring respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Legally, this supervision is governed by legal provisions, certain supervisory powers, and the tasks are also laid down by a decree establishing a Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission. Finally, some of the regulations of this activity have also been processed in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This scattered, partial and urban untransparent parliamentary control system sometimes creates unpleasant complications between the Security Intelligence Committee on the one hand and the Security and Intelligence Services on the other. The basic objective of the proposed law is to ensure uniform and effective parliamentary supervision of intelligence and security services, in particular in terms of ensuring respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the use of financial resources. It should be borne in mind that these services have legal powers which affect the Constitution and the laws protected by fundamental human rights and freedoms. On the other hand, the nature of their work requires a certain degree of covert action. But with effective supervision, we ensure public confidence in the work of security and intelligence services. In our Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we welcome the adoption of this law. We are confident that the legislative process will further upgrade and improve the solutions it brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We therefore have a law under consideration, which we are convinced is primarily necessary in order to ensure uniform and effective parliamentary supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, it is important that the supervisory body, the Commission, remain in the role of political control and not be allowed into the work of the investigative commissions. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we consider that the proposal is a suitable basis for its thorough treatment on the home labour body, where we will also take note of the opinion of the legislative and legal service and of the government's concrete amendments. The relationship between the supervisor and the supervisors needs to be clearly defined due to the uncertainties and complications that arise. In this regard, the powers of the supervisory commission and the obligations of the services at the time of the exercise of the control and, inter alia, the manner in which the supervision is carried out, as well as the procedures for the exercise of the control, should be specified. In the Monitoring Commission, we find that our powers are too strict, but at the same time, the government warns us that the proposed law is too wide and that it is also unacceptable to interfere with the relationship between the legislative and executive branches of power. While trust between supervisors and supervisors should be in principle in practice, it is essential to ensure quality control that all those who, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, may interfere with fundamental human rights and freedoms commit themselves to the prudence and sensitivity of their conduct. Even so, the good and legal functioning is better if it is subject to quality and continuous control. However, control must not, of course, impede the legitimate functioning of both intelligence and security activities. A special chapter in the functioning of the Commission so far has been the protection of confidential data. In spite of the legal provisions, confidential information has been repeatedly leaked to the public in the past. There was a mutual suspicion which reflected reflexively in the lack of confidence in the services of Members and vice versa. With the introduction of the so-called "deaf room", the situation has changed significantly. We can certainly claim that Members, members of the Supervisory Commission, are aware of or aware of our responsibilities. And when we ask ourselves when the services covered by this law are successful and quality - only when they are not publicly present in various media. In doing so, it is essential to ensure that this law does not undermine the integrity of these services and does not expose them publicly. We will therefore listen to the drafters of the new law as well as our legislative and legal service and, of course, to the government in the process of examining the law at the meeting of the home labour body and later in the national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jožef Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the SDS Group, we support the adoption of legislation in this important area. We think that, after so many years of democratic existence, our country is absolutely necessary, and it is a time to do so. Intelligence and security services are an emergency institute of all countries. In their work, however, they are moving along a narrow border between the rule of law and respect for human rights. In the SDS, we are aware of the crucial importance of parliamentary supervision of the work of intelligence and security services in ensuring respect for human rights. Historical experience should be taken into account when intelligence services were an instrument of the totalitarian State and a tool for control and aggression against citizens. It is not surprising, therefore, that among the countries with democratic tradition, this area is the most legally regulated by those countries which are their democratic structure, where the democratic system has been interrupted by a period of totalitarian power. Such experiences and such recommendations were given to us in Germany, where they had a period of Nazism. Of course, Slovenia is one category with more recent experience. Therefore, after 12 years of democratic power, the adoption of a law that will fully regulate the area of intelligence and security services is necessary and logical. Several proposals have already been tabled by both the government and the Members. The proposal for a law that is being considered today and prepared by the Commission with the cooperation of distinguished legal experts is, in the opinion of the SDS Group of Members, an appropriate and appropriate basis for the legislative regulation of this important area. The adoption of the law is also based on the Constitutional Court’s decision of 21.9.2000, which expressly states that judicial supervision of the activities of security and intelligence services is not comprehensive, since the measures used by the services have a significant impact on the individual’s information and other privacy. As a rule, the person affected at the time of their execution, but often also subsequently, is not aware that he is being supervised. Both increase the possibility of abuse. The broad powers to intervene in human rights and to manage information that can be used comprehensively therefore dictate this establishment of effective control. The principle of the division of power in parliamentary democracy gives rise to the competence of Parliament or of a special working body to monitor the activities of security and intelligence services as to whether the content of the data and information they acquire are the way they are obtained and made available to them within the framework of what is provided for in the legislation and the Constitution. So is the decision of the Constitutional Court. During the time of democratic power in Slovenia, the Social Democratic Party is the only party that has been subjected twice to the abuse of intelligence services for political purposes. Therefore, our interest in the law, which clearly defines parliamentary supervision, is so much greater. If you remember, these two cases were: the use of a secret police associate to illegally collect data from the Department of Defence with the aim of demolishing the then minister. Another exposed example of the misuse of intelligence services for the discredit of the Social Democratic Party took place in 1998 when the Ministry of the Interior distributed ordered information from the intelligence service to organise the training of volunteers of the Kosovo Liberation Army. That's why the Minister of the Interior had to leave. Even as a result of such experience, this is a particular reason, we strive to keep our eye on the activities of the intelligence services in a consistent way. The supervision must provide an insight into the activity in such a way as to make it clear whether it actually uses its activity only for the purposes and objectives set out for it by government acts. The Commission must also receive feedback from the contracting authority, which is usually the government, on the effectiveness of individual intelligence and security services actions. Only when an intelligence contracting entity, the government, is included in the supervision will parliamentary supervision be fully rounded up. Of course, it is also the task of the Commission to monitor the legality of the use of specific methods and means. Parliamentary supervision is now governed by the sectoral laws and regulations of the National Assembly, which in practice leads to a different understanding and interpretation of obligations between the services and the Supervisory Commission. Sometimes there is also a contradiction between the fact that the Commission, as the supervisory authority for the exercise of control, depends on the good will of the supervised entity and vice versa, since in most cases it reports to it what seems appropriate for it to be able to report to it. The Commission does not have the possibility, on the basis of the authority that has an explicit basis in the law, to require the supervised entity to communicate to it all the information and circumstances that would provide the Commission with effective control over the activities of the intelligence services and that the Commission would not be allowed to go into the methodology of the services. This must, in the SDS's view, and this is generally recognised - this working methodology - remain a secret for the Commission itself. We stress that the commission of this intelligence, as far as we know, has never had one, so some of these insinuations have been criminal, and there is no way that they can come up with such an idea. We also agree that the Commission has, by example, a view of the German comparative practice of the amount and the purpose of the financial resources for the implementation of the supervisory measures. In the Social Democratic Party, we think it would be useful if the Commission had the opportunity to empower an expert. This institution has extraordinary psychological strength, which is also highly restrictive in comparative practices. On the other hand, we listen to experts in some way to the fact that Slovenia is not most suitable for the use and implementation of such an institute. It seems important to us that this law also offers the possibility, in Article 26, that employees in intelligence services can directly address the Commission with warnings of possible illegal use or misuse of intelligence methods. It is very important that the Commission can defend the will of the government. We are confident that the law before us will improve and contribute to better trust between the commission and the intelligence services. Building this trust is in the interest of the State, Parliament and all citizens. And we firmly believe that the parliamentary oversight commission can never have too many powers and too many rights. In fact, the nature of our work, our options, our operational options are such that the services should never be afraid of this, and I am sure that they will or will already realize that they must have the very interest, after as detailed reporting to the Commission as possible, of the supervisory commission, in which the country must also have confidence that its work is in the interest of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Kangler, who is not among us, then Mr. Marko Diaci will present Mr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Director. In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that the situation in the field of parliamentary control of intelligence and security services in the Republic of Slovenia is not adequately regulated. This is, after all, demonstrated by the difficulties of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission in its work in the past, as it was not possible to carry out its work successfully and in particular clearly and effectively. The reasons for this are different, and in most cases they are based mainly on the wide and opaque regulation of parliamentary control over the work of intelligence and security services. In short, on an insufficiently clear and defined unequivocal legal basis. We therefore believe that the current situation of the unregulated exercise of parliamentary control over the work of security and intelligence services can only be overcome by the comprehensive regulation of this area. The fundamental objective of this law is and must be uniform and effective parliamentary supervision of intelligence and security services, in particular in respect of ensuring respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the use of financial resources. The law should clearly define the powers, work and limitations of parliamentary control in another way to ensure effective control and direction of the operation of security and intelligence activities. The legislatively regulated area, which will ensure the effective implementation of parliamentary supervision, will of course benefit both the reputation of the National Assembly and the reputation and confidence in the functioning of intelligence and security services. In addition to overseeing work, the main purpose of parliamentary supervision is to improve the functioning of intelligence and security activities, which, of course, requires mutual cooperation and trust between the parliamentary commission and the supervised services. We therefore believe that the law must define the quality of the relationship between the Intelligence and Security Services Commission and the National Assembly, the Government and the competent ministries and the intelligence and security services in order to avoid different interpretations of individual legal bases and, consequently, unnecessary complications. In the Young Slovenia Party, we particularly welcome one of the main solutions to the proposed law relating to the supervision of the financial operations of the intelligence and security services, as the law provides for a detailed annual report on the level and purpose of the use of financial resources in connection with the overall activity of these services and the individual activity of particular importance for national security. In addition, it is envisaged that the Commission may at any time during the year require the submission of such a financial report by the Intelligence Service. The Commission will also be able to request the Government to submit a report on the financial operations of the Intelligence Service for the execution of individual tasks and a report on the execution of individual activities of particular importance to national security at any time during the year. In this way, the Commission may also have a significant impact on the provision of appropriate operating conditions and on the functioning of these services. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are convinced that sufficient powers must be given to the Commission in the law, because only this ensures that it will do its work effectively enough. We do not agree with the Government's opinion, which aims at significantly reducing the competence of the Commission, since we can then expect only another new law, which will only define the work of the Commission in a cosmetic way, and in practice the work of the Commission will be hampered at every step. We do not need such a law because it does not contribute to the transparency and clarity defined by this proposal of the law, and this is the goal that the signatories want to achieve, because the law has been written with the help of legal professionals. In Slovenia, citizens of the intelligence and security service are still very much like the work of similar services from the former country, which have acted with great powers in complete secrecy, on the basis of secret official lists and in the interest of a very narrow circle of people. Given the public’s public perception of unbearable secrecy, inefficient control, obstacles to the commission’s work for such and other reasons, such reputations are also understandable. The time of James Bond and the bad criminals has passed, in our opinion. For how citizens should trust in the legal and constitutional functioning of these services, if they well know that even those who are legally able to control them are in doubt, is said to be members of the commission of inquiry. They may rightly wonder who these services then actually serve, where are those actual limits of interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms and who sets those limits. Of course, there is also a need to be aware of the nature of the work of employees in these services and of the exposure to the life risks of these people. I think that we are also well aware of these signatories to the law and that our conduct has been and will also be responsible in this respect. Last but not least, this is expected of members of the parliamentary commission. In the expectation that the law will ensure transparent and effective control of intelligence and security services, we will support the law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members. First of all, I could have the word "magic." Janez Petty Officer, who is not among us. Mrs. Maria Ana Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. Since Mr Petty Officer is away, he has submitted his report to me. In Slovenia we do not yet have proper control of intelligence and security services. The provisions of parliamentary supervision are scattered, opaque and lacking and placed in various laws and even in the decree of the National Assembly. That's why it has to be arranged. This will ensure that parliamentary supervision is improved. The function and work of overseeing the functioning of these services within the framework of the parliamentary working body is slightly different from that of the other bodies. Parliamentary oversight is the most important form of democratic control and direction of the work of intelligence and security operators. This is an activity that can seriously affect human rights and must therefore be given due attention. Control can go in two directions. For the first time, it interferes with a person’s privacy, which of course is not right. Secondly, in order to ensure the rational use of resources and the efficiency and efficiency of services, which is, in fact, the objective of control and of course, the law. The information - security activity subject to supervision under this Act is carried out by the Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Intelligence and Security Agency of the Ministry of Defence. The security activity under surveillance is carried out by the police belonging to the Ministry of the Interior. The supervision of these services is to be carried out in a variety of prescribed ways on the basis of the law submitted. In doing so, it is important for the Commission to be able to receive independently the information necessary for effective control. We can hope that this will ensure the prevention of those activities of services that do not have a legal basis and, on the other hand, effective work, and probably not unloving events like this spring when the Commission of the National Assembly was unable to carry out the statutory control tasks. We will support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Since we are communicating this general debate with a public that is not yet familiar with Slovenia, the importance of parliamentary supervision and, in some ways, because of historical bad experiences, in some parts of the public also has a poor opinion about intelligence services, but mostly unjustifiable, it is important to stress that the fact that the need for effective control of the activities and legality of the security and intelligence services is not in itself reasonable. Not in today's Slovenia either. Thus, when we adopted the law on police and, above all, the law on SGEIs, we were witnesses to serious, skilled and well-covered attempts to take control of the activities of these services. I hope that this situation is exceeded, that such attempts will not appear again, because so far the work of the parliamentary commissions, I think, especially in the last term, the Slovenian public and the executive authorities have also shown that we are a serious enough body to exercise this control seriously enough. However, we cannot agree in the Commission, the members of the Commission and the parliamentarians that supervision of the activity is not necessarily necessary. For even though these services have undergone radical changes in democratic Slovenia, there are still small relapses of the past, misunderstanding of parliamentary control. I am convinced, however, that Slovenia is mature enough to be able to use all the institutions envisaged in democratic countries, used for the supervision of intelligence services and that the supervisory authorities of Parliament will always work in a state-of-the-art manner and that at the same time their method will systematically doubt the work of intelligence services. This systematic doubt is for the benefit of intelligence services. Attempts to abuse this information, which are extremely important and extremely powerful. Intelligence services have in their hands extraordinary powers, extraordinary information, and God forbid ever again this information or this service be removed from control, both internal control and parliamentary control. And that is why this systematic doubt is a useful thing, which is, in fact, also recommended in democratic countries as a working method for supervisory authorities such as the parliamentary commission. The gaps in understanding the current sectoral legislation contained in the various laws that so far allow the work of the parliamentary supervisory commission are also in some way the cause of some short contacts that have not been greater in recent times. But I can safely say that this lack of understanding and a different interpretation is this year, for example, the cause of the so-called Maribor episode when the Commission was unable to control it. I firmly believe that by establishing or adopting this roof law, such a different understanding, a different interpretation of the competences of the Commission and the obligations of the intelligence services will be the past. I am also sure that this will help prevent an affair within intelligence services. These affairs and this has been getting smaller and smaller in the last period. I am convinced that the established trust between the parliamentary supervisory committee and the intelligence services has already contributed to the fact that the affair that has been born in the intelligence services has been less and that the fact that the parliamentary supervisory committee is also in a serious, delicate situation - at least one such case - has entered into that it has explained before the public and ensured that the intelligence services have been working legally; that they have not violated the legality that the application of the specific methods and means was legal and in accordance with the law with all the necessary decisions and judicial decisions. So, in my opinion, we are finally on track to establish European comparable legislation. The fact is, too, that not all countries have an equally regulated area. As I mentioned earlier, this is better arranged in those who have experienced abuse of these services in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Anton Anderlich. Mr. Dorian Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Given that we have not been reported by presentation of the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, what I will say is also practically the position of our group. The joint conclusion when the law on parliamentary supervision on intelligence and security services is introduced into the procedure of the National Assembly can only be found that it has been a time to make efforts to regulate the area of this type of parliamentary control in our country as a whole. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in its resolution on the national security strategy, laid down the basis for control by stating that the State assembly, which also sets out the strategic direction of the external, defence, internal security, economic information and security policy and other policies and through the competent working bodies, exercises control over the legality of the work of the intelligence and security services. In all these years of democracy in Slovenia, this area has remained unregulated despite efforts. It is not so much a lack of confidence in the services entrusted with security and intelligence, as far as the opposite is concerned, to strengthen and build confidence in services with a specific mode of operation. Although one of the shortcomings of this proposal is that there is no international comparability of solutions to this area, cases from other European countries show that this area is very different in terms of the content and manner of control and, above all, that the bodies performing these tasks and their powers are also diverse. Further to the process of enacting legislation, which needs to be adopted urgently and as soon as possible, this very sensitive area will need to be regulated by setting up, in particular, the right relationship between Parliament or between the Parliamentary Commission and the Government, establishing the right relationship between the rights and responsibilities and the obligations and limitations of both, so that parliamentary oversight of intelligence and security activities is meaningful on the one hand and that it does not interfere with the integrity of these services. Above all, it is essential to have a basic objective before the eyes, namely the protection of human rights and the legality of the operation and the use of budgetary resources. The provisions of the law, both the Criminal Procedure Act and the Data Protection Act, should therefore be taken into account, in particular in order to prevent the work of the Commission and Parliament from confronting and interfering with the work of the judiciary. It is therefore also important to examine in detail both the scope and depth of the review of the files and activities of the security and intelligence services, also in terms of the protection of the interests of the investigation and the protection of classified data. In particular, the latter is an important category relating to trust in cooperation with foreign security and intelligence services. Solutions should therefore be provided to avoid the misuse of the data in question, insofar as these are not sufficiently binding in other sectoral legislation. Some opinions were also that an additional debate should be held on the fact that the parent body does not have a proportional client structure, competence and task to consider proposals for laws and other acts relating to the functioning of the intelligence service. The purpose of this working body, whose majority composition is, of course, opposition, as we say, due to 'democratic hygiene', control, not to this extent co-create legislation. We also believe that it is necessary to amend Article 4 of the Law by not referring to the articles of other laws for legal and technical reasons, since this amendment entails a consequent need to amend this law. Finally, the LDS Group itself and, of course, supports the law, because we believe that it is a good basis for further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u232	I myself have spent a few years or so, I would almost say, for a decade following this issue, and I note that the controls that Parliament has provided in all these years to achieve different intensityes, including the various ways that individual commissions have collected in their supervision, and that of course this is not good. Therefore, back then, years ago, we tried to bring this law into force with one Member, as Mr Mohe said, but somehow it never happened; not because the government didn't want the service to be under control, or because the service itself didn't want, or because the Members didn't have the knowledge and will to write the battle of the law, because I thought it was right that it was created in the national assembly and not in the government, because it was this confidence that had to be established in a given period, probably even in the last two years that it was not enough. That is why it is all the more important that now that this law has emerged in the National Assembly, perhaps certain things are not somehow "stricken" - so to say - in a way that we can achieve the maximum autonomy and confidentiality of what the service does and, on the other hand, that both the Commission and the National Assembly get all the information they need for their control. I think that we have had a bit of a nuisance, that the time between the first hearing and the second hearing, which is supposed to take place in December, is simply too short and that it is not possible until tomorrow or tomorrow to make amendments and submit them, even the opinions of the legislative and legal service are not fourteen days before the meeting of the working body, so I will propose later, given that today is only a vote on whether the law is a suitable basis or not, I will, of course, have to provide myself and my fellow Members with some time to thoroughly review and take into account the comments that have come from the government and, of course, from the Ministry. Even the end of the comparison that Mr Marsič referred to with other countries, which unfortunately is not sufficiently taken into account in this law, despite the fact that the law was created in the legal college experts' circle and there may be others involved, and therefore I think that the time between the first and second readings is very important, that those nuances and those things that need to be settled, in order to be on both sides, namely, on the side of the job and the government on the one hand and, of course, on the side of the Parliament, everyone goes what he is doing and that this will be arranged in a way that those objectives that this law is supposed to pursue are truly achieved. In my view, however, this is a real control of those areas that can be disputed for the job itself when, in a desire, in some of its activities, it may want to get some information even faster, even in a way that is not right and, of course, interferes with human rights and fundamental freedoms. Of course, this means that it is not about strengthening national security, but about the opposite; and, of course, that the Commission and those who will be in contact with the national assembly and with the service and with the government will not compromise the interests of national security. I think, of course, that the procedural work should be discussed later, because unfortunately we have this so arranged and since December has been cut short and the desire for this law to be adopted as soon as possible has actually brought us into a situation where we cannot fix the law in time and in a way that is prescribed for the law that follows a regular procedure. Otherwise, basically, the law has to be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Representatives of the government also took part in the debate in this part. Minister of the Interior Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u234	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! The government has examined the proposal for a law on parliamentary supervision of security and intelligence services and is pleased to see that the Republic of Slovenia will obtain a law after several years of efforts to better regulate this area. At the proposal of the law, the Government also adopted opinions and comments relating mainly to the content of control and to the proposed scope of control. In particular, the content of Article 25 of the bill provides that an authorised group may request access to documents, other material and data of the supervised service without any restriction. With regard to the content of the control, the Government considers that it should be clearly established at the outset that the State assembly, through the Monitoring Commission, is exercising control aimed at verifying the legal basis for the implementation of the control measures. Article 6 of the Act proposes that the Commission monitor whether controlled activities and supervisory measures are within the framework of the Constitution and the law. However, since the supervisory measures of the Security Service are mainly carried out on the basis of a judicial order of the investigating judge, it is necessary to determine the competence of the commission in the supervision by not monitoring the legality of the work of the court. As regards the scope of control, the government considers that the scope of control, as set out in the proposal for a law, is too wide. The Government points in particular to the unclear relationship between Articles 24 and 25 of the draft law, in conjunction with Articles 4 and 5, since the content and scope of control of intelligence and security services is not sufficiently specified. Article 25 of the bill, which discusses that an authorised group may request access to documents, other material and data from the supervised service, is too limited. At least in the case of the supervision of the security service, specifically the police, of the work in which judicial protection is also provided, it should be noted that the decommissioning can verify the consistency of the number of measures taken with the number of orders of the investigating judge and the consistency of individual measures carried out with the prescription of the order of the investigating judge, as we have already agreed in the debate on Article 126a of the Police Act. With regard to the method of control, the government considers that, while the basic objective of the law is to ensure uniform and effective parliamentary supervision, in particular in terms of ensuring respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the use of financial resources, the law should therefore only determine the scope of control and not the way it is implemented. By laying down procedures for the exercise of control, which is also recalled by Constitutional Court Decision 393/98 of 21.9.2000. In order to be clearer, it is too little to determine the scope of control, the way in which it is implemented must also be determined by law. This is also suggested in a series of others, which I will not present all of them with, above all, the law must comply with the State Administration Act. And determine precisely the competence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and individual competent ministers to the Commission, both in reporting and in carrying out supervision. Under Article 16 of the Law on State Administration, the Minister or ministers shall issue regulations and other acts in accordance with the law and take other decisions under the responsibility of the Ministry. And he's also responsible for the ministry's work as a whole. It is precisely for this reason, because of this provision, that this orientation of the Law on State Administration requires that the text be verified in the sense that it follows consistently the statutory powers and responsibilities of the Minister. And instead of the term 'head of the supervised service', the Minister shall be appointed, except for the SOVI, which is the office or office of the Government. And this. The Government considers that the second and third paragraphs of Article 26 prejudge the powers of the Commission, which, as the working body of the national assembly, is responsible for political oversight and is not an investigative committee. In particular, it is therefore necessary to evaluate until the second reading the competence of the commission to talk to the staff. I conclude that the government will formulate amendments that can eliminate uncertainties or unacceptable solutions and bring the law into line with the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The order of the pre-notified debaters is exhausted. However, since the debate is due until 7:45 a.m., it has not yet expired, we still have about 30 minutes available, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. Please contact everyone who would like to discuss, within this available time, the end of this item so that I can share this time. No, no, no. Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will vote today at 7.45 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I therefore interrupt this agenda item and invite you to the hall at 7.45 p.m. when we move to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u236	Good evening! I'm asking you to take your seats. Please, if you are so kind and take your seats, both colleagues and representatives of the government. We will move to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for tonight's decisions. May I have your attention, please? No amendments have been tabled for the 11th item on the amended draft law on amendments to the law on victims of war violence, so the assembly on this item will not vote in the second reading; the third hearing will take place this Friday, 29 November. The same applies to point 12. No amendments have been tabled to the amended law amending and supplementing the law on rail transport, and we will therefore not vote on this in the context of the second reading. We will also do this item as the third hearing on Friday, 29th of this month. We're at 13. Agenda items - Other defence proposals for building laws. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We're moving on to Article 2. We are voting on the amendment of the LDS to Article 2. Please vote on the amendment of the LDS to Article 2. 54 in attendance, 44 in and 4 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members to Article 2. Please. Peace in the hall, we're in the middle of a vote. Attendance: 58, 18 for, 36 for. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have an amendment to Article 34 of the LDS. We're voting. 60 present, 46 to, 2 to. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of the LDS to Article 43. Please. We vote on the amendment to Article 43. 59 in attendance, 45 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We are at the 55th Article and amendment of the LDS Club to this Article. We're voting. 59 in attendance, 44 in and 7 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have two amendments to Article 58. We will first vote on the amendment of the LDS. The amendment received support from 59 present is 45 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] We will now vote on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members to the same Article 58. Let's vote! 59 present. 15 for and 38 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the amendment to the 58th Article of the SDS Group has not been adopted. We have yet another vote on the amendment to Article 79 of the LDS. Please. Explanation of voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, President. I will vote against the amendment, but at the same time I would like to say that the Group of Members, of course due to procedural reasons, could not withdraw this amendment. However, I will vote against this amendment because I believe that, of course, restricting the construction of buildings to a surface of 160 square metres is in some way limiting a certain perspective for young people in Slovenia. I will tell you that most young people think that they would build a larger residential area and the applicant gave 250 square meters for a simple reason, because otherwise he can't afford to build a housing facility along with his parents. If you are building a residential facility with your parents, it is obviously very difficult to live with them on 160 square meters. Therefore, I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that you reject the amendment and, of course, allow what the proposaler said is 250 square metres of the area that provides for some normal stay or co-existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u238	Anyone else want a word to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] The National Assembly will now vote on the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 79. Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. 62 present. 8 for and 45 for. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I'm asking for peace in the hall! The word is given by the Minister of the Dirt.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I would like to ask you if I can suggest that, pursuant to Article 138, the esteemed assembly will hold a third hearing at this meeting. This time I ask you to do so because the law is due to enter into force on 1 January. It is intended to be published together with the law on the regulation of the premises, which is next to vote. We'd be in a lot of time if we had to move him to the December session. I ask you briefly for this support.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u240	Good. On the basis of Article 138, paragraph 1, the Minister shall propose a decision on which we shall vote. Please. 59 present. 50 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This Friday, 29.11, the third reading of the bill will be carried out by the National Assembly. The services of the assembly will provide an overview of the amendments adopted and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I interrupt this point in this respect. I'm asking for a little more peace. We're at 14. Dots, please, at break 14. Agenda items, thirdly, a proposal for a law on space management. We also have a few votes here. By the 6th Article, we will first vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Please note that there will be no questions about the procedure as a result of the noise in the hall. Please, we're voting. We are under the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 6. 57 present. 12 for and 41 for. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote. 56 present. 47 for and 5 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it this amendment has received the necessary support. We are voting on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 6. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 57 present. 2 for and 47 for. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 47.]] This amendment did not receive the necessary support. Mr. Secretary, can you make a statement of consistency?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u241	Thank you very much. At the second reading, not today, the National Assembly has already adopted an amendment which deleted Article 116, paragraph 2, and Article 124, paragraph 3, refers to this now or in the second reading, deleted point. He's become irrelevant. It needs to be deleted. We would have done so if Article 124 were to be opened in the third reading, but it was not, so please, if the harmonisation amendment already tabled under Article 124(3) is deleted, accept. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u242	In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Government has tabled an amendment to Article 124 to delete the third paragraph. The amendment is of a cohesive nature. It was attached to the text. Anybody want a word about him? We will vote on the government's proposal, on the government's amendment to Article 124, to delete the third paragraph. The amendment is of a cohesive nature. We're voting. 61 present, 51 for and none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that this harmonisation amendment has been adopted. This way we can now move to a full vote on the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. 62 present, 54 for and 1 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[I'm against it.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. We're making a decision on point 15. We continue with the cut-off point, with the third reading of the proposal for a law on disability organisations. We will decide on the amendments tabled. We're at Article 8. The New Slovenia Group has tabled an amendment. We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 8. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 60 in attendance, 16 in and 38 in. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall submit an amendment to Article 27. We're voting. The amendment received the necessary support from 61 attending 30 for and 21 for. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 21.]] The Government has also tabled an amendment to Article 29. We're voting on him. We vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 29. 60 present, 51 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. This is how we have done the vote on the amendments. I have not warned that the laws adopted undermine the coherence of the amendments, so we can move on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We are voting on a proposal for a full law. We are in the middle of a vote on the Disability Organizations Act as a whole. 61 in attendance, 54 in, 1 in. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that we have fully adopted the law. Colleagues and colleagues, we continue with interrupt 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE THIRD CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF REJECTION ACTIVITY. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, namely Article 51. We vote on the first amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 51. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We're voting. 59 in attendance, 19 in and 37 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We vote on the second amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 51. We are voting on the second amendment of the same parliamentary group. 62 present, 19 for and 38 for. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that this amendment has not received the necessary support as well. This concludes the vote on the amendments. I have no warning of non-compliance. The National Assembly may decide on the law as a whole. Please, we're voting. 59 in attendance, 56 in and 1 in. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that we have fully adopted the law and have thus concluded the 16th item of the agenda. We're moving on to break 17. Agenda item - Third Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in Culture. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. May I have your attention, please? I propose that we decide on the amendments to Article 2 and Table 1 as we have done in the second reading of the proposal of the law, namely to vote first on the amendments to Table 1. All these amendments shall be mutually exclusive and shall at the same time be linked to the relevant amendments of the same proposer to Article 2 of the draft law. In the event that the amendment to the table is not adopted, the relevant amendment to Article 2 becomes irrelevant. We are voting in Table 1. We will first vote on the first amendment of the SDS Group to the annex to Table 1. We're voting. Of the 59 present, 10 voted against, 40 against. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted; in this sense, the amendment to Article 2 under Article 1 has become irrelevant. We will now vote on the second amendment of the same parliamentary group to Table 1. We're voting. If there was any confusion, please stop early enough. 59 present, 11 for, 39 versus. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted; at the same time, I note that this makes the second amendment irrelevant to Article 2. We are at the third amendment of the same parliamentary group to Table 1. Let's vote! We are under the third amendment of the SDS Group of Members. This one didn't get any support either. Of the 59 present, 13 and 40 voted against. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the third amendment to Article 2 becomes irrelevant. We are at the fourth amendment of the same parliamentary group to Table 1. We're voting! Excuse me? I'm breaking up. You want a word? Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u244	Please, please, please, please, please, My friend Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u245	There were few of us here when we discussed this law. I have submitted four amendments to this law, but I would be a political idealist if I were to expect the four amendments to be adopted. In this first amendment, I call and appeal to you to support this amendment, because in the debate, we, too, and the representatives of the government, have found that, at first in the debate, the wrong information about the ownership of this castle has been used and that the actual area of the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica is deprived of this law. It's a huge area, a huge monument to cultural heritage, an eminent monument. I suggest you at least support this amendment. In the plaza of hundreds of objects that will leave the cultural tolar, this is at least a partial satisfaction or satisfaction that, as colleague Podobnik said, some areas will not be regionally deprived. If you are not obliged to support anything, then you are subject to some strange principle that is not in accordance with political democracy, with some positive principles in our society. I hope that, on the basis of what we have come together in the debate, at least one amendment from those that also relate to the area from which I come will be supported. That's the first amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their vote before the vote? I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment of the SDS Group to the annex to Table 1. We're voting! We vote on the fourth amendment of the same parliamentary group to the annex to Table 1. 59 present. 20 for and 35 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing he didn't get the support he needed. This also makes the fourth amendment irrelevant to Article 2. We are at the fifth amendment of the same Group of Members to Annex 1. We're voting! 57 present. 14 for and 37 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. I note that we will not vote on the fifth amendment to Article 2. We have two more votes. The sixth amendment of the SDS Group to the Annex to Table 1. We're voting! 57 present. 13 for and 38 for. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. This makes the sixth amendment irrelevant to Article 2. Finally, we have another vote in table 1 on the seventh amendment of the same parliamentary group. We're voting. We vote on the seventh amendment of the SDS delegation to the annex, Table 1. 57 present. 15 for and 39 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment has not been adopted and therefore the vote on the amendment under Article 7 to 2 becomes irrelevant. We're at Annex 3. We will vote on the amendment of the LDS Member Club to Annex 3. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u247	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear from the debate in this afternoon's work that the parliamentary group that was proposing this amendment would only wish to withdraw it, and then because of the practice in the National Assembly this would not be possible. The amendment deletes items for six libraries in various parts of Slovenia and makes this money available for some very important national projects in Ljubljana. I will not personally support this amendment. Last but not least because, from the beginning of the group that proposed the law, an agreement has been in place to try individual budget or legal items that have been proposed not to propose the withdrawal ourselves. This is said to be some arguments for such a solution, but then you would certainly feel like a Member played, even as a proposal for this law, if that were to happen. I expect that the majority of the Members and Members of this amendment will also not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u248	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u249	I regret that this situation has occurred because the leadership of the assembly, together with the service, has obviously acted differently at this meeting than at some others, or practice is not uniform, which is also evidenced by the actions of Vice-President Valentin Pohorc, who has turned to the business committee to help the leadership of the assembly to act in the event that the proposing amendments wish to renounce or withdraw the amendment at the final stage of this amendment. There is no provision allowing this. I regret this, of course, because the Law Service has not been able to draw up an opinion within almost a month so that the business commission can be set up in time to do so. There was enough time between the two sessions. I know it's no accident, and that's why this opinion is not that it can be done on its own. We have withdrawn this amendment in writing, even though there are arguments that some of the principles that this amendment pursues and actually seeks to be enforced by a certain group of Members through the whole adoption process. Because I do not want to go forward and find out who is right now or who is wrong, I propose that the business commission, however, make an explanation by the future meeting and help the presidents to interpret the rules of procedure in a uniform manner in individual cases, and above all advise Mr Plevljel to give the presidents uniform instructions, because it all begins and ends there. That's why I'm not gonna keep bothering you. I propose to the Members and Members that these amendments be rejected and that we act in a uniform manner in all cases in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u250	My colleague Anderlič, since you announced the withdrawal announcement, before the vote began, I looked into and thoroughly examined the practice so far. All of us who conducted the meeting did the same. For the first time, I did so at the 19th meeting when I rejected the proposal of the ZLSD Group to withdraw the amendment, which was point 8. I said, we can't follow, the amendments remain in the debate. They may be rejected by vote. That's what all my colleagues did. The dilemma is now before the business committee. If the business commission decides otherwise, of course, we will take this into account without any problems. We are at the amendment of the LDS Member Club to Annex 3. We're voting. 62 in attendance, 6 in and 51 in. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 51.]] The amendment was not accepted. I do not have any warnings regarding non-compliance, so we can move on to a decision on the law as a whole. Please, you have the floor. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u251	If my initiative from the debate is taken into account that the summary table is being corrected in the editorial, then there is really no uncoordinatedness.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u252	Comrade Majnikov, have you expressed any doubts about the consistency? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u253	The summary table is not harmonised in writing with the tables adopted and I proposed in the discussion that the summary table be corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-27-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u254	That was explicitly said. Anyone else? Can we vote on the law as a whole? Okay. Please, we are voting on the law as a whole. 63 present, 53 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I find that the law is fully adopted. We're going to continue with the 18th. At the end of the day, this is the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We are at the amendment of the LDS MPs and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS to Article 4. We are voting on the amendment of these four groups to Article 4. 57 present, 45 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Hasn't he warned of non-compliance, so we can move on to a full decision on the bill? Okay. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. 58 present, 47 for and 6 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. We're at our final decision tonight. We'll proceed with interrupt 19. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of Information and Security Services. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services at first reading is appropriate for further consideration." Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on the proposal for a decision, please. 60 present, 58 for and one against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 10:00. I wish everyone a pleasant evening.
