ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Sonja Areh Lavrič, Aleksander Merlo, Lidija Majnik, Janez Podobnik, Franz Kangler, Ivan Bozič from 11 a.m., Villa Trofenik for the afternoon part of the session, Vojko Čeligoj, Igor Štemberger and Alojz Peterle from 11 a.m. Since we're going to be present, I respectfully request your attention. Please insert the cards and press the "quorum" button. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may have your attention, we will be able to determine the presence. We're picking up the presence! My request for attention, which, of course, would also show the real situation of Members and Members in the Chamber, has not yet been taken into account, so once again please, there are certainly many more of us in the Chamber. Since we're going to be able to determine the presence next time, please press the "quorum" button. We'll know the presence next time! There are 55 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Representatives of the government were also invited to attend today's meeting. I say hello to both of you. Today's continuation of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda, this is a motion for a resolution on the situation of the Slovenes as a substitute and the related tasks of the national and other factors of the Republic of Slovenia, then the assembly will move on to item 3 and in order to proceed. So we're going to move on to 2. At the end of the day, this is an evocative proposal for a resolution on the position of Slovenes living outside the Republic of Slovenia, a variety of Slovenes in exchange, and the related tasks of the national and other civil servants of the Republic of Slovenia. (SOLLUTION ON RELATIONSHIPS WITH SLOVENCH AROUND THE WORLD) The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Relations with Slovenians, in place and around the world, submitted the material for consideration. Does the representative of the commission want a word? The President of the Commission, Mr. Franz Puksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, Mr Minister, Secretary of State! A nice greeting also goes to the former Commissioner and the Secretary of the Commission, Mrs Barbara Sušnik. The Commission responsible for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world as a working body for monitoring and addressing the issue of indigenous Slovenian national minorities in place and Slovenes around the world and for reporting to the National Assembly on important issues in this field and for preparing proposals, conclusions and decisions. At its 1st meeting on 11 April 2001, it decided to draw up a resolution defining the relationship of the Republic of Slovenia to Slovenians worldwide, following the model resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries and the related tasks of the State and other factors of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the National Assembly in 1996. The Commission has therefore set up a special working body, which has met at eight meetings and has drawn up a draft resolution. This working body was led by Dr. Joseph Bernik. In this working body was also Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Jože Ašič, with my trifle and, of course, Secretary Barbara Sušnik. The draft was considered by the Commission at its 5th meeting, on 22 June 2001, and again at its 7th meeting, on 19 October 2001. In the meantime, in accordance with Rule 326 of the Rules of Procedure, the organisations of Slovenian expatriates and natives and institutions operating in Slovenia requested opinions, comments and proposals. This coordinated proposal was discussed at its 8th meeting on 22 November and adopted unanimously. That this area needs to be regulated has already been identified by the Commission in its previous mandate and has included in its work report the starting points for the preparation of such a resolution, and these starting points have also been taken into account. We have also taken into account arrangements in other countries where we have become familiar with the way we work, namely, how they care for their people in Switzerland, i.e. Switzerlanders abroad. And this is quite similar to what we have proposed in this resolution. Switzerland is well aware of the importance of Switzerland's presence around the world, both economically and culturally. A number of other examples of country-specific arrangements for the treatment of their emigrants are also reflected in the research carried out by the research sector of the National Assembly. In addition to individual countries, it also sets out the position of the Council of Europe, which calls on Member States to adopt measures aimed at improving relations with their people around the world and foresees similar measures as proposed by us in the resolution. A brief presentation of the resolution itself will now follow. The resolution is drawn up in the introduction and in the text of the resolution. The introduction of the resolution has four chapters: an assessment of the situation, the reasons for the adoption of the resolution, the objectives and principles of the resolution and the fourth, in the introduction, an assessment of the financial resources from the State budget and other consequences of the adoption of the resolution. In the text of the resolution it is a general part, then the authorities in the Republic of Slovenia, which are responsible for relations with Slovenians around the world, as the third time financial support and the fourth, the main areas of cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians around the world. In the introduction, we wrote down some of the most significant and important passages under the assessment of the situation. According to various estimates, he lives outside the Republic of Slovenia about 500,000 Slovenes or more than a quarter of all members of our nation. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in its Article 5 for the care of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries and for Slovenian residents and expatriates. Concern for Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries is already defined in the 1996 resolution. For other categories of Slovenians around the world, there are no general guidelines on the policy or attitude of the Republic of Slovenia towards them. The Constitution also provides in its Article 5 that Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship may enjoy special rights and benefits in Slovenia. This has to be regulated by the law. We have not yet adopted such a law, although it has been incorporated into the National Assembly, I think it has been about two and a half years. However, I hope that this adopted resolution will be the basis for the adoption of this law. The continuing, vital interest of the Republic of Slovenia is to preserve the national identity and identity of the Slovenian people. It is therefore necessary to establish a fundamental policy on this issue. The adoption of a resolution on Slovenians around the world will be an important step towards regulating Slovenia's relations with Slovenians around the world. The reasons for the adoption of the resolution are, in fact, already set out in the introductory part of the 'objectives and principles of the resolution'. The main objective of the resolution is to define the policy of the Republic of Slovenia based on constitutional obligations towards Slovenian expatriates and residents. The aim is also to create conditions for the return of Slovenians around the world and their descendants to their homeland. The principles of the resolution are as follows: The Republic of Slovenia is the home country of all Slovenians, no matter where they live or where they come from. The resolution refers to all Slovenes around the world. The Republic of Slovenia shall endeavour to act by consensus in this area. Cooperation should be coordinated and coordinated. And the assessment of the funding from the State budget and other consequences of the adoption of the resolution: The Republic of Slovenia allocates certain budget funds for the operation of Slovenians around the world, for the benefit of Slovenia and for strengthening contacts with Slovenia. The adoption of the resolution will not require any additional resources, but will indirectly affect the division already mentioned. Improving cooperation with Slovenians around the world would also increase the flow of fresh Slovenian capital and intellectual potential, which could bring some new dynamics into our economic growth restructuring processes; this seems quite important to us. So when we come to the resolution itself, to the text of the resolution, I have already mentioned at the outset that it consists of a general work where some general matters are written in three points. Second, the authorities in the Republic of Slovenia responsible for relations with Slovenians around the world. It should be pointed out in these bodies that the fundamental policy of cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians around the world is laid down by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia; that parliamentary parties seek agreement on the fundamental principles of the policy of the Republic of Slovenia towards the Slovenes worldwide. I am pleased to say that we have always followed this principle on the Committee for Slovenians in place and around the world. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the implementation of the cooperation policy of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians around the world. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall submit to the National Assembly an annual report on the activities of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of cooperation with Slovenians worldwide, with a proposal for a programme for the following year. In cooperation with Slovenians around the world, the planned and coordinated functioning of state and other authorities is necessary. Coordination is needed between national authorities and other institutions dealing with Slovenians in place and around the world. Financial support. The Republic of Slovenia financially supports the activities of Slovenians around the world, which aim to preserve and grow Slovenian national identity, culture and language, and to preserve cultural heritage. The funds shall be allocated in accordance with the legal provisions of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account certain principles. The first such principle is the principle of the preservation and development of the Slovenian community in the world and the strengthening of national consciousness. The second principle is the principle of a specific approach to an individual Slovenian community. The third principle is the preservation of the most important institutions of the Slovenian community. The following is the principle of maintaining activities that have been going on for a long time and the principle of connection with Slovenia and the principle of rational consumption and control of funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Fourthly, the main areas of activity of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians around the world are: the integration of Slovenians worldwide into the cultural, scientific, informational, economic, educational, sports and other areas of the Slovenian society. And a second time. Slovenia supports activities that contribute to the preservation and consolidation of the identity of Slovenians around the world, such as programmes for the learning of Slovenian language and the preservation and enrichment of Slovenian culture. This has been further divided into subsections 4.1 to 4.7. 4.1, preservation of Slovenian language and education. The Republic of Slovenia advocates the preservation and learning of Slovenian language among Slovenes around the world, both in Europe and in other continents in all periods, from preschool, primary, secondary, higher education and adults. Here is also the proposed amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to include universities and research organisations in Slovenia, which I think only complements and then complements this part of the preservation of the Slovenian language and the implementation of education with the ninth indent. Cultural cooperation and heritage preservation. The Republic of Slovenia advocates the preservation of Slovenian spiritual identity among Slovenes around the world and the development of a common Slovenian space. The economy and the science. The Republic of Slovenia pays particular attention to strengthening economic cooperation and integration in science and development, new technologies between Slovenians around the world and entities in Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia supports the meeting of Slovenian economists and Slovenian scientists from abroad and seeks to strengthen contacts and project cooperation with all Slovenian scientists abroad, including in terms of their expertise in bilateral or multilateral programmes for which Slovenia gives the initiative. Information. The Republic of Slovenia shall endeavour to make information available and to connect and cooperate in the field of information, both with regard to informing Slovenians worldwide of the developments in the Republic of Slovenia and with regard to information on Slovenians around the world in the Republic of Slovenia itself. Repatriation, citizenship and stateless status. It is likely that this point will need to be worked out and prepared after the resolution has been adopted, rather concrete projects and programmes. Of course, the basic orientation is the adoption of the resolution and the direction of the policy of the National Assembly, and then the realization, as we have already said, through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia is interested in returning Slovenians around the world to Slovenia, as well as in the settlement of their descendants. Particular attention should be paid to those who can contribute to the development of Slovenia. Involvement in the elections. It is therefore necessary to enable Slovenian citizens with permanent residence abroad to participate in the elections and to strive to overcome the problems that occur to Slovenian citizens abroad in the exercise of their electoral right. Integration into foreign policy. It should be mentioned here that in regulating bilateral relations with individual countries where our Slovenians live, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is endeavouring, taking into account their needs, to conclude social and health insurance agreements and other agreements already referred to in points 4.1 and 4.2, and in particular on mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates and other certificates of competence. The Republic of Slovenia shall endeavour to maintain or establish honorable consuls of the Republic of Slovenia in the countries where Slovenians live and to involve Slovenians worldwide in the work, the activity of diplomatic and consular and other representations of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a short walk across the resolution. Because I am for a speaker and I will not therefore prolong it, so I would come once again as chairman of the committee and say on behalf of, pardon, President of the Commission, and say on behalf of the Commission, I will take advantage of this on this occasion. And he said that we had received an opinion from the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, where he suggested that we define ourselves as one of the addresses. We had a longer address and a shorter address. The longer title spoke of a resolution on the situation of Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia, with the exception of Slovenians in place and the related tasks of the State and other factors of the Republic of Slovenia. But the short address says, a resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world. The Commission has identified itself as a shorter title by proposing a resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world. So we took the opinion of the secretariat into account. We have also received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where I believe it is necessary to point out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia itself notes that matters have not been settled in this area and somehow thanks the Commission for preparing this and, of course, proposing the adoption of this resolution in the National Assembly. At its meeting, when considering the opinion of the secretariat on legislation, the Commission adopted three further drafting proposals and also adopted an additional decision. The additional decision states that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should report to the National Assembly in accordance with Rule 277 of the Rules of Procedure on the implementation of the resolution on relations with Slovenians worldwide. I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that we adopt the proposed resolution by means of the proposed supplementary decision and the accompanying proposals, as agreed by the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world, also by colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Parliament, I believe, unanimously for our Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be presented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u4	Madam President! Dear colleagues, Members and Members! Ten years ago, this is said to be December 1991, we adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which in its Article 5 stipulates that the State is concerned about indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, Slovenian expatriates, residents and that it promotes their contacts with the country. In 1996, the National Assembly adopted a resolution defining relations with Slovenian minorities in place. In the field of relations with so-called emigrants and locals, Slovenia has not developed and adopted specific documents so far. I am therefore very pleased that today the National Assembly is considering a motion for a resolution that will define the fundamental policy of the Republic of Slovenia also to other Slovenians who live outside Slovenia and who have so far not been covered by any specific documents. The government addressed the motion for a resolution at its meeting, for the first time on 20 December of last year, and again this year on 17 January and this proposal supports. On the proposal of the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, we have adopted an amendment relating to Chapter 4. Here is proposed a smaller complement to the chapter on education and teaching of Slovenian language, by involving universities and research organisations to a greater extent, and by stressing the involvement of Slovenian researchers from abroad in the implementation of the national research programme. While we have been preparing the amendments together and when you have been preparing the proposals, the text of the resolution, our Slovenian office has been working with the Parliamentary Commission in place and around the world, as well as representatives of some other ministries; we have collaborated with the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture and Home Affairs. Opinions and proposals have also been transmitted by Slovenians around the world or by those who have been informed that this procedure for the adoption of the resolution is taking place in our country. I think it is very important that the National Assembly achieves some fundamental consensus that will contribute to better relations and cooperation with Slovenians around the world. The main orientations of the resolution follow the recommendations of the Council of Europe and its Parliamentary Assembly, which recommended that Member States prepare a programme of legislative options, political actions and various measures, administrative measures to improve relations with communities living abroad to facilitate the return of those who wish to return to their home country, and to improve the availability of information for nationals abroad on the development of their home country. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has also stressed that emigrants can play an important interlinking role between the two countries, and it is therefore necessary to ensure closer cooperation between governments, parliamentary delegations and competent associations of individual countries in strengthening the links with emigrants and to promote voluntary participation of emigrants in political, social, cultural life in the countries of origin, by ensuring adequate representation, electoral rights and representation through different worlds and other institutions. Several other countries, including European countries with a long democratic tradition, such as Switzerland and Italy - Mr Puksic has already talked about this before me - have very well-made relations with his people around the world. Today, after ten years of independence, Slovenia must no longer be viewed as having relations with Slovenians around the world from any ideological point of view. Our government certainly has no intention of sharing Slovenians with those who are closer or more distant, more ideologically suitable or less suitable. Or if I express myself with a more learned word, the Republic of Slovenia must have a non-discriminatory relationship with people living outside our borders, Slovenians living outside our borders. Of course, everyone has the right to his own political conviction, all our people outside the borders of Slovenia have the right to participate in the parties, to establish the parties, but of course this cannot be the content of the country's relations with the Slovenes around the world. This should focus on the common interest, the mutual interest, and therefore the resolution is as it is, and this is the subject of a speech in its preamble. I will not go into the content of the resolution because Mr Pukšič presented it, only about chapter four I would like to say something. Here is the basis of the area of cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians around the world, with the aim of keeping Slovenians around the world or, if not, becoming part of a single Slovenian space, and must be actively involved in Slovenian intellectual, cultural, economic, scientific, social potential or development. In the first place is, of course, the preservation of Slovenian language and education, with Slovenia advocating for the preservation and learning of Slovenian language among Slovenes around the world through measures such as providing textbooks for learning Slovenian, producing and implementing programmes for learning Slovenian remotely - this will, of course, be easier today - and of course, tools for learning Slovenian alone, as well as that Slovenia takes care of the training of teachers and provides them with financial support for this. The next area, which we thought was particularly important and which we particularly strongly support, is the area of cooperation, cultural cooperation and preservation of cultural heritage. In doing so, Slovenia takes care of the cultural activities of Slovenians around the world and their integration into the common Slovenian cultural space. Then I must say that the economic sector is becoming increasingly important. I think it is correctly stated that Slovenia pays particular attention to strengthening economic integration, cooperation in science to support the meetings of Slovenian economists and scientists from abroad. Some of this has been happening in recent years, and there should be more. Much attention needs to be paid to information, for during modern communications there is no longer an excuse for lack of mutual information and for ignorance. Sometimes, of course, some newspapers, Slovenian newspapers abroad publish things that are not after all according to actual events in Slovenia. This is our fault because we are not skilled enough and we are not up to date to inform about our events. Part of the shortcomings are covered by a magazine published by the government, "Slovenia Weekly", but I think we will have to think about other and even better publications and sources of information. I think it's a particularly up-to-date and very important chapter talking about repatriation. This chapter receives some special significance in the face of the crisis in Argentina, where, as we know, a significant number of Slovenians live. This crisis has shown that our country does not yet have adequate mechanisms to facilitate the return of those who wish to return. The resolution in this form, as it is, provides that Slovenia is interested in returning Slovenians to Slovenia. Well, I would like to say that right after the adoption of the resolution, we have started some concrete preparations immediately after we have received the text and in preparation for today's meeting or for today's session, that we have taken some concrete steps at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and have also given instructions to our embassy in Buenos Aires on this issue. We will collect specific data on the wishes or needs, the interests of the Slovenians living in Argentina, and we will make sure that these interests or desires are realized as possible. Some of the starting points, as we say, are already ready at the Slovenian office in place and around the world. As far as election participation is concerned. You know that the government recently forwarded to the National Assembly a bill on the registration of electoral law to a second hearing. Thus, the problems that have arisen in this regard will be addressed to the fullest extent possible. The resolution means the government's obligation to work towards the conclusion of social and health insurance agreements and other agreements with the countries where Slovenians live, and to work towards the establishment of honourable consulates in these countries, as my colleague Pukšič said in the end. I think that this institution of honourable consuls has been very welcome so far, both to the state and to the communities of Slovenians around the world. In any event, or after all, I would like to point out that the adoption of the resolution will not require further, at least at the moment I do not see this possibility or this need, the additional budgetary resources, but will, of course, indirectly affect the allocation of existing items in the budget in accordance with certain priorities of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. And if I say another sentence at the end. This resolution, in our view, marks the beginning of the final regulation of the attitude of the Republic of Slovenia towards Slovenian emigrants and emigrants, and I should say, or should express my hope that the National Assembly will support the motion for a resolution, together with the amendment we have drafted in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with members! The Slovenian People's Party supports the adoption of the resolution. I think it is a recent time, in this way we will also meet the obligations of Article 5 of the Constitution to the Slovenians in place, abroad, which we have not formally had for many years regulated. We will also allow the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world to have a legal act on which it will lean in its work. Because when we accepted the appointment last year, the establishment of a new commission, we were just deciding what this commission was going to do. However, once we have this resolution, it will not be necessary to think much anymore, but we will have the basis of the work of the Commission already set. It will also be easier for the Slovenian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to decide on the policy of the Slovenians in place and around the world. For today, when we have heard how many Slovenians are incarcerated, we can remember little of history a few hundred years ago, and we will find that the Slovenians have always paid a great blood tax. When the Turks arrived, many Slovenians fell, many people fell into World War I and World War II, but have 500,000 of their people elsewhere in the world, not in their own country, because I know that we are a nation that we have our own country, but it is bad. It is therefore right that we have a resolution. In this resolution, I would only point out that it will also be necessary to write a regulation for Slovenians who are not citizens of Slovenia. Because it's only then that we're actually going to have a proper relationship with everyone. And we will probably also then merge the 1996 resolution, the current and normative act on Slovenians without citizenship into one resolution or the Slovenians law, not just in place, but on Slovenians around the world. When adopting a resolution and when considering a resolution, a person sometimes encounters things that we have already agreed on and do not run. I will make a small comment on financial support, which is well distributed by ministries, in the government, what it takes to do something, but we have accepted the 2000 budget to build a television broadcaster in place, and no one has ever apologized for not having one yet. Secondly, what the Minister specifically said about electoral rights and the return of Slovenians to their homes. I think that this resolution is part of the first step on which the Slovenian can choose to return home instead. Because it says here we want him to come. Because if we don't have our wish, of course he won't come. Of course, our desire is not enough, and what Mr Minister has mentioned will also have to be arranged that the Slovenians, who have been in place today in countries that are not flourishing, will have the opportunity to develop with us, especially in these years, when we have so few Slovenian growth at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you. The opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world, as already in 1996 it supported the resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries. By adopting this important document, the National Assembly, as the legislative and supreme representative body of the State, will round up and shape the policy or attitude of the Republic of Slovenia towards all Slovenians living outside the boundaries of their homeland. As an important step forward in the adoption of the resolution on the Slovenians in place, the adoption of this resolution on the Slovenians around the world is an important step towards further regulating the relations of the country with all other relatives around the world, as it is known that about half a million Slovenians live outside their homeland, more than a quarter of all members of our people. The reasons for the expulsion of the Slovenian people were economic, political and personal. According to the Slovenian Encyclopedia, however, the beginnings of evictions from Slovenian territory during the period of anti-reformation or Catholic reconstruction. In addition, Slovenian territory is subject to the scope and duration of emigration between more prominent such areas in Europe. Such a great loss of population has certainly had a negative impact on the numbering or development of the Slovenian people. This is why it is important that, even at the highest level of state, the policy towards the Slovenians around the world, which the present resolution is intended for, and also from this historical point of view, it is important that, despite some concerns, the National Assembly has also set up a commission for Slovenians in place and around the world. At this point, I would like to express my conviction that it should be self-evident that the National Assembly should also be set up in future mandates, such as the Committee on Culture, Education and Science or the Committee on the Economy, including the Committee on Slovenians, in place and around the world. However, they will have an extremely important role to play in the implementation of the resolution and the implementation of the policy, as so far as the government and the competent ministries, especially the external and within it, the Office for Slovenians, both in place and worldwide, and the Ministry of Culture, Education and Science, the economy and internal affairs. It is therefore so important that the principle of equal treatment of all Slovenians is respected, regardless of their political affiliation. Therefore, the State must act by consensus and in accordance with the State's interest and leave the day-to-day interests at the side. The example of such work in the previous and current term of the National Assembly is certainly the competent commission of our congregation, as we have also seen with the reaction of our relatives among many visits between foreigners, residents and displaced persons around the world. The most massive was the eviction of Slovenians from the 1980s to the first world war, when, for economic reasons in particular, 300,000 Slovenes, or a third of the current natural increase in Slovenian territory, were displaced. Emigration continued after World War I. In addition to economic emigration, emigrants have also been joined by a number of coastal Slovenians, who have been evicted mainly because of Fascist decommissioning pressure. During World War II, the occupying forces deported many Slovenians, mainly from Styria and Koroška, to southern Yugoslavia and Germany. However, emigration immediately after World War II was characterized by political motives, which were then invoked by the expression political emigration, and later, particularly in Western Europe, they were also evicted for economic reasons, and in particular, there was a more recent process of leaving the education community, which we call "brain drain". Special concern must also be given to the Slovenians who live in countries that have emerged in the territory of the former Yugoslavia and today face major social problems, as well as the country's response to various crises in the world, such as the latest economic breakdown of Argentina, which has many of our fellow citizens living in. Throughout the period, Slovenian emigrants have maintained contact with their homeland through various evicted organizations and government authorities. Let me mention among the companies of Rafael's company in 1927, in 1951 the established Slovenian Emigrant Mato, the first president of which was the writer Tone Seliškar, and after 1990 the Slovenian World Congress and the Emigrant Society of Slovenia in the world. Support for societies that care about contacts with Slovenians around the world must also be strengthened in the future. It is also necessary to continuously provide and, where possible, increase funding for programmes aimed at the functioning of Slovenian institutions, organisations and societies in place and around the world, and in this context in particular for the preservation of Slovenian identity, language, culture and cultural heritage, thereby promoting cross-border cooperation in cultural, educational, scientific, economic and, of course, in all other areas. The resolution defines all the most important areas of cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians around the world, such as the maintenance of Slovenian language and education, cultural cooperation and heritage preservation, cooperation in the field of economy, science and information. In particular, I think of the important issues of repatriation, citizenship, the status of Slovenians without citizenship and the participation of Slovenian citizens in elections. In all these areas, however, the National Assembly and the Government, as a whole, have a great responsibility to relatives who have been forced by various historical, economic, political and personal circumstances to seek their second home outside their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia will be presented by Mr Bogomir Vnučec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary of State, National Assembly! We have already heard that Article 5 of the Constitution imposes on us the care of Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia. However, the resolution we are adopting today proves that we are serious and therefore welcome and support it in the youth party. In particular, the fact that the resolution focuses on the coordination of all those working for the Slovenes around the world and on the fact that the Slovenians outside our borders need our help and we need theirs. The fact is that our country's kind ambassadors and many others have been very helpful, this has been demonstrated by the recent past, and we hope to receive their help in the future. The content of the resolution in the youth party is assessed as good and appropriate, but this is a declaration act and we will only be able to assess the implementation of the provisions later. It's one thing to write interest, another to make it happen. The fact that a whole number of government offices have been involved in the drafting of the resolution promises greater financial support in the future, as this percentage is lower in the current budgets every year. We are particularly pleased with the 3rd item in the young party, thus the emphasis that Slovenian communities have different needs in different countries. This will enable more quality work and results. The aim is clearly set out in the resolution - to preserve Slovenian identity, language, culture where Slovenians outside the border have found a new home. The ways to achieve this goal vary according to where our fellow countrymen live. For example, in Sarajevo or Belgrade, the situation is certainly different from that in Argentina, and this is different from the situation in Ontario in Canada. Some have more money, some material goods, some few contacts, and the other way around. However, everyone is ours and deserves not only the attention and the resolution, but also the early adoption of a law that will legally introduce the country's obligations towards Slovenian emigrants.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Hungarian National Community Group will be presented by Mrs Maria Possonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u12	On behalf of the Hungarian National Community, I support the adoption of the resolution and I am pleased that this has happened. I believe that the home country of Slovenia has legal and moral obligations towards its emigrants, and I believe that the proposed resolution will make this task easier to achieve. The assistance and care of the matrix is invaluable to the preservation of the nationality identity and the mother tongue and outside the living members of the community are entitled to do so. The queen can't give enough to make it too much. For outside the living are always in danger because of the strong influence of the environment, they are always severely vulnerable and therefore need the greatest care of the wombs. That is why I want Slovenia to be an economically sound, democratic country in the community of nations recognised by the State with the respect of making these tasks easier to carry out. That the emigrants would also be proud of the spiritual and cultural values of their mother. For this is the strongest and most lasting bond between the womb and the outside living. I welcome the participation in this point of Foreign Minister Rupl and representatives of the Office for Slovenians around the world and instead, because this is also proof of the priority of our foreign policy. I only hope that the resolution will be a first step and that the Slovenian Parliament will also be able to adopt the law in order to preserve the reputation of emigrants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Ašič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u14	Madam Vice-President, Minister, co-workers and co-workers of the Foreign Ministry! Of course, we also support the resolution in the Group of Liberal Democracy. We are aware of the fact that a quarter of our people do not live in Slovenia and that we have already made declarations of concern for these people who for such or other reasons are not directly related to their homeland. In the LDS Group of Members, we are particularly pleased that this resolution has actually resulted in a great consensus among all those responsible in our country to make a constitutional provision on this concern for Slovenians around the world with dignity. Thus, the Commission for Slovenians around the world and its working group actually had the greatest assistance in the external ministry, in the Office for Slovenians around the world and, of course, in all the ministries that directly cooperate with Slovenians around the world through the implementation of the state budget, in particular with the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and Sport and others, of course, we expect that the Ministry of Economy will also become more closely involved in the active role, in particular in the economic field, which may have been most neglected so far. The resolution will certainly be a good basis for the adoption of certain legislative acts that will allow the principles that we will certainly adopt today to be implemented in the future, in particular electoral law or the principle of gradual return to the country. In the parliamentary group of liberal democracy, we have, of course, highlighted a fact that is present after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a special concern for the Slovenians who live on the soil of the countries that have emerged since the collapse of our former country. It is Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Macedonia. Surely it is the fact that we have left the indigenous minorities, as well as the Slovenians, who, for economic or political reasons, left in the beginning or in the middle of this century and in the previous centuries and had to leave our homeland, took care of it in time, and not bad, our common country, is said to have been before independence. But the fact is that the Slovenians, a large part of the Slovenians, have actually lost more than 10 percent of those living outside our borders today after the Slovenians have gained independence. And I think it is precisely because of this fact, because these Slovenians deserve special care, they are left without a country, in fact without wanting and without anyone expelling them, which is simply left out of their homeland after we have made our request and have also made it about our own statehood. Last but not least, in the Group of Liberal Democracy, we have always stressed that we must take a balanced view of the Slovenians in our country of origin, of our own citizens, as well as of this quarter of the people of our people referred to in this resolution, because it would never have been repeated in history that the people of our country and members of our people should again leave and create a new group. It is said that neither the economic nor political reasons for leaving Slovenia will ever be created again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u16	Madam Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we read our Constitution, Article 5, we find a very interesting conclusion. This article states that the country protects human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rights of indigenous Italian and Hungarian national minorities, Slovenian national minorities outside the country, Slovenian emigrants and Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship. This order is probably unique in the history of the constitutions around the world. I am telling this because I think that we Slovenians are extremely open to the needs of those who need help and protection, and I think that this is probably the reason for this order. Of course, one wonders if this has brought us anything. Unfortunately, I need to find out that nothing. Let's say we can't tell the world what we have in our constitution, even if we want to show, and I think we should show more. I won't say who admits it if it's a matter of reciprocity. For example, we have just learned that the Italian Interior Minister has issued a decree to abolish bilingual documents or ID cards. Well, we can go north and see what happens every day. I welcome, personally and on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, the fact that, finally, after many years, this resolution has come to light. The resolution for foreigners around the world has been a few years ago, but we have by no means reached this present resolution, but I am glad that we have come to this. In my opinion, the resolution is a good one, a basis for further development and above all a basis for the State to try to have this as a basis for actual actions, not for nice words. Look, we've been seeing each other for 10 years, and more, with this problem of our evicted people, yet we don't know how many of us, how many of us there are in the world, where they are, how many of them are and what their condition is. It seems to me that it is no longer appropriate to speak, in a regulated country, about 500,000 of us. I highly doubt that. If so, let us find out, and I will be very happy to find out and also to do something useful for them. The current commission in the Slovenian National Assembly, both in place and around the world, and the Slovenian Office in the Foreign Ministry, have made a good start this year, and we hope that this cooperation will continue. However, if we think that we are doing a special service to the Slovenians around the world, which is not up to our people, we are wrong. Look, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe started dealing with its emigrants, with the European Community's emigrants, and they also started collecting and publishing some literature six, seven years ago. If I recall correctly, one of these consultations was attended many years ago by Mr Jožef Školč as President of the National Assembly. Later there were several initiatives in this direction, but there is nowhere to track Slovenia's participation. However, in 1999, the Council of Europe issued a recommendation, I think that recommendation 1410 was about the links between Europeans living outside their home countries. Here are some very interesting suggestions, which we sometimes thought were somewhat exotic and, of course, are still not arranged for us today. The last document in this direction is a motion for a resolution put forward by the Council of Europe last year, on 18 December, which continues to reflect on the resolution I have just mentioned. We Slovenians too will have to become more actively involved in this work, so that we do not miss the things that are happening in this area and that we will not plow the ice into a new or invent a new bike. For example, this 1999 resolution has some interesting things. He said it would be necessary to have a committee at Council of Europe to discuss this and a committee of Europeans living abroad. That's also an interesting idea. They also suggest that voluntary emigrants or expatriates be involved in activities in the home country. They talk about political, social and cultural life in their homeland. Our declaration is succinctly avoided by the word 'political', but I think because we are also talking about social activity, that it also belongs inside. The resolution is quite broad and covers many things that have not been in our thinking so far. But this is just the beginning. Finally, Article 5, which speaks of a special law for Slovenians around the world, is still awaiting enforcement. In fact, I'd say almost a constitutional scandal that we didn't have enough political will, knowledge or anything to solve this thing. I don't know what the Constitution is for, if not for enforcement. Look, the Slovenian Citizenship Act. This law was adopted about ten years ago. Many objections or incentives to change this law and help the Slovenes around the world to less bureaucratic demands have never moved anywhere. Many say that these are serious legal problems, and we cannot do this for one reason or another. My opinion is that if we are really going to change this law to give the Slovenians a better chance of being a citizen, then we must do everything we can. I don't know how we come to the conclusion that we can't do that. A lawyer who has his own client says we can't do that, but instead of telling him how to do it, he's not worth it. I think we should put ourselves in the category to say "we'll do it" and then whatever we do. If we can't do that, then I don't know why we have different legal services. The resolution will be a test for this national assembly, for the ministries, for the government, how much they take it seriously. One thing the resolution cannot change is the mentality of our people. The emigrants are anyway, I will not go for reasons, get a call in Slovenia, maybe slightly less those who are displaced in the former countries of Yugoslavia, but this accent is negative. These are some strange Slovenians. I still hear them often. But we should think about one thing. Slovenians around the world, whether they go out for any reason, political, economic and so on, are, in fact, our success story. Most of us don't know, but it's a success story, an experience in a completely foreign environment, to succeed there, it's a success story that hasn't been written yet. I hope it does. Let me also mention that this Commission has taken the work seriously and I thank all the members of the Commission for supporting this resolution so regularly and strongly. I hope that such cooperation will continue. However, I would like the National Assembly to accept this commission as a regular body and that it will not be necessary to wait six months each year or something similar for us to remember the Slovenians around the world. Let me mention a few other things. See, Slovenians around the world are not some folklore interest when it is once a year to take a good look, invite them to Parliament, but they are a living Slovenian community, which we have to help them or the state has to help them to stay alive Slovenians. That's pretty hard, of course. As a result, we also discuss with the Slovenian Office in the world and with the Ministry how some basic information about our Slovenians could be obtained. If we go after the old August, we work more or less on our minds. Working on the mind is also useful, but it is not the most successful and the money we give for the finished things is not the best used. Therefore, it would be necessary to consider how to really study the problems of our evicts and how to really help them. Since we have a Slovenian country, in many countries our representations, consulates and the like have been. Some work very well and are successful, have good contacts with the Slovenians in that environment, but others are not so eager. Some people don't know enough about this. They hide behind the formula, czech, our representation is here to represent the country, not to represent Slovenians around the world. Of course, they forget that we are citizens. Well, specifically, I mentioned that it would be necessary to attract a younger generation of emigrants. Unfortunately, this part of our eviction was released from the Citizenship Act because they exceeded the age limit in which a person could still be granted citizenship after, if I may say so, a rapid procedure. Among these, we have many young experts who would be wise to invite them to Slovenia and give them the opportunity to develop their talents and use them for the benefit of the Slovenian state. At least if they do not come here to Slovenia, they could be able to develop areas in which they can help the Slovenians in their country. The resolution also discusses the financial assistance of expatriates and also the need to pay teachers who teach Slovenian. However, this is now being done. Although we have a country for ten years, although we have seen the success of some schools around the world and their students, how they speak Slovenian perfectly, nothing has been done for these people so far. It's a shame they don't have a union to take on them, because they are teachers in the United States of America, Canada, Australia and Argentina, who get some school help, but they haven't been paid for their work, even though they've been teachers for 50 years. This could not have happened here in our society, but we allow it to happen to our people around the world. I do not know now whether the Ministry of Education sees any administrative problems or any other that hinder progress in this area. I have repeatedly warned about this on our committee, but apart from some nice words, I have seen nothing. Another area is the economy. In the economy, I must say, we were relatively unsuccessful. And if you think about it today, even though we have a lot of companies around the world that are capable, good, quality, first-class, nothing happened. Even in people who, say, gave their own plane when various representatives of the state went there, even though he might have come here, nothing happened. Here I think there is too much self-containment in our economic field. Of course, there is also a pious desire for people from the world to engage in diplomatic service, but this is on a level that I think will not be very successful. Such a concept should be broadened and we could probably make progress in this area. I can say that Slovenians around the world are very hardworking people and do not complain easily; they are individuals who are exceptions, but generally they do not hold back from complaining. I am pleased that Minister Rupel has taken up the idea that I have discussed with him to obtain information from Argentina about the situation there. Interestingly, so far we have not had any complaints, petitions, or anything like that. These people have gone through so many devaluations and everything else, an economy that has repeatedly crashed, one after the other, but they don't ask for help. But I think there's a couple of charitative institutions there, like, say, two homes for old people that should be supported if necessary. As I understand it, Mr Minister, that will be considered. The other thing is this. Some countries would set an example for Furlania if they once reviewed how countries care for their displaced people. About ten years ago, I met a law they had prepared for their exiles, where they also allowed old people who wanted to come to their homeland before they died to look at it or stay there to die. I think it's probably one of the best laws I've ever seen in this direction. But I can't say if this marriage still works and how it works. Slovenians around the world have contributed greatly to the recognition of the Slovenian state. Although we somehow know this platonically, unfortunately it was once a one-way trip, if you give, come on, but in return there was nothing. It is also not surprising that some immigrants today hesitate if Slovenia has to help financially or anything - because, thank God, these options or needs are not so much - because they have seen that this is a one-way trip. I have spoken about this matter several times with the Foreign Minister when he was an ambassador to the United States and before. So one would say that we have to change this situation. And finally let me say this. When we enter the European Union, we are about two years old, we must also consider what this will do for our people around the world. Slovenian citizenship will certainly enable them to work or study and so on in the European Union, but the same as for our foreigners, the country should consider what are the problems, the opportunities, the benefits and so on for our people around the world. After all, they are our people, and we must also think about them when we enter into various international connections. I welcome the resolution, I welcome the willingness of this national assembly to accept it and thus do a great service, a great step forward. On this basis, we will continue to build on our improved relations and the assistance that the expatriates need to help themselves to stay Slovenian, for no amount of money can make a Slovenian or a conscious Slovenian. I hope this National Assembly understands this and will build on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Our Group also welcomes the preparation and adoption of a resolution on Slovenians around the world. In doing so, the National Assembly will adopt an important document that will define our responsibility and our attitude towards fellow citizens living around the world, as it were, on all continents and almost all countries. Today, we are making it easier to assess this position of our relatives when we have our country when we are aware of it. So far we have always been somehow subordinated to others, and we have always been under some pressure from others to this area where the Slovenians live. These are also historical conditions, why so many people in the past have left their homeland, their home, their land, with the belly behind the bread of the world. This did not just take place far back, even after World War II, even in our formerly united country of Yugoslavia. I also remember people, and I know them today, living in Canada, Australia, Germany, and elsewhere. When there was no work with us when there was no bread, they were looking for their own piece of a better life elsewhere. Today, when foreigners coming from behind the Krapats come from Asia and I don't know where, and we sometimes act xenophobic on Slovenian soils, we should remember that once our relatives, our neighbours, because of the same living conditions or similar conditions went across the border. Many have even lost their lives at the border. Therefore, today is really the time to define ourselves through this document on these issues. I say hello. I have to pay tribute to the drafters of this resolution and to the parent committee which led this act to today's meeting in the National Assembly. We will support this resolution, and we want it not only to be the declaration document we have in the archive, but also to enter into life, to carry it out with all our responsibility and to fulfil our relationship and our duty to the relatives of the world with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. The opinion of the Socialist Party Group will be presented by mag. A visor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. A nice greeting to the representatives or representatives of the government. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is clear from this point and, of course, also from a fairly broad reflection of all the parliamentary groups that it was the decision of the National Assembly, that although it was only late in March 2001 to set up a commission for Slovenians around the world, the right decision is, of course, a final document before us after ten years of independence, a resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world, prepared by the Commission in this composition and in a rather short time, so it goes by all congratulations and also public notice that this is the right way and that this Commission must also remain in the future and always as the working body of this national assembly. We believe that the proposed resolution, which, of course, will be supported by the Social Democratic Party, is a very good and proper basis for law or for the legal regulation of this area, or for the Slovenians in the world without Slovenian citizenship, since it is also the basis for this law in Article 5 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Last but not least, we get a resolution on Slovenians around the world only after ten years of independence, it also points to a rather strange word, a strange attitude or strange treatment of these Slovenians around the world by the Slovenian government and also the ruling teams of this national assembly, as it shows that they are people who are not identical to the Slovenes in the place or even the Slovenes in this country or even are somehow discriminated against and their situation was somehow almost deliberately neglected and inadequately saved. This document finally gives us one clear recognition that these are our people, that they are the people we have to count on in the country, and this resolution has made it clear that these people can count on us as well. The latter is particularly relevant in recent events in Argentina, where there is a clear example of how the home country must watch and create certain conditions for our people, this is called Slovenians without citizenship, to also make it possible and at the same time to provide some normal conditions for our country as well. The attitude of the Slovenian country towards our people around the world is important mainly because of modern trends, mainly due to trends in globalisation, erasure of borders and thus certainly preserve the national identity and identity of the Slovenian people, which is the first and main element of Slovenian national interest, which has recently been so exposed to the topic. We hope that the resolution will also come to light in action and that we will also get the legal regulation of this problem as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you. I now think we have heard representatives of all the parliamentary groups. I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Tone Partljič, then Mr Jožef Jerovšek, and then Davorin Terčon, signed up for the debate in writing. Mr. Partlych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u22	Madam Vice President! Dear colleagues, I hope you won't mind if I especially welcome Madam Secretary of State Magdalene Truck, who has already been my mayor. In a way, I am also addressing the President and Vice-President of the Commission. Although Mr Sok said in one of my discussions once that I like to discuss something by apologizing and doing nice things in the beginning, and then, if there's only a way to do it, I am sometimes incorrect. All my discussion will try to be completely friendly and constructive. Where I'm going to be critical or ironic, I'm just going to make it clear. I'm going to iron out some of the formulations. So my main discussion will be that I will not say something more editorial and then I will pass on my amendments, which will be somewhat more editorial. Nevertheless, it seems to me that sometimes the formulations, however willing or unwilling, reveal the state of the spirit in some way. And if I go somewhere else in the formulation of any paragraph, let me say that of course I am also a teacher of Slovenian and I am a writer, when I put my text in the theatre, the teacher invites me and says to me, "You said that your heroes will speak narratedly, and then they use, say, foreign words instead of pronouns. So, it's a purely normal process to make it happen so that no one would think I'm speaking sublimely. On the one hand, it is clear to me that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u23	Mr. Partlych, excuse me, is your cell phone in the works? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u24	I'll try to turn it off if I can. It is clear to me that we are adopting a resolution and one of the resolutions. Although the text of the resolution, and if you are not offended, also our appearances so far are a little in the style of continuity; if we have received from the top some things, then individual organisations have said, we agree, too, we agree, we agree. So, here's some kind of thing that we all think is necessary and nice to get. Mr Bernik, although I do not have the right to politicize and I will not, for example, open up - some others too, but he is the most - actually some very important and fatal dilemmas that cannot be - and I think we should make too much of a resolution if we accept your comments - but in fact, they are a guide to the law and to what the resolution foresees, some further guidance from individual bodies. Such a, little joke, the comment is that, on the front page of the text we have, the motion for a resolution in the introduction only in the last paragraph states for the first time that it is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to preserve Slovenia's identity, culture, language, outside Slovenia. When you take this text into your hands, you will see that this formulation, the preservation of Slovenian identity, language and so on, repeats itself about fifteen times in this file. I don't think it's necessary to keep doing this because we're actually talking about it. The question is also whether it is the syntagm that is made up of foreigners, a national identity, which may be a national identity, but we are all accustomed to it. Just keep scaring with this national identity, keeping the language and so on, I think, for the first time, you will see pleonazem, and for the second time, I have had the opportunity to be a lot among Slovenes around the world, once with some theatre group for a month in Australia, and because I am now engaged in some motivation reading even after schools that are not in Slovenia, I happen to come there many times. And I attended three times, unfortunately not last year, when, for the first time, I was there, Madam Secretary of State, but earlier with Mrs Romano Logar, once at her expense, once at the expense of the reading mark and once at the expense of the national assembly, she was consulted by all teachers, presidents of societies and all priests in Germany, where they talked about the problems of Slovenia after two or three days, the problems they have with the state of Slovenia or their own problems. I assure you that in these six days when I have been in intensive discussions, not one word has fallen from the natives, the problem of national identity, language and cultural preservation. I'm sure it has to be, I've warned them about it, they're doing it, they're just not calling it that. They were much more interested in far more practical problems. Above all, I must say that it has always been a little difficult for me because I have listened to the ordinary great criticism of the country of Slovenia all day. Of course, people come to tell you what's bothering them and all kinds of discontent. More than once, and perhaps from this point of view, I would also point out that the Ministry is connecting or through which Slovenian societies operate, I have even witnessed a rather unfair performance by the representative of the evict mother of Ljubljana, with the director of this office, who was not even there, I would say that there is very little talk about these big resolution issues when they meet them. [[...]] I know the resolution has to be like this. Well, I would warn you in some places where I say that language may already be issuing some kind of opinion. Here's my suggestion. See, if anyone is - I don't believe that this is exactly everyone - I will return to the first page, on the third page it says: "The resolution refers to all Slovenes around the world, regardless of political affiliation, the place where they are, or the cause of departure from Slovenia." If only such a formulation remains, we lose in some way what some colleagues, those Slovenians who stayed in the New Sad, Macedonia and so on, because they did not leave Slovenia. I've suggested a formulation that I'll pass on if you don't mind. The resolution refers to all Slovenes around the world, regardless of their political affiliation, the place where they are located, the place or the reason for leaving and staying outside Slovenia. Because they simply found themselves there, as many Czechs found themselves after World War I. I worked in the theater, Souček, Šedlebauer, are like Czechs. And for example, since there was no more country, they had no contact. Second. Well, look if I'm pointing out this kind of pleonasm. See paragraph 5 on the first page of the motion for a resolution. "The continuing vital interest of the Republic of Slovenia is, the preservation of the national... This is stated twice in one paragraph with five lines, "the preservation of the national identity, the identity of the Slovenian people." It is therefore in the interest of Slovenia to preserve Slovenian identity, cultural and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] language and so on, also outside Slovenia. I put this formulation together here once, and then I transferred it to the Republic of Slovenia and outside. But I am saying this because this resolution will be read but also by people who are around the world. I understand that with the development of language and with the development of the country, there is a novelty. But our resolution novice won't be near them. They won't understand him at some point, let's say, see how hard it is to understand the third paragraph on the third page. Or why make it so complicated? "Further steps are expected to produce more detailed guidelines and law-making." Why, "further steps are expected to be law-making and guidance." If they were for anything, they should write "by 2003 the responsible government services must prepare guidelines and prepare a law". But if we don't already have a term that might be useful, maybe at least some formulation that further steps are going to be expected to be made, or the vocabulary isn't exactly going together. I just dared, if we finally decided to have someone do a editorial review of the text, I'd dare suggest it. Look. There's one more thing that I think I'm asking in my own way, well, on the fourth page. [[...]] Maybe I don't know. It refers to some unity in the performance of Slovenian associations, which cooperate with state money with Slovenians around the world. Most of the funds are provided within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Office for Slovenians in place. In addition, companies in Slovenia are financed through the Office [[Slovenian Congress, Slovenian Emigrant Matica, Emigrant Society".]] I don't know if the Slovenian Congress is a society. If it is not a society, I fear that it is not a society, that it is organized otherwise, and also an evicted mother, I do not know whether it is a society in particular, we should write societies and associations, or simply those authorities that care about it. I said it was possible to think about these too many identities. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Just let me find her. And yet, as I have said, I deeply appreciate that the Commission, which we have really set up late, is probably with some energy from the president who wants to show how meaningful this is and I fully support it here. So he thinks it's something we should accept by acclamation together. It doesn't seem so tragic to me if someone has any thoughts or if they don't support it that way. I don't think that's against the point. Why should we clap so unanimityly and unanimityly and not say, no difference, not plurally just now and establish it. It seems to me that a controversial debate on this matter is very useful. I'm very happy, and don't mind me saying that in this marriage, and I'd like to say that because I'd like to explain something back. It may even seem hypocritical to someone, but of course it's not, I wouldn't talk anymore. I am very glad that in our National Assembly there are colleagues who can be told that they have come in some way from Slovenians around the world. When I had one discussion about Mr Bajuk's takeover of the government, all I said was that it seemed to me that with one or two votes, even those who had previously voted a little differently until that day and then otherwise, this turn of the end of the continent did not seem convincing to me that it would be better to wait for the elections. Otherwise, I think it's great that we have these people between us. I thought a dirty comment about the knowledge of Slovenian language, and our knowledge of the locals is not always brilliant. However, I think it is a very solid knowledge of all colleagues who came from where.But you can see that in some problems, as well as in today's, they have a really different experience, a different dawn than and from this point of view, it seems to me that our national assembly is becoming normal. Of course, I agree that we need this commission. But it may be the most normal Slovenia when it no longer needs a special commission to keep an eye on it, but it will be mechanisms for assistance or cooperation, because it is not only about assistance. When I said earlier that there were very few flying words among them about national identity, preservation of language and so on, but there are many more words because I am here from Maribor, they were all "symphals" that they wanted to cooperate with the country, that they gave their money to Dadas in Maribor and Zdenex, but they are more concerned about how our country actually works higher than they do, or it does not accidentally bring them around. [[...]] I don't know, Mr Bernik, because I don't know, and I haven't been around the world, what is the position of Slovenian teachers. In Europe this is well regulated, I don't think I can speak for another. It's well regulated. I think that the country, the school ministry, will also now come, I am also invited among them, teachers back to Slovenia, where they have these seminars and like to attend them. Here I would have only one comment, if you don't mind me, in the end, precisely from this point of view, when we mention what the state should offer, certain funds are provided within the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education. When we then list, it seems to me that besides manuals, internets and so on, we should list the books of the Slovenes. The natives are not used to it, I also think that we should have one bigger Pets, I speak of course conditionally, Slovenians around the world, although you have already warned in some way that they have it declassified and that perhaps, I know that they are sensitive, that we need to be careful about this term. [[...]] I'm thinking, like, when they're coming home. They're having a really hard time there. They can't go to the theater. He may not even know where he is or how to buy a card or how to get in. That's how they sue me because they know I'm writing some games where it's fun, but they tell me more than once, and I want to, but I don't know how to get there. They're not used to buying books. They buy countless "skull concrete", constantly repairing these empty houses that they have here, the book they expect to be given by the state of Slovenia. I always carry books full of suitcases, I must say that Slovenian publications are very tolerant if I say that they are Slovenians around the world, they give me new books, very suitable. But as they say, let's say these trainings to buy books for their libraries or for themselves, they simply don't have these habits, because even Slovenians don't have them because of the price of the book. That is why I would ask that where it is listed, what is offered: manuals, textbooks to include Slovenian books. It is different to take the Slovenian book, which is a tense conscience, from the manual in free time. I think it's very important. After all, you know, because Slovenian books stand, the boundaries of my language are the borders of my world. It seems to me that Slovenians should devote as much attention as possible to this. We did it last year, I'm talking about a reading badge, back in Muenchen, in the biggest, I'd dare say, the world library of the children's book to remake a policy or department of Slovenian books that will stand there for about two years. If our people do not borrow books there, they will withdraw the books again, and will give up the books of those nations, which they read a great deal there. I ran into another problem, and here I'm ironic a little bit of myself when we're about to have some acclamation and so together and we all agree. We're sometimes very nervous if they don't match outside. We would like to be here for a multilateral system, for various political definitions. [[...]] But when we get out, we're totally unhappy if some people want to have a school in a church association, others in society, then some people don't even meet each other. It happened to me that I carried 30 books for one school, it's not so important where they just got into a fight with society, and those around the church, a teacher who doesn't communicate with society, didn't want to come and take the books. I think it's calming down a little bit, but I think we should be kind of tolerant. But this is also happening, I don't know if this is part of the resolution, but also our political activists are actually somehow connected outside in a special way, not in the interest of national interest, but on some other initiative, perhaps leadership or whatever. I believe that this is part of the resolution, but it seems to me that there is some general cultural political awareness that this interest is simply over this interest. I would only dare to make some of my proposals to simplify this resolution, which I am sure is completely unnecessary in many ways. [[...]] If you say something 15 times in one text, it doesn't get very convincing anymore. And, uh, some simplification so our people can understand. That we should really follow some implementing act - you remember that last summer was a Slovenian, I think it was written by Suša, from Australia, she wrote one long article in Del when we set up a commission here. I'm sure it's her position, of course. And she said, "We don't need any commission. We get visited every so long by a delegation. They come here to watch if we're still alive and talk about our interests. We need someone to help us, and we need resources to be able to act well." That's not my opinion, I've read it, and I'm sure one of you read it, too. I am saying that we must take one step from the resolution then to make concrete matters as soon as possible. This is urgent and necessary, but we will not wait too long for this second step. I would even have thought, Mr President of the Commission, as this text says, that the government is obliged to report, would have thought that, along with what we could write, the Commission is also obliged to report to the National Assembly at any time as these things continue to develop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Partljič, given that you have announced the amendments, and it is also possible to submit them by the end of the general debate, please submit them. Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič wishes to replicate the implementation of Mr Partljič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I'm going to say, I don't want to replicate as much as two, three things just to clarify. The amendment is possible, of course, but the text of the resolution, i.e. the text of the resolution, most of the comments made by Mr Partljič, refer to the introduction. In fact, the introduction is an introduction to the resolution and this is not a resolution. This will not be the content which, even if you wish, will be officially published as a resolution, but the resolution is only what begins after the text of the title of the resolution. This was also my presentation and therefore I went through the introduction on purpose, because the whole text of the resolution is explained. Last but not least, for a few details, let's say in terms of the objectives and principles of the resolution, second indent, 'the resolution concerns all Slovenes around the world, regardless of political affiliation, the place where they are or the reason for leaving Slovenia', and so on - this could even be part of the preamble resolution, but we are in the preamble, I said, last but not least at eight sessions of this commission, which prepared it, recorded it in full respect of the diversity and with a proposal addressed to the future. So, from that work, this is actually what will be in the resolution itself and what is in the text of the resolution. So there are probably fewer comments as far as this is concerned. Well, the explanation for that part, so the continuities, "they did something upstairs and now they're sending it." No, far from it. In the opening, I have told you who has participated in the preparation of this resolution. All DKPs, namely Argentina, Australia, Bosnia, Canada, Hungary, Switzerland and so on, were sent and received answers and prepared, their text for the resolution. We have, of course, introduced this to the greatest extent possible, which has been prepared for the resolution. Of course, Slovenia cooperated from individual ministries to institutes and institutions that deal with Slovenians in place and around the world in one way or another. So much for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has been given to you, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u28	Can I just replicate?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u29	Here you go, Mr. Partlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u30	All I'm going to do is make those amendments on the supplement to make the books, and the rest of them don't belong to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I welcome the adoption of the resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world, because I believe that a declaration act, which is also of symbolic value, is urgently needed. Due to a lack of clear status and some details, the position of Slovenians who live around the world or who do not even have Slovenian citizenship and also because of the symbolic nature of such an act is not sufficiently clear enough to send the Slovenians around the world a clear message that they are a respected part of the Slovenian nation. Slovenians around the world certainly faced greater problems than other emigrants, members of other nations who had their own nationality. It was only 11 years ago that we gained our own statehood and with our own statehood that the position and attitude of the Slovenians towards their own nation certainly changed. When we became a nation, of course, Slovenians around the world expected us to solve more quickly and successfully the status issues related to Slovenians living around the world. But we've been a little slow. However, this Commission, which is very much in favour of it, has only brought this resolution into the National Assembly and I must say that I hope that in all the subsequent governments, in the coming parliaments, this awareness of the importance of our relationship with Slovenians around the world will be more present than it was at the beginning of this mandate. In preparing the coalition treaty, there was obviously no awareness that these relations were important that the commission for foreigners and Slovenians around the world is also important in this Parliament, at least at the present time, and I think it will be for a while. As a result of all this, while I am praising and agreeing with the resolution, it would have come to my mind that I felt it necessary to put what is described as the principles of the resolution in the preamble to the resolution. I have now learned from the President's words that such ideas and such awareness have been that these things should have been in the preamble, but that they have then decided on a softer variant, a less precise, less clear option, if this could have caused disagreement and only controversy here in the National Assembly. I must say, that surprises me. I would expect the Slovenians, especially the Members, to be able to face their own history, which was not always beautiful, which sometimes also led to the unnecessary number of Slovenians to leave their own country. I think it would be good in some way if this resolution could start in some way as follows: Realizing that it is precious to all Slovenians, knowing that the precious and desirable part of the Slovenian people is all Slovenes and all descendants of Slovenes who are aware of their Slovenian roots. In fact, I think it would be a matter of stressing that regardless of political affiliation, the place where they are and the reason for leaving Slovenia, in order to send an important symbol and to help avoid sharing in our diaspora in the future, which we know was deliberately encouraged in the second half of the previous century by the then regime in the former common country. In recent years, we have given ourselves up somehow too much hope and confidence that, at least on European soil, entry into the European Union will automatically solve all the problems that Slovenians living outside Slovenian ethical space have. Events around us and also in Europe have shown us quite rigorously lately that all roads will not be so smooth that the status issues in a united Europe will not be resolved automatically and automatically. As a result, the constant concern and constant presence of Slovenian policy to listen to the needs of Slovenians is all the more important. And finally, other countries do the same. We know that the Republic of Hungary has adopted a special law, which even the Venice Commission considers to be politically controversial in some parts, to be cut by European legislation. However, if we are to look from the Hungarian state's point of view for their citizens around the world, we must, of course, note the extraordinary importance given by the neighbouring Hungarian country to its counterparts, its diaspora, which does not live within Hungary. For this reason, I hope that this resolution will help to raise the awareness of all Slovenians around the world, especially of us here in our home country, that we will know with our awareness, that our knowledge will help to ensure that the Slovenians around the world are constantly receiving adequate attention, proper status, and that we will be aware that, as we say, our best ambassadors. We must be aware of the extraordinary importance Slovenians have had around the world in setting up our statehood. As a result of this knowledge of the work and presence of Slovenians around the world and their contribution to the countries concerned, as well as the contribution to their homeland, this will have to be deliberately increased, this knowledge, through our school, which does not do enough, and through Slovenian politics. Look, we should plan, the country as such, to make sure that every famous Slovenian who has worked around the world is more present in our consciousness and more present in the consciousness of the countries and people at the ends of the world where he worked. For example, Bishop Baraga worked in North America among the Indians. It would be wrong for anyone in Slovenian politics to think that it is because efforts to ratify it are only the problem of the Slovenian Roman Catholic Church. This is in the utmost national interest. For if this status were achieved, it would greatly contribute to awareness, to the identity of Slovenians, to the international identity of Slovenian culture and Slovenian cultural heritage. Of course, there are many more of these cases. That the knowledge of the fundamental corners of the Slovenian nation or even of the ethical space is extremely low, we can be sure of every day almost, so to speak, when - say - we notice in some shows that when Špeter Slovenov appears that practically people who are viewed above average participate in such shows have not heard of it. And guilty or responsible for not doing everything or not doing everything, is the Slovenian state. We have also adopted, say, a law on improving the sound of Slovenian radio and the signal of Slovenian television, but this law is not being implemented. Last week, I heard through the media that when the traditional New Year's meeting of the Venice Slovenians was here in the Soča Valley, where Minister Rupel also performed, they warned that the Slovenians in the Videm region and in these areas did not hear. It is a shame that I, the National Assembly no longer insists that these funds, which are not so large, would be found without concern if the Slovenian State were aware of the importance of this concern, the importance of the Slovenian word and the images from the homeland among Slovenian citizens. If this awareness existed, if this responsibility existed in Slovenian politics, then we would not have repeatedly warned that, at least in this area, the laws adopted should be complied with. I would not be particularly specific about these chapters right now, because I think appropriate solutions are well-designed. Of course, we will have to upgrade this resolution with legal solutions. This is also provided for in point 4.5 of this resolution, which states: "A regulatory framework is being prepared to regulate the special rights and benefits of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship." That's one segment. On this one segment, we, the Social Democrats, have already tabled a proposal for a law on the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship in 1998. I myself have taken up the proposal from my colleague, Iva Hvalica, who is no longer in this House and I hope that the adoption of this resolution will also mean that we will also begin to prepare and adopt these laws. In this regard, I am also encouraged by the performance of Minister Rupl today in the National Assembly, when he took a stand against all divisions or for a non-discriminatory attitude towards all Slovenians, as well as for the last time on the Committee on Foreign Policy, where he stressed that when a resolution is adopted, the government will also start implementing other frameworks that are important in this regard. And in this regard, a repatriation of the Slovenians - those of course who would like it and have conditions for it - from Argentina at the time of the current crisis was proposed. I think it's necessary. That is why I have proposed an amendment that is very general, which does not mention any individual country, but periodically such a situation, when Slovenian relatives, descendants of Slovenes, are in distress in the countries concerned, always occurs and there is no harm in this situation if we also have in the resolution a declaration or in principle a definition that the Slovenian State helps to repatriate Slovenian citizens or their descendants. For, see, in some areas we import personnel, labour; yesterday we had the problem of doctors. I believe that from South America it is also possible, in fact, if this knowledge existed, that there are also trained experts from this area - say, musicians and so on. Let me conclude by stressing that this resolution actually represents progress in this area, that it will not only be a letter on paper that will lie in drawers after acceptance, but that it will actually mean a commitment to us, to Slovenian politics, to the local national assembly, and that it will also mean a signal and a message to the Slovenians, wherever they live and in whatever way they leave Slovenia, that we will tell them: for us Slovenians, you have Slovenian roots as long as you are aware of your Slovenian origin and do more together for your and our status. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Davorin Terchón has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Respectable. So first, it must be established that the resolution is very general and practically there is no paragraph or set that would not somehow begin with the words 'taken in', 'take in', 'focus on', 'allow','seek', 'will endeavour', 'we are interested', 'interested'. The resolution is written in my opinion that it is actually difficult to be against it, but it is also difficult to believe that only on the basis of the resolution will it significantly improve the status of Slovenians: either natives or evicts or Slovenians under consideration by this resolution. It is likely that the resolution as a reference and a parliamentary framework document cannot be different. It is, of course, a compromise, given the population it deals with. I said he's dealing with different populations. We used to share these populations. This is a classic eviction, which is usually best understood when we imagine Slovenians across the oceans, in America or Australia: the population of natives, which is a purely different population, as well as the Slovenians, who remained in one country because of the breakup of the former Yugoslavia, or could also say "predominant" countries, namely the Austro-Hungarian monarchies. There is a compromise in between, their expectations, a desire to do as much as possible and to make some entanglement in the legislation as possible, a positive legislation that they have and that allows us to define more or less concrete measures by means of a resolution, and we can finally find that we cannot define in this resolution relatively much concrete action. I must say that this is a symbolic character, that it is a sign, an incentive, and also a message to our relatives, whether in exile, home or so. It is true, however, that some in this resolution had greater ambitions during the years it came into existence. And in fact, there are different patterns. The case of Hungary, which is not necessarily regulated by a resolution alone, has already been mentioned. We know about the cases of Italy, as well as neighbouring Croatia, if I turn only to the neighbourhood. I believe that in preparing the resolution, it has also been addressed to countries with very large and numerical diaspora, such as Israel, Ireland, Poland and so on. So we could also have greater ambitions and these ambitions have already been demonstrated in the past. After all, we already have one resolution that defines Slovenians in substitution, which is a resolution on the situation of Slovenian indigenous minorities in neighbouring countries. I think that this first resolution - the one I have just mentioned - is about the situation of foreigners, if I may say so - a little more concrete. However, it is necessary to tell the truth lovingly that these particulars in this first resolution are not implemented as they are written in, and that there may have been too many ambitions. Let me only draw attention to a chapter that discusses the promotion of economic cooperation with indigenous Slovenian minorities, where we have not yet achieved concrete results. This resolution essentially builds on some measures that the state authorities and the state of Slovenia have already implemented through various ministries and institutions and are therefore framed in this act of Parliament. More ambitions to do more in this area are certainly covered and manifest themselves through various proposals of the law on the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship. These proposals were quite something. You know that the First World Slovenian Congress has prepared the First Congress, and the Isseljena Matica has worked on this and you know that the law that has already been introduced, which has already been mentioned, on the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship, has very serious concerns about the higher-a-vis legislation that we already have: it introduces partial elections in the field of asylum policy and so on, and raises serious concerns as to whether it is not in conflict with positive legislation, as well as with international treaties signed by Slovenia. Thus, we can see that Slovenia has done a great deal since independence on a symbolic level for its relatives abroad. Unfortunately, this is not how it works in specific matters. If we are going to compare the data, we can see that financial support as a percentage of the budget for fellow citizens abroad from the former country, although we have, of course, adopted or today we will adopt a second resolution, we have set up a commission for Slovenians around the world, which already has a second mandate in this Parliament, but it is true that concrete measures do not follow. I would like to hear a few more questions or concerns that have been raised here. How many Slovenians are abroad? So these estimates are very different, but they are also different because they are very difficult to qualify or very difficult to obtain - by which criteria we will get them. In fact, who the Slovenian is, we have not even considered this, if I may say so, and there are very different views, than that the Slovenian is everyone who feels the consciousness of the Slovenian. However, I must say that in the previous term I also followed many different opinions, and of course, when we ran into Slovenians when we came abroad, when not even the words of Slovenians knew, they said, "Yes, because that is no longer Slovenian, but if Slovenian does not even know." So it is obvious that with us Slovenians the identification mark is a language. If we look at some other nations, we will find that they have some other, more identification marks; it can be faith, but it can only be a sense of belonging to a certain nation. Of course, if we were able to define these criteria, we could also speak more professionally about the number of Slovenians. After all, they find in some schools that more than half the children are already from mixed or laws where parents are not Slovenian at all. And it also raises the question of who really is Slovenian. Finally, the question is, how important is this question, how many Slovenians do we have, whether we have 100,000 abroad, or we have 300,000, or we have 500,000. Nationality. With regard to citizenship, it has been said many times that it would be wise to make it easier for Slovenians to acquire citizenship abroad. I must say that we have legislation that allows the acquisition of citizenship also to Slovenians abroad and also to descendants of Slovenians abroad. Of course, it is important here again what criteria we will define: whether this criterion of Slovenian origin - I will say so - will be increased or reduced; to what kind and so on. But we have this arranged, but the question is whether we are allowing this to a wider circle of descendants of Slovenians or allowing a narrower circle. Here is a very specific case of certainly Slovenians who moved from Primorska before World War II to Argentina. And I think there's something important to be done there. Only two observations, which are not specifically related to this resolution, have been mentioned today, relate more to substitution, although it has been said that we will not touch this issue, but I will say in two sentences. So, bilingual documents and I.D.s in Italy. This is now in Slovenian areas, i.e. Italy; of course, it is now a very hot topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u35	Mr Tarchoon, I ask you very much that we do not really spread our debate beyond the framework of the resolution that is before us today. Please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam Vice President. This is what I expected you to do with previous debaters. So, I'm only going to say one sentence that you're going to go look at the debate that was in this Parliament in the previous term when we had the identity card law and the vote, and look at what they adopted there. Maybe that's the only thing that'll answer. And look, of course, at these documents. As for the sound and visibility of TV programs, look at the warnings given at the time of reception. Where it has been made clear that if conditions are not provided - because the condition is also of course our public institution RTV and of course the conditions for the converters to be placed - that the law will not help us either. That was a warning back then. However, I support the resolution. I must say, as I said at the outset, that it is very general and certainly I also welcome - here I must say something positive - that I welcome that the climate, which has been quite politically discolored immediately after independence - is also in this Parliament and also in place and that this can also be encouraged mutually - has changed significantly and definitively but we are coming to some state relationship with our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor, then Mr Jože Ašič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you, Vice President. Let me immediately say that I will support the resolution, and I will also support the amendments of the Commission and the governments. Let me add that the reasons of the Commission and the government, of course, have convinced me, but little less the justification of individual speakers. I would like to refer to the introduction made by my colleague Bernik when he spoke about the situation of our Slovenians in exchange and about this last measure of the interior ministry, of course, which abolished bilingualism in personal cards.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u39	Mr. Yuri, I'm sorry. At the College of the President of the National Assembly it is - taking into account the fact that we have 40 points on the agenda, and considering how to locate the debate in Parliament on the content, as much as possible on the content that we are considering at that time; taking into account the fact that the resolution before us today is talking about Slovenian expatriates and natives, and that the concern for the Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries is the question of the 1996 resolution - there is an indisputable assessment that the discussion on the issues of these two minorities at this point would naturally be an overrun of the point that we have on the agenda. It would certainly not produce any results in any form: conclusions and recommendations to the Government for the implementation of the policy under the 1996 resolution, which address these issues, which are certainly pressing. I think that Members of the National Assembly have the opportunity under other means, but not within this point, which is certainly what we have discussed today, talks about emigrants and residents. I ask so kindly that this joint conclusion, which we have also adopted at the College, respected colleagues and colleagues, you respect that we do not extend the debate to a part that does not touch on this point which is before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you, Vice President. As a rule, I am extremely disciplined and subject to, of course, and will not spread this debate. However, colleague Bernick spoke about this and would only explain a request that would not open any controversy - I suppose. When he spoke about reciprocity, of course, I suppose he was thinking about positive reciprocity, even in showing our experience in protecting minority rights, not vice versa. And if he calms me down in that sense, I will not even continue this debate. However, I wanted to take this opportunity to commend the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, in particular, Mrs Tovornikova for the protest note she gave in relation to these measures in Italy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Of course I'll be brief enough. This debate could also be a replica, but I think it is better that this is in the form of a debate - it also explained one of those who actively participated in the drafting of this resolution. It is obvious that the resolution is general and, at the same time, the conclusion that it is written that it is difficult to reject it is precisely what we have been aware of throughout the preparation of this resolution. We were aware that if we went with a resolution to specify those solutions that were unquestionably needed to be defined in the relevant laws or that we would go into political waters, even if only in the preamble we qualified why we had Slovenians in such a number outside the country of origin in order to miss the purpose. This is to prepare a document that will be most acceptable to Members and Members of the National Assembly, so that it can be adopted practically by all votes, by consensus, and that will provide an appropriate basis for the preparation of concrete legislative or other acts, including the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which has in fact been lagging behind in the definition of means to address the purely specific needs of Slovenians outside the country of origin. And as I have been following the debate, I am convinced that we have made a very suitable basis for the adoption of the National Assembly in cooperation with all of the above mentioned, which we have already repeated several times. After all, we all probably know what the resolution is, what the document is, and what the difference between resolution and law is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you. Since there are no more notations to the debate, I am concluding the general debate. The motion for a resolution was accompanied by amendments in the review of accompanying and complementary proposals to the motion for a resolution on the situation of Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia, with the exception of Slovenians in substitution, and related tasks of the State and other factors of the Republic of Slovenia of 23.1.2002. Within a possible deadline, the amendment was also announced by Mr Partljič, who is now not among us. He's not on the bench yet, so I'm asking Mr Partič if an amendment or a job is already being tabled, if the amendment is being tabled, or if we're going to move on without an amendment. The amendment has been tabled, so we'll wait just a moment until we get it on the bench. Since I received a message that until the conclusion of the general hearing, which allowed for the possibility of the amendment being tabled, it was not tabled and we will therefore come out of the amendments tabled in the framework - and are in the review of the amendments. The motion for a resolution is addressed to III. the chapter was tabled by the amendment or supplementary proposal of the Commission for Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to III. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2019 to We're voting. There are 41 present. I think there's more of us in the hall. Please, colleagues and colleagues, because we are in the voting phase and I think that a resolution before the afternoon break would also be acceptable to join us in order to vote on a few amendments. Secondly, we will vote on the amendment to Chapter III. We're voting. Since the second time the vote has not been successful, I am adjourning the meeting for ten minutes. We continue at 12:45 a.m. when we vote on the amendment for the third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u44	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Before we vote for the third time on the amendment of the Commission to the III. Chapter, allow me another explanation. You also receive amendments on the bench, which are proposed by Mr Tone Partljič. As the amendments were located in the main office and were announced in the general debate, my notice in the previous part was that the amendments were not, irregularly, so we will consider both of Mr Partljič's amendments, together with the amendments we have in the review. This is the third time we will vote on the Commission's amendment to III. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of the general budget of the Union for We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I'm guessing the amendment is to III. the chapter adopted. Now we're moving on to the amendment to the II. the chapter proposed by Mr Tone Partljič; the amendment is editorial in nature. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to II. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of the We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on amendments to IV. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of the general budget of the Union Under number 1, the government's amendment, under order number 2, we will decide on the amendment, which is proposed by Mr Partljič, then we will go back to the amendment review, where there is a number 2 of the amendment of the commission and under the number 3 of the amendment of Mr Jerovska. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. It's just editorial. It says "university" - and "university", because we know that in Slovenia there can be more than two universities, "and universities and research organisations in Slovenia". So far, there's two of them, but there could be three. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much. This is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, we have no right here. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u47	It's not an eighth, it's a ninth indent.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u48	I'm sorry, Mr. Pukšič, I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u49	It says, "A new eighth indent is added in the second paragraph" - it is the ninth indent.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u50	Dear colleagues, here are, of course, comments on the amendment, of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the proponent. Does the representative want to explain? Mrs. Truck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has accepted the amendment in the form you have mentioned. She probably had two existing universities in mind. That way, I do not object to the Member's proposal. However, the government has adopted an amendment in this form, as written here. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u52	A further explanation, Mrs Tovornikova, as regards Mr Puksic's comment; 8th indent.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u53	There's already eight of them, so it could be the new eight. There's an amendment to the eighth indent, isn't there?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thanks for the explanation. So we are moving on to a decision on the amendments. First, on the amendment under one of which the proposer is the government. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We are now voting on the amendment, which was tabled by Mr Partljič in section IV, point 4.1. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment of which Mr Partljič has proposed has been adopted. We now return to the amendment review and vote on the amendment under order number two on the other side of the review. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number three. The explanation of the voice, I'm sorry to interrupt. First of all, Mr. Azhish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Well, I won't support this amendment. But I think he's a bit of a troublemaker. It speaks of the need to create conditions for the return of Slovenians anywhere in the world where there is a severe economic or political crisis. This is, of course, in the context of current events in Argentina, and probably the applicant indicated that he wrote this. However, it goes beyond what we thought we would write in the resolution and what we have already talked about on several occasions must also be worked out in the relevant legislation. The principle of return is the principle. In fact, we are already setting out something that we thought might be right now, because of Argentina, but the Slovenians are also in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. And I think there are conditions and a serious economic and economic crisis in this country. And maybe there's somewhere else we can put it. And if we accept this as it is written, then of course we agree that wherever it is found, and not even defined, what is the crisis and what is the severe economic crisis, we will have to create conditions. We must - because according to this principle, it does not mean that those who want to come to Slovenia will be welcomed. We must ensure the conditions for them to return. This is quite binding and I think it is wrong to write this in the resolution as it is written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. My aim, though, was to point out this problem, but I have already overlooked that we are in the decision-making phase and that I can only explain my voice because, with my contribution, I wanted to propose a certain amendment to make this amendment a little less binding. These words "enable conditions" are said to - I don't know exactly - provide materially for accommodation, services, housing and so on. Therefore, I would have expected, of course, earlier, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would have at least defined itself at today's meeting before this amendment - unfortunately not. We also did not discuss this amendment on the Commission, because of course it was tabled just before the resolution was considered. So, unfortunately, of course, I won't be able to support this amendment. But it would be good if -- unfortunately I was late, I say again -- we wrote here instead of "enable," "encourages" or something like that: "creates conditions for their return" and so on. I'm afraid I won't be able to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. So, with the kind of dictatorship he's given, I'd agree with it myself. But, well, now we're at a stage like this. But I'll tell you why I'm going to vote for this text myself. Indeed, we have also been very liberal in this national assembly to deal with certain laws relating to foreigners, migrants and similar categories of foreign citizens, and there has been little protection for them. I don't mind that we understand each other; but when it comes to perfect foreigners, we were very liberal, but when it comes to our citizens - I mean citizens who have our origins, our blood - but here we are very restrictive. And all of a sudden, there are a lot of concerns, a lot of restrictions, which - I don't say they're not even justified, but I'm kind of not getting along. If we can - or we can find so much tolerance for perfect strangers, then I don't understand why we wouldn't have anything more eventual - but it won't be any more - given to the people who are our blood. And that is why I will confirm this, even if this text, as Mr Bevk said, is possible, perhaps a little bit or a little more binding, it does not bother me if we have been so liberal in the case of complete strangers. That's why I'm going to support this, and not just to support it, it's my conscience that I have to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. I'd like to explain my voice myself. I do not see that this or the adoption of this dictatorship would make it a commitment to enable returnees to live, work and so on, not at all. For the return is one thing, to make it possible and to ensure living conditions in a certain standard is another thing. And, finally, it is also likely that some law will lay down these matters in more detail. But I imagine the following: in Rwanda, for example, there are 12 Slovenians living, there is a severe civil war, slaughter and long-term crisis - which country would somehow allow its citizens to return home? Which country wouldn't do that? Tell me, which democratic country wouldn't do that?Oh, my God! And it seems to me that we Slovenians are also indebted in the event that this happens in Rwanda, to those twelve who may not be able, because in that civil war you do not get to the plane, you do not get to the map, it is all a mess, and maybe just some American diplomatic plane flies away, so that we don't allow our citizens to leave this critical country and come home; but maybe they have a well-groomed property situation at home. It is only that we owe or commit ourselves here in principle in such crisis situations to our citizens or Slovenians - what this means - that the law will probably determine - to enable us to return to Slovenia. That's all this is about. I don't think it's too much of a burden, it's that minimum democratic requirement of someone, I'd say, an ethical relationship of the home country with their inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Since it's 1:00, only with your permission would I complete this point. There are three others who want to explain their voice. Hands are getting up, too. So, I interrupt the morning part and proceed at 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u63	We will continue with the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, with the adjournment of the agenda. Please, fellow Members and fellow Members, if they come to the Chamber. We will first determine the presence, then I would like to inform you of some proposals for the continuation of the meeting related to certain items of the agenda. Please come to the hall. Colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we proceed with the suspension of the agenda at the 12th meeting by identifying the presence. Additional justifications for continuation are: Dr. Bajuk, mag. Vizjak, colleague Gračner, colleague Jakič, Kacin, colleague Zalokar Orazem and colleague Beumann for the afternoon part of the meeting. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There's not enough attendance. I think there's enough of us in the hall, please everyone in the lobby if they come to the hall. I ask all those who are in the lobby of the great hall to join us. We'll re-examine the presence. 49 colleagues and colleagues are present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded, may decide. Can I have your attention, please? Before continuing with the interrupted point - some notices. If the proposals which were part of this notice were to be accepted, then I would not put them to the vote. If there are different views between us, I would suggest that the colleges meet quickly to decide on matters. At the last meeting of the College before the beginning of this meeting, we agreed on when we will consider some of the agenda items around. Among other things, when will we elect a new minister, after we are familiar with the resignation of the old Minister or former Minister for European Affairs, the judge and when will we deal with the interpretation? In this regard, I am obliged to inform you of some of the things that I have been informed myself during the rest period. The Prime Minister asks for two or a government: that the appointment of Dr. Potočnik as Minister for European Affairs be decided, if possible, tomorrow. Dr. Potočnik was invited to a meeting of the so-called Luxembourg Group on Friday, in the Czech Republic. It is, in his view and in the opinion of the Government, a very important meeting at which it would be good for Slovenia to participate. Therefore, they ask the National Assembly if they can decide on his appointment tomorrow. That's one suggestion. The second proposal concerns the question of interpretation. The College decided to propose to the National Assembly the treatment of interpretation next Thursday. However, several colleagues, mainly by the opposition, pointed out that the Prime Minister, Drnovska, is not in the country next week because he is absent due to his official obligations, which is why we agreed to ask the Prime Minister whether he would like to be present at the meeting when the intervention against Minister Kopač will be discussed in the National Assembly. I had this conversation with him during this break. The Prime Minister would like to be present at the meeting and ask if the National Assembly could hold this meeting this week. I therefore propose to include it at the beginning of the resumed meeting on Friday, if we agree to do so. These are two suggestions that I would like to consult with you. If there is no objection, we would agree with them if there were objections, but I suggest that we meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups to see what alternatives they are; but I think they are proposals that also meet the demands of the opposition and, on the other hand, respect the Government's proposal. Is that okay? Thank you very much. So Dr. Potočnik as a candidate will be decided on Thursday, as well as on the proposal for a judge, and on Friday, starting at 10 a.m. Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. I give my word to my colleague Brenčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much. This is an explanation of the vote for the third amendment to the fourth area. Either way, one of us may be burdened in one way or another, either with Argentinian syndrome or in any way. They're Slovenian in the world, wherever they are, of this nation's body. And if we think about how cruel things are happening, how cruel things are in individual parts of the world, and how powerless an individual is, and even if we just follow this cordon of refugees across our territory, then we cannot somehow unharmedly monitor, perhaps the desired inclusion of content as proposed by this amendment. In any case, this is a resolution, not a law. This amendment is, of course, quite specific. If this were the law, the obligation of the State could be very great. At some point, I couldn't have done it. However, it is a resolution, so that the status of this act is only slightly different. Therefore, with full responsibility, I would like to say that I will support and think, even if it remains exactly as it is proposed, it should be supported and supported by all the Slovenians living anywhere in the world, and given this opportunity for the state to build on it or to prepare some reserves, one or other, or such or other measures - at least for those environments where it is evident that some general social situation and climate is rapidly deteriorating and survival is impossible for an individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u65	Please, procedurally, Comrade Jerovšek. Can you fit in?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u66	Because at the very end of the discussion of this amendment, I was not present in the Chamber and, above all, it is controversial - too much of the obligations that would arise from this for the country, I do not know if I have the procedural option to propose a slight edition of this amendment by saying: "The Slovenes of the world who live in countries where there is a severe political or economic crisis, the Republic of Slovenia allows the return to their homeland without conditions." It allows - this is only in principle, I think quite neutral. After some consultations, such a dictatorship - I think it should not be disputed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u67	Okay. The content of the amendment is the power to amend until the beginning of the vote. Now we're talking about an explanation of vote. You say it's an editorial intervention in the text. The government's position on this? Then I will ask the National Assembly whether we can continue to explain the vote and vote only on the basis of oral correction. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u68	Mr President, I have already said that the government has not defined itself before this amendment because this amendment was only tabled 23.1. So the government doesn't have an attitude to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u69	I mean, the correction that my colleague Jerovšek just made.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u70	We will respect the decisions of the Members. I agree with his explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u71	I understand. Thank you very much. I propose that we proceed with the explanation of vote and find out at this time what can be done with regard to the proposal made by my colleague Jerovska. Comrade Pukšič, behind him colleague Bernik and colleague Tarčon. You have the floor, Comrade Pukšič. You don't want to? Comrade Bernik - explanation for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u72	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! There's been a lot of talk about this amendment. I agree that it would be possible to make a slightly different dictatorship, but this does not bother me, because this is a proposal, this is a resolution, but it is not a law. I'd say one more thing. If each of us tries to put himself in a situation where he is, something happens to him how he would like it if he saw that the state has no intention of doing anything and has no obligation to do anything. We can't think about that. The other thing is that. This proposal is now addressing the situation in Argentina. Okay, this is happening down there right now, but I'm telling you, the Slovenians down there are very tough and they've been through a lot more than one economic crisis. However, no one thinks that we have more of these situations nearby; this is said, in some countries of the former Yugoslavia. It seems to me that it is necessary to think of all the Slovenians in the world wherever they are - whatever they are - the reasons they led them to go out or to stay where they were and so on. That is why this lesson is satisfying because it concerns all people, Slovenians around the world, but not just the current situation wherever it is. I had a relatively good deal of business last week in civil society, including with Slovenians from the former republics of Yugoslavia, and I saw that their needs were primarily financial, economic and similar, and I do not know how much has occurred at this time, how berekel, self-awareness that also for Slovenian language, identity and so on should be done. I hope it's here and our goal should be to come. That is why I support this on my behalf and I am sure that our New Slovenia Party will also support this proposal and I also ask you to support it in the context of these comments that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you, Comrade Dr. Bernick. The next one has the word of his colleague Terchón and his colleague Juban. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that, given that the resolution is a general framework act of the National Assembly, that paragraph 4.5 is fully sufficient for this resolution, which states that Slovenia is interested in returning the Slovenians. I understand that, of course, the state of Slovenia will already pay particular attention to countries where the government is severe either economically or politically. You haven't convinced us with a modified dictatorship either. "Enables return," what does that mean? Will she pay for the plane tickets? "Enabled conditions" means something more to regulate certain conditions that are not defined. It seems to me that this amendment is a powerful outpouring of good will to return the Slovenians, but that it is unnecessary and that we will not achieve the goal of not doing anything to help it. Equine solves the problem mentioned earlier that if a crisis arises in Rwanda, there are 12 Slovenes there to rescue them. See how other European or North American countries act when such a crisis occurs. I do not think they have anything written in any resolution, but they are very effective in saving their citizens. I think that if such cases occur, Slovenia will do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. A colleague of Juban, a colleague of Kebrich, has the floor. You're withdrawing your application. Comrade Kebrich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. From my youth, I remember what it was like when our Slovenians were politically oppressed in place, specifically in Italy. At that time in Slovenia - I speak from Maribor's point of view, because I am a Mariborian and I know things well - gladly and gladly accepted them and allowed them everything that was best in our options at the time. They got jobs, they got apartments, etc. Therefore, I believe that Slovenia will never abandon its people, the Slovenians, or in any way prevent them from returning. I believe that this revised proposal, which was tabled by fellow Member Jerovšek, is allowed in our national consciousness to have no problems with us, but will be happy and with a certain honour if they return, not only as Slovenians, especially as our citizens, without regard to having dual citizenship. I therefore propose that if there is a procedural possibility to support and adopt the amendment of my colleague Jerovska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u77	Okay. Anyone else want a word? Otherwise, I'll close the debate. [[He does.]] Please, mate Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I will first say that I will support this amendment by explaining that if something additional is written in favour of these people who do not live in Slovenia and want to come to Slovenia is desired, then there is nothing wrong with our support. If we change the constitution to stimulate women to become involved in political life more than ever, there is nothing wrong with writing. Even if it wasn't written, we'd have the same rights. As far as the Slovenians are concerned. When the Slovenians were around the world last year, I talked to people living in Croatia, and I'm sorry, but they told me literally that the state of Slovenia has a machete relationship with them. Literally. And now, if we're going to do things like this again, then of course it's going to have a disstimulating effect on these people. They should also be told that in Slovenia there is also a decline in nativity and if there are always fewer young women or marriages, that every year there are fewer young people, new people, so on. And if, let's say, 10, 15, 20 years from now, comes into a critical situation that we need to get a population, I don't know where from, then I don't think it's going to be good for the identity itself. I know what it's like to be a stranger and I know what it means to be a country. I'm not Slovenian myself, and I'm very well received. Let us support this proposal so that those too will feel welcome in their fathers ’ homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much, buddy Mamich. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you. The proposed resolution certainly contains a sub-chapter referring to repatriation, citizenship and status. Without citizenship, all the conditions are ensured, including for such cases as the amendment submitted and even its correction. There is certainly no need to add and open other routes in this respect. Finally, in the second paragraph, it is clear that the State authorities of the Republic of Slovenia will advocate the implementation of all statutory reliefs. And I believe that it is certainly clear enough that it is in the complex for all Slovenians. I also warn that some exceptions have even been made in the first paragraph. The resolution calls specifically for the return of those Slovenians who live outside the Republic of Slovenia with a dictatorship, so that we will pay special attention in this regard to those who can contribute to the development of Slovenia. I also point to this dictatorship, which in fact separates Slovenians from the State of the Republic of Slovenia from those who can bring something to the development of Slovenia and those who have nothing to bring to the development of Slovenia, but we do not need to pay so much attention. This is one of the slight discriminatory treatments of this resolution, which may be taking place elsewhere, and we have overlooked it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Comrade Shirtz. Anyone else want to explain their vote before the vote on the amendment? I guess not. With the meaningful application of Article 193 I accept this editorial correction from my colleague Jerovska, who, in other words, is the applicant of this text. The new third paragraph would therefore read: "The Slovenians of the world who live in countries where the severe political or economic crisis of the Republic of Slovenia makes it possible to return to their homeland". We will vote on that. Let's vote please! We are voting on a proposal from our fellow Jerovska! There are 56 colleagues and colleagues present. 28 for, 24 for. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have an amendment to the title. The title is amended to read: The resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world. The proposer is the commission. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I will put such a proposal to the vote. Please let us vote. Please vote on the proposal! There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present. Everyone voted in favour of this proposal. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Before we vote on an additional decision, we must, of course, vote on the resolution in full. Anybody want a word on that? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we will vote on the resolution in full. Let's vote! There are 60 Members and Members present. 57 supported by the resolution, 1 opposed. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. At this point in the agenda, we still have a proposal for an additional decision. In accordance with Rule 270 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall report on the implementation of the resolution on relations with Slovenians worldwide. Anybody want a word? The proposer is the commission. [[He doesn't want to.]] We will then vote on the proposal for an additional decision. Please, let us vote on the proposal for an additional decision. There are 55 colleagues and colleagues present. 52 were in favor and no one was in favour. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have done all the necessary voting in this item on the agenda, and I conclude with this. We're moving to 3. POINT OF THE DAY - DESCRIPTION OF INFORMATION FROM THE COURT OF JUSTICE IN LOVELLANCE, PRINCIPAL SECTION, IN RELATING TO THE PREPARED PRACTICE OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF STATE CONGREGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. A notice concerning a private action brought against the Member of the National Assembly, Franz Puksič, was submitted to the assembly by the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Division. The notification was addressed by the Commission’s mandate-immunity committee, which informed the assembly in writing. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] On the basis of Article 38(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on the establishment or withdrawal of parliamentary immunity without discussion and without explanation of the votes cast. We are moving on to a decision on the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 22 of the Law on Members relating to the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Section, No. 2K-607/2001 of 8.1.2002, in relation to the action brought by private prosecutor Uroš Aljančič for two criminal offences under Article 171(3) of the Criminal Code, in relation to the second and first paragraphs of the same Article, recognises the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to Mr. Franz Pukšić and does not allow the continuation of the criminal procedure." We are voting on the proposal put forward by the mandate-immunity commission. 52 colleagues and colleagues attended, 25 in favour, 25 against. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence Proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the withdrawal of the proposal for a law on the safety of inland navigation, rapid procedure, from the legal procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia informed the assembly, by letter of 14.12.2001, that it had withdrawn from the legislative procedure the proposal for a law on inland waterway safety following a rapid procedure. Does the government want a word? He doesn't? I'll wait a minute if the government representative joins us. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I would like to invite representatives of the Group to present their views on this matter. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw the proposal for a law on the safety of inland navigation from the legislative process. We're voting. There were 47 colleagues and colleagues present, 39 against, 6 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted and thus that the bill has been withdrawn from the legislative procedure. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, another advocates a bill on public gatherings. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] Please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have before you a law on public gatherings, ready for second reading. Very briefly on the changes we have taken into account the views adopted by the National Assembly on the draft law at first reading. In Article 4, we have adequately complemented the definition of psychophysical abilities by replacing the previous term "presence", which is more appropriate, even in your opinion. In Article 7, we also extended the competent authority to the police department, increasing the number of places possible to meet the legal obligations of the organisers. In Article 13, we have defined more specifically sports events requiring the authorisation of the competent authority. Here, as you know, a proposal is necessary for international sports events and for collective sports in the First National League. With regard to the Secretariat's comment on legislation and legal matters in order to examine the need to establish records under this Act, we have also supplemented Article 14 of this Act, which specifically states that records and all data on public meetings and assemblies are publicly available and as such accessible to everyone. In Article 21, we have substantially reduced the deadlines for the issuance of the written removal of the oral order, thus giving the parties or organisers in essence a greater opportunity for a faster organisation. In short, it is one provision that strengthens the position of the party, the organiser in the process, and thus essentially makes a departure from the ZUP, from the administrative procedure law, from the normal deadlines. In Article 30, we have defined a more specific case where police cooperation is needed at the meeting, which is where we have introduced a provision that says that only in agreement with the organiser can this happen. In this way, the organiser would not have to cover needlessly and bear the costs incurred by the cooperation of the police. In view of the eighth point of the decision, a two-sex form of individual terms is also used in the marriage text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Internal Policy. He wants to speak to the chairman of the committee? Vice-President of the Internal Policy Committee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u84	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 16th regular meeting in January, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy considered a proposal for a law on public meetings submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the second reading. The Committee was informed of the amendment, the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and also of the amendment for a new 40.b Article transmitted by the Ministry of the Interior. At this meeting, the Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 7, 13, 14, 18, 20, 22, 30 and 38 and adopted a new 40.b. Finally, he supported the decision, which reads: "In view of the above decisions of the Committee, he proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposal for a law on public meetings - a second reading - together with amendments to the Committee and amendments supported by the Committee." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First of all, he has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, colleague Vukko. You have the floor, please. On behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. The right to peaceful assembly and public assemblies is one of fundamental human rights and freedoms and is one of the political rights guaranteed by all democratic societies. Its importance is also that it enables the exercise of certain other fundamental rights and freedoms, such as freedom of expression, speech, public speaking, confession of faith and other definitions of individuals. The restriction of this right is permitted only by law, only if the security of the State, public safety and protection against the spread of communicable diseases so requires. International legal acts also guarantee the exercise of the right to peaceful assembly. So far, it proves that we are dealing with an important law, and we have also dealt with it appropriately in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In the LDS Group, we support the solutions contained in the proposal for a law, namely that the proposal for a law on public exits and public events mainly binds to a prior notification to the competent authority for internal affairs or to a permit only when a public meeting on the road is organised, where a public meeting or a public event is organised by a foreigner or when an open fire or objects or devices are used at a public event that may endanger life, health, human property. We support that the proposal for a law lays down the conditions for prohibiting a public meeting or a public event or for revoking an already issued permit for a public event where the security values protected by the law are protected where the health authority concerned so requests, or where the competent authority finds that the organiser of the event has not carried out the measures provided for in the authorisation. We also support in the LDS Group that the draft law defines the responsibilities of the citing party and determines the powers of the police. In particular, we support the proposal that the law lays down the duty of the police to allow for the smooth exercise of this right, while at certain mass meetings and events it is incumbent on them to take care of the security of persons and property and to maintain public order and peace under official responsibility. We also support the proposal that, in defining the conditions, the law takes into account the principle that the intensity of State interference in the exercise of this constitutional right must be proportionate to the degree of threat to other security values, and that, for the bulk of public gatherings, the law provides only that the organiser of the competent national authority should be aware of the intended collection, only for those forms of assembly that may pose an increased risk to participants or the community, but requires prior authorisation. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the bill does not take into account the role of local communities. Especially if we take into account the provision of the Law on Local Self - Administration, which stipulates that the congregation exercises control over local events. The prerequisite for carrying out this surveillance is that the local community is in some way informed of the planned public event. For this reason, we will support the proposal by the amendment of the parent working body, which redefines the responsibility of the organiser of the public event to inform the competent authority of the local community of the planned public event. Other regulations also govern public gatherings: the Road Traffic Safety Act, the Law on the Legal Status of Religious Communities in the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Election Campaigns, the Education Act, the Law on Protection against Utopia and the Veterinary Act, and other laws such as the Environmental Protection Act. Taking this into account, we believe that the drafter of the law should make further efforts to simplify the procedure for obtaining authorisation for the implementation of the public event until the third reading, which we will also be working on in the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. The LDS Group will support the law and will also support the proposals of those amendments that have received majority support from the Internal Policy Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is the word of colleague Petan, followed by colleague Zupan. Mr Petan will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. Proposal for a law governing the organisation of public meetings as forms of expression of views and opinions on issues of a social political nature and, of course, the organisation of other forms of public assembly, which constitute public events which are in accordance with Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the law is at second reading, of course general opinions have already been expressed and, of course, you would not lose words about it. I would like to draw attention to some specific issues which, of course, we can resolve right now. The basic feature that we have been given birth to and seen in the Social Democratic Party is the one that stabs in the eyes that this law is very restrictive. He has a very restrictive approach. In the SDS Group, we believe that such a text of the law could also undermine citizens' rights to assembly and association as referred to in Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. So he wouldn't talk in general. If I'm just going for it. Article 6 speaks of restrictions. We understand that certain frameworks must be put in place, that definitions of what is allowed and what is not allowed and what the organisers of such events must look after and pay particular attention to. However, we believe that the content of this Article is too loose. It can come to this because it is so loose that any event, if any person who decides whether or not a given event is able to perform, can find arguments against it. After all, the content suggests that it is prohibited to organize meetings and events in which public order or public traffic may have been disrupted. While this is at first sight a very appropriate diction, if we go into the content, what I mentioned at the outset can happen, in fact, that we can push each event into the text, and this is especially true for the organisation of meetings of carriers and motorists. After all, we agree that everyone cannot hinder public transport, that he cannot do what he likes, but other countries have similar requirements, are faced with similar problems, but have resolved this differently, as is the case in general with us, where we have turned this into a general framework where we can in fact always ban such public meetings. We also believe in the SDS that the third paragraph is completely superfluous because the prohibitions of a general character are already in the first paragraph and in this context we also propose two amendments to this content. The fact is that the restrictions are being stepped up in this Article 6 from the first to the third paragraph and we believe that this would not be good and that it would probably also be possible to find things that violate citizens' rights under Article 42 of the Constitution. The next area that we are concerned about, and which my predecessor has also pointed out, is that the local community is completely excluded. The fact is that the local community is completely inappropriate. Other events or meetings are organized by others, consent is given by others, and in fact only those local residents receive inconveniences. In fact, the local community has no jurisdiction other than that of a purely final one - that is, to establish the original state of affairs, that is, to clean up. We have experience especially in these major events when the organiser has failed to do what the law essentially imposes on him. And this cleaning, which was not even so insignificant, had to be done in the local community. But I don't even lose words about all the noise that comes out of it. Such an approach to total ignoring the local community is unacceptable to us and we have therefore proposed amendments to improve the text of this law, in particular in terms of the rights set out in Article 42 of the Constitution, as I have already mentioned. In the SDS, I feel that the government is somehow afraid of its people, restricting citizens to gather and, on the other hand, completely centralising decision-making on these events. In principle, we support the content of this law in the SDS, but also the amendments we have tabled ourselves and, of course, some of the other amendments tabled by others, particularly in the interests of this Article 42, for the rights set out in Article 42 of the Constitution, as I have already mentioned. On this basis too, we will also decide to support the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Comrade Petan. I invite my colleague Zupanovo to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. She will be given the floor by her colleague Barovic for the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. And then, in order of course, my friend Levich. Please, my colleague Zupanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respectable. The proposed system law deals with the realization by the Constitution of guaranteed fundamental human rights and freedoms, other than the political rights guaranteed by all democratic societies, that is the right to peaceful assembly and public assemblies. The exercise of the right to peaceful assembly and public assembly is also ensured by international acts, both the general declaration on human rights, the international pact on civil and political rights and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The main objective of the proposed regime is to prevent the exercise of this right which threatens the security of the State or public security or the protection against the spread of communicable diseases. In determining the conditions for the implementation of public meetings and public events, the applicant seeks to take into account the principle that the intensity of State interference must be proportionate to the degree of threat to other protected values. Allow me to mention some of the cases that we consider that the applicant has failed to comply with this principle most. Although the right to public gathering is a fundamental human right and freedom, the proposal for a law offers more stringent restrictions on meetings or events. Here I refer to Article 6 of the proposal, which states that it is forbidden to organise meetings or events with a view to obstructing public transport. We thought, for example, of motorists here. However, additional restrictions of a general nature and restrictions on meetings by the competent authority are also laid down. It also prohibits meetings or events where the organiser has failed to demonstrate sufficient measures to ensure order, for the safety and health of participants and others, for the safety of property, for the protection of the environment, for the safety of public transport and so on. In fact, it is the discretion of the administrative authority which limits itself to arbitration. The problem is that these conditions are extremely extensive and can be extended by the administrative authority so that it can also restrict the constitutional right to collect. We also point to the excluded local community, as has already been mentioned, but I think that the amendments will somehow regulate this. With regard to noise, the applicant notes that the current regulation on noise in the natural and living environment is not effective and does not provide effective control, which is most often expressed as ineffective protection against noise that may be caused by public meetings and events. On the basis of that proposal, the law provides that this area is governed by a specific regulation by the Government by determining the method of use of sound and other devices in such a way that, subject to the provisions of the Regulation at meetings and events, excessive noise would not occur, in order to establish offences to issue individual licences, where the use of devices cannot be generally prescribed and defined as permanent authorisations. In doing so, we are asked whether the Ministry's regulation can fully address this issue, whether it would not be better if the law were prepared to reflect or reflect practice, because we believe that this would lead to fewer problems. This would give two interesting examples, such as the ringing of church bells, around which a lot of dust was raised in some environments. Ringing, we know that in our churches has been centuries old and is a part of our lives, we could also say a custom that is for a lot of beautiful music and for others causes unbearable noise. On the other hand, it would expose noise events on various occasions, such as in the city’s cores or the noise from discotheques, where speakers operate to the end, causing great discontents and protests by residents living nearby. Will the regulation be able to fully determine the limits between rights and obligations objectively? Note is also given to the novelty brought by law regarding the conduct of religious rituals outside the premises designated for the observance of religious rituals. The new law will require such rituals, which will have the character of a public event, according to the criteria of this law either to register or to obtain permission from a competent police station. For the speaker found no reason for such gatherings to be arranged differently, although we know that in some countries, such as Germany, where the Law on Meetings and Meetings applies, that this law does not apply to outdoor worship, to church processes, to God’s ways, to funerals, to weddings and to traditional folk events. Our client, Nova Slovenija, has already made a supplementary decision in the first reading, whereby we would like the applicant to exclude a provision to exclude the application of the law for religious rituals carried out outside the church premises. The majority of Members did not support the decision. That's why we tabled a second reading of the amendment with the same content. We are convinced that you agree that organizing traditional religious celebrations - I mean processions and other religious rituals - has been part of our culture for centuries and part of local customs, and therefore we find it unacceptable that such events should be reported at the police station. We believe that local customs can be an appropriate legal term suitable for use in these cases, but in some ways they can also prevent arbitrary behaviour on the one hand from the representatives of the State and on the other hand the organizers of the celebrations. At its first hearing in June 2001, the National Assembly adopted a number of views and instructed the applicant to take them into account. Some views for the second reading were taken into account or further explained by the applicant and also reviewed all the obligations to be fulfilled by the organiser of the public event under other rules and a review of those rules, to which we can express our full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you. A representative of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, Mr Barovic, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I myself participated in a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, where before today's second reading we have carefully reviewed the text of the articles of this Act once again. Allow me to say, as a member of the committee, that the committee has been working properly, qualitatively, and I could say that one such meeting or dealing precisely with this law is a fine example of quality work, regardless of political or other colours. We basically support the law on public gatherings in the second reading of the Slovenian National Party. The law is fresher, newer, there is also a supplement, I think that the 41st article, which takes account of the future treatment of our country, when and when Slovenia enters the European Union. To be a little more specific and precise, I begin with Article 6, where I support, absolutely support colleagues from, I think from the Social Democratic Party, also from New Slovenia. In fact, the third paragraph of Article 6 which speaks of the prohibition of the organisation of meetings is so loose that we can include all of them. I am sure that you will also vote in favour of deleting this third paragraph of Article 6 when considering the amendments. As far as Article 13 is concerned, there have been many words on the committee itself. With the efforts of our colleagues, we have found some predictable, elegant solution, which I think is still incomplete, and I am sure we will have to devote a little more time to the 13th article on meetings and events that require permission, especially sports competitions, members of the team and so on. There was also much to be said about Article 14 of this Law. I'm afraid I can't agree with the predecessors here. In fact, if we look closely at the second paragraph, we cannot say that the local community has no role to play. Why? Article 14, second paragraph, states: The application must be accompanied by the consent of the owner or owner or operator or the operator of the land or the venue at which the meeting or event is organised. The local community - the municipality can own a place and must give consent because the local community has a role to play. That is why I do not understand so many questions and so many facts, nor did I agree with the proposal to add to the word "event" the proof that a local community has been informed of the event's meeting, since it seems to me that, in the second paragraph, it is a public expression, at least that part of the premises, that the local community gives its consent. As regards Article 23, we fully agree with the third paragraph, which prohibits the bringing to meetings of explosive substances and pyrotechnics. But as for the question of religious rituals, I can only say that it is also in law - because I note that religion can be more, different religions, and also in the law on religious communities, if I am not mistaken - even at the local level I encounter similar problems - there are precisely defined places for all religions that exist, where and how religious rituals can be carried out. However, if a religious ceremony is a meeting or an event, like any other one, such or other rituals will have to follow the provisions of the law, just as all the other organizers of the events will have to do. I will tell my colleagues once again that in principle the Slovenian national party agrees with the law in the second reading. I think it's a good basis for us to end it at third reading. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you. A representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party, Mr Peter Levič, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the Young Slovenia Party, we strongly support the right of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to peaceful assembly and public assembly, and we want this fundamental human rights and freedom in the Republic of Slovenia to be guaranteed even after the adoption of the law on public assembly. In the context of meetings and public assemblies, citizens must be allowed freedom of expression, speech, public representation, confession of faith and other definitions of individuals and in particular of different social groups. In the Young Slovenia Party, we see in the bill instruments that will be able to serve to limit or prevent the organisation of modern youth dance parties and concerts. The provisions of Article 6 give the competent authorities a lot of loosely defined limits to which they may rely if they wish to prevent the implementation of a particular event. The limitations are being assessed as a specially adapted tool for limiting the very specific types of public assemblies and events, such as the gatherings of opponents of globalisation, which express their disagreement in specific ways or are already generally considered restrictively by the Slovenian repressive authorities in order to generalise and import negative connotations of similar conventions from abroad. In the Party of Young Slovenia we support those substantive provisions of the law, which in a number of parts update the old 1973 law, and this is good. We warn, however, that the implementation of the law will be the one that counts. Therefore, the application of these provisions, which must in no case be produced voluntarily to prevent the rights of the above-mentioned groups, which are usually caused by fear of new trends and by the nature of society, are mostly young. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Does any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting, please. There are 37 Members and Members present. We're voting again. The assembly is not adjourned. I'm assigning 15 minutes, 10 minutes of rest. We'll pick it up at 3:45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u96	Members and Members, please take their seats. Please take your seats. For the third time, we will vote on the proposal I have already announced. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, it discuss and vote on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting, please. There are 56 Members and Members present, for 42, for 12. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 22.1.2002 and on Article 5 on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u97	I would suggest that the non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure should be corrected in relation to the amendments to Article 14, namely that the reference to the first amendment is inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure, which states that, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment is irrelevant under order number two. 192. Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the preceding paragraph clearly states that "if there are several amendments proposed to the article of the legislative proposal, Members shall first vote on the amendment which deviates most from the content of the article in the legislative proposal and then after this criterion on other amendments". It is undeniable that the consensus proposed by amendment number 2 is the most distant amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. Therefore, we expect or demand that the vote take into account the order in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or that the amendment be deleted or deleted prior to the initiation of the examination, find that the footnote to the first amendment is irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u98	A brief interpretation, the amendments are being excluded, so of course now is the question which amendment will be first considered, which one. The government's amendments are usually dealt with first and then - sorry, more distant. Good. I've been asked by the professional services to vote first on the amendment under number two. So your proposal has been taken into account. Thank you. We move on to Article 4, where we have an amendment to the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. There are 53 Members and Members present, 52, against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members present, for 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 5, which is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members present, for 17, for 29. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on Article 5 as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 48 Members and Members present, for 40, for 7. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to two amendments to the 6th Article, both the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Secretary of State, Dr. Bulgarian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. With regard to the first amendment to Article 6, which states that we are deleting that part of the first paragraph, which says "or public traffic interference", I would like to point out that, I think, the misunderstanding of this paragraph. If you read the last two lines of Article 6, they are talking about the purpose of obstructing public transport, it is only a ban on gathering, the purpose of which is to prevent public transport, which is not the same as collecting, which is not intended to do so, but can also result in public transport interference. By the law on public roads, you need to meet at a meeting where you restrict public transport, but it is not the purpose of a meeting to interfere with public transport, to allow or to have it.This is one of the normal arrangements that all countries have. [[...]] I do not think we will be able to allow public meetings to be held to close public roads. In short, here is the emphasis on the purpose of obstructing public transport, not obstructing public transport as such, which means that these provisions do not fall under the "marelo" of those meetings which may have a side effect of obstructing public transport. That is why I find it very dangerous then for public order and security to completely remove the barrier to public transport, because there are the greatest dangers under this "public order and peace" dictatorship. With regard to the third paragraph of Article 6, however, I must say that the majority of the comments made by the representatives of the groups of Members have been made here. I must admit, I accept this comment. I think that the right to political integration is too important a constitutional right so that this provision can be so loose. I see a space here for a more precise definition especially in the part where it speaks, first part, 'the competent authority prohibits when the organiser has failed to demonstrate sufficient measures to ensure order', this can, I think, be more precise, say, the degree of danger, the degree of danger. While the elements listed below are themselves, I do not think they are controversial. In my opinion, the Members also pointed to this. In short, health threats, for example, listed, public transport, environmental protection, etc. The goods as such are not disputed, which are listed, but are a definition of the degree of danger that must be given in order to prevent such an event. I accept this comment and propose that we prepare for the third reading a more precise dictatorship, which will define more clearly, more precisely, what degree, the type of threat to these goods must be present in order for the public meeting to be prohibited. This would, in essence, satisfy the comments made by Members, the majority of the groups that have gone in the same direction that the right to assembly is too important to be prohibited by such a loose provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Rupar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Chairman. The deletion of these last three words or four, or "inhibition of public transport", has a specific purpose. We know that different groups, larger groups of people, can't express their demands in a way that impedes traffic. Let's say I'm thinking of motorists. I know that it is already forbidden to protest in this way through various laws, but, remember the European Union, remember other countries, where this is allowed, of course, by announcement and also by certain procedures. So, in any way, the aim is to delete any person who wishes to express, including his protest, his demands, then obstructing traffic, so that this can happen to him. But there's something else I'd like to say. Well, it can happen spontaneously. I know that we have - I think in Article 32 - an unorganized meeting. However, I would like to say that in this case, where there is a spontaneous diversion of these protests or assemblies on the road, there is also an obstacle to public transport. In this case, if this were to remain or not to be deleted, of course, these people remain in or may be subjected to various criminal proceedings. In the case referred to in Article 6, not one and not the other, i.e. unorganised and spontaneously, traffic cannot be prevented on the roads for the sake of expressing their rights, which, therefore, I think, they also have, in my opinion and stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Excuse me, Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. So, I agree, in part, with the explanation of the representative of the proposer, the representative of the government. However, if you have listened to me correctly, in my explanation on behalf of the Group of Members, I said that this could also lead to those who decide whether a meeting will be allowed or not, whether they will be given consent or not, they can put everything under this dictatorship. That's supposed to cancel in any case. I said I could. This is one of the possible ways to interpret this. That's why I also said that he's too loose and that a more decisive thing should be written down. Let's say, specifically, if I say Italy and Sweden, they have this defined by the time that such interference can take, I don't know, an hour, two or up to 10 p.m. - I'm making it up, but these are concrete solutions - or if there is a situation, then this meeting must end. These are certain solutions that are more concrete. From what I said on behalf of the Group of Members, she was only concerned that some, I will say, officer, might have interpreted the matter differently. Yes, you can. I say that this is not possible directly, but we must always take into account the worst possible option that we can cover with a certain dictatorship. In this context, I ask you to understand this amendment. I also agree, as the government representative said, that we might find a better solution for the third reading, but in this case we must do something about this article, because otherwise we cannot correct it in the third reading. Therefore, it is one option to accept this proposal, by now realizing that we will prepare something different for the third reading, perhaps a better solution than ours, because we do not claim to be the best solution; rather, in terms of what the government representative has said. We would have accepted that, too. However, if you think carefully about whether they will be able to take this concern into account, so that we can also come up with such a thing as this, that, as an official is called, a strict bureaucrat would, in every respect, be able to bring it all into this dictatorship and that any event in this sense could be banned. In this context, please, if you are also taking our amendment. Of course, if you have no other solution, then I ask for your support in this amendment. For third reading, we can also find a better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you. The State Secretary, Dr. Bulgarian, also has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Petan, I understand exactly your comment and I think that this is exactly where my proposal went, so I actually agree with you. I would like to point out that the deletion does not solve this, but rather a more precise definition of this Article. The answer to Mr Rupar is: obstructing public transport: 'yes'. But! Each constitutional right - one constitutional principle that the absolute exercise of a constitutional right is permitted only until it collides, limits other constitutional rights. And now to say that with this - every constitutional right is thus limited. What about those people who can't exercise other rights, say when, I don't know, the whole city is blocked, they shut down access to Ljubljana, up to, I don't know, Kranja, up to what city. That is why I am concerned that this provision would go out - 'an obstacle to public transport'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you. Please, here you go, Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. See, this provision, which goes in the direction of obstructing public transport, is additional. I will do my homework: it limits the possibility of public gatherings in the capital. If we link this to Article 2, paragraph 6, of the second paragraph, which refers to a well-founded ban on the organisation of a meeting or an outdoor event in the immediate vicinity of facilities that are protected under special rules, if a meeting or event could impede the protection of these facilities, this is a very loose definition. In combination with the restriction on barriers to public transport, we can peacefully say that, when properly interpreted, even taking into account the dimension of the space in the capital city itself or in the central city, where objects which are protected or which are of particular importance and public roads are in practice followed, one can afford and prevent, when properly interpreted, virtually all public meetings and events in Ljubljana. This is in a strong anachronism with the attitude of the bill's proposer and, last but not least, the internal policy committee that dealt with this law, with the attitude of the local community on the other hand. And it shows that this law, I will say, is distinctly Slovenian or, better understood, Ljubljana, because it is regulated only what could possibly harm or benefit the capital, everything else - it is said, in all the local communities outside the capital - is forgotten in this way. I hereby substantiate my 'yes' vote or to invite you to support the first amendment to Article 6 and to delete that 'public transport obstacle'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? One moment please, Mr. Ambassador, please. He's riding the Evil One.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u109	I am surprised that, given that social democracy is a century old, it has no historical memory whatsoever. In the early 1970s, the American CIA, under the leadership of Henry Kissinger and then President Nixon of the United States, brought down the elected Salvador Allende regime in elections, killed Salvador Allende, with huge logistical assistance paid by the CIA, by moving trucks that have crippled the entire traffic in Chile. A good 10 years ago, the movement of truckers with a far right, so-called political option, crippled even France, so that after the Algerian crisis in the 1960s this was the most dangerous moment, the greatest threat to the overthrow of the legitimate French government. If these two cases aren't enough, then I really don't know what's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Replica, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. Well, I'm not going to answer that harshly to Mr. Evil. However, as I said in the debate earlier, we do not claim that this is the best solution. We would like to have such a solution that would be acceptable to the State and that article 42 of the Constitution would also be respected. I mentioned two countries where this is a little different, a little bit more detailed, and I said we agree to prepare another dictatorship in the third reading, but we can't do that if we don't have an open article. That was my intention. Now, that's the real replica. Mr. Evil, no offense, but as far as I can remember, Kissinger was never at the head of the CIA, but he was then Hoover and he couldn't be at the head of the CIA to break this case. So it's a typical replica and I'm correcting your misstatement. And I'm asking you to support this amendment, but for the third reading we can find a better one, nothing else. Otherwise, we can't find a better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Given that this debate can indeed go again not only in late hours but also in other waters, I propose that we support the Social Democratic Party's amendment under number two. If we do this, then in the third reading, we have the opportunity to amend, if I understand correctly, Article 6. Thus we can also resolve this first paragraph, which is at issue at this time. That is why I also propose to fellow Members of Parliament from positions that this decision be best so that the debate does not go on again, I do not know where. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please. Mario Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I won't support either one or the other. Because I understand - I mean, the articles are clear. And that's what it says. Do you always skip a word? So, if I go to this other side, I mean this last one: forget to say that if the actions were not taken by the official - if you want to do so - or by the administrative unit, the measures taken by the organiser in organising an event are taken into account. And of course, if this is health care, then the organizer must have - I don't know, the Red Cross, the ambulance there. And if there's no ambulance, he probably won't give him that permission. And don't say that when they make it up. The measures are prescribed: this and this must be the case. So action - forget to say that word to me. And you forget about the first one, Mr. Sušnik, you can do a meeting in Ljubljana whenever you want, and the city transport will suffer nothing for it. But when the purpose of a meeting is to interfere with traffic. So, a meeting that's only being organised to interfere with traffic. It's forbidden. Thank God it's forbidden. That's what I'm for. In Ljubljana, motorists can demonstrate, I don't know what they want to do, here in front of our parliament - and nothing will happen. Why don't we have that? But always skip a word just to interpret it your own way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to the vote. Please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u117	Only a brief explanation since the second paragraph of Article 6 was also mentioned. Mr Sušnik said - I hope to quote the words correctly - that it is "typically Slovenian". I have to admit, it's not "typically Slovenian". On page 33 in the Rapporteur, we have also prepared a comparative review and a precise indication of the provisions governing the protection of these personal facilities. This is a German model that is much more liberal than the Austrian model, which stipulates that these special facilities are protected only if such meetings would prevent access to Parliament. For example, the Austrian regime prohibits meetings during Parliament's meeting. But the German regime says: only those ways of meeting that would prevent, say, Members coming to Parliament and things like that. Thus, we are nothing "typically Slovenian" but comparable to the German regime, and I think that such an arrangement is also liberal, certainly not restrictive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't think you understand me correctly, Mr. Bulgarian. I have made this comparison in connection with this law, in conjunction with Articles 6 and 14. I wanted to show how this 14th article is "expressively Slovenian" in - cartoonized - attitude towards local communities, because it is increasingly reflected in this national assembly and this comes from the Ministry, which should take care of the interests of local communities, to defend the implementation of the law on local self-government. In the last month, however, we have witnessed or witnessed as many as two proposals from the same ministry, which has gravely interfered with the competence of local communities - I will not mention what this is about, you know what the proposals were. I will say that I am surprised by such a relationship, or it will be necessary to ask whether this service for local self-government, which is intended to protect the interests of the congregations, is acting in accordance with its purpose. I hope to say that it works against the interests of the local community and against the development of local self-government in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I must ask him one additional question on what Mr Bulgarian has just said. The fact is that this Article 6 is extremely restrictive, and you yourself have acknowledged this. It would be right for you to act on coalition members to support at least one of these amendments to this Article, to remain an open third-reading article and to be able to correct it a little later. Look. It says in the first paragraph "It is forbidden to organize meetings or events with a purpose" and then you end up saying "public transport obstacles". Yeah, but who's going to say that he's organizing a meeting to interfere with public transport? So someone's going to have to evaluate this and say, "You're organizing a meeting to interfere with public transport. Hop, that's not allowed." I don't know how he understands Gasparini in his own way, but good. Then in the last, third paragraph, you write, "when the organiser failed to demonstrate sufficient measures to ensure order". Yes, for there is no record of what measures he must take, for then some bureaucrat may invent a series of measures that he must take. I don't know why, for God's sake, you have to organize everything in this country by just limiting, prohibiting and somehow getting people to say, centralizing and keeping them under observation. You say, "We took it" - that's what I'd like to ask you right now. You said, "We took the German modeling system." Then why don't you take the German system on all matters? We have proposed an amendment to Article 5 concerning religious rituals and processes - why didn't you take the German system here? And in Germany, they don't interfere with this area, they let these things be organized by people like you've been for a thousand years. And you, when it's okay with you, take the German system when it's okay with you, take what I know, the Balkan system and the other system. So, with such answers, please kindly, at least do not answer the opposition in this way if this coalition agrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. It's a replica of Mr. Sušnik. Although I do not feel the need for a lawyer to be anyone, or any ministry, or service, yet: we must be correct. Look! You said that the local self-government service has twice taken grave action in the jurisdiction of local communities in relation to the cases we have. Of course, I'm doing some work myself in one of these local communities, and that makes it easier for me to say that. It is not a matter of grave interference with jurisdiction, it is a matter of implementing the law adopted by this national assembly, and if it is legislation that is gravely affecting the local community, then it is a problem of this national assembly and of this law, which has been adopted - if this is a problem, not of the service and of the government, in the final phase, which proposes some measures based on respect for the law. It wouldn't be like that - besides this, it's not over, but it's just coming, and God knows how we're going to deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the first amendment. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, 16 for, against 36. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the first amendment was not adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. We're voting, please. A voice explanation, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. So, in the National Assembly it's just that sometimes content arguments don't help much. So now I'm not going to ask you for this argument, I'm going to ask you for just a procedural one. As I said, we do not claim that this solution is the best. We would simply like to find a solution that is more defined, clearer and less likely to allow for different interpretations. And given that this is not possible, as if this article is open for third reading, I ask you only in a procedural sense to support this amendment, so that we can prepare a more acceptable solution together in the third reading and, I would say, a more defined solution. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you. We're voting on the second amendment. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, 22 to 29. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still vote on Article 6 as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 52 Members and Members present, 35 for, against 17. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it that Article 6 has been adopted. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 7. I warn you, this is a revised amendment, a new, revised amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 43, for one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 7 as a whole. We're voting, please. We are voting again, please, because there is no consensus. We're voting, please. Article 7 as a whole. One moment, please. Let's vote, please! 41 Members and Members are present. I'm taking ten minutes off. 16.31.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u127	Dear colleagues and fellow Members. [[...]] This is the third time we have voted on Article 7 as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 59 Members and Members present for 46, against 7. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the seven.]] Article 7 was adopted. I am making an amendment to Article 10. The amendment is editorial in nature. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting, please. There are 58 Members and Members present, for 46, for 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 10 as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] The article was adopted. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 13. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting, please. There are 55 Members and Members present, for 46, for 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was adopted. We still vote on Article 13 as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 48 Members and Members present, for 43, for 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The article was adopted. We are moving on to Article 14, where there are two amendments. First, we will vote on the amendment under number two. If this is accepted, the first one will be irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Please, Member Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The content, or necessity, of the content, of Article 14, which speaks of what must be obtained or of what documents to be attached to the event's application in the event that the event is of such a nature that it must be notified has been devoted to the Committee for an extremely long time. I think that the debate was well founded and quite necessary. With a solution that will be such or otherwise, we will, in one way or another, intervene in one of the exceptional powers of the local communities, which is defined in the law as the right to control public events or public meetings. Regardless of the fact that I am convinced that the law on public meetings and public events is a viable issue and that a new and modern law on public gatherings is needed, I am also surprised that in this proposal, and not least in the adopted amendment of the internal policy committee, such drastic, visual, explicit, if you wish, and without regard to the original competences of the congregation. Look. The procedure for the adoption of the law itself seems to me to be clear, or I am sure, that it is contrary to section 92 of the Local Self-Government Act, which says that in adopting the law, the procedure for adopting the law is to request or obtain the opinion of local communities if we interfere with the area of operation of local communities. This has not been done in this case and also because of the procedure itself. However, it is more evident from, I will say, both the marriage proposal and not least from the debate itself, that the applicant, as I have already said before, as well as most in the committee does not think or attribute to local communities in this case such roles as they would under law. Look. The Law on Public Collections regulates the pulse in certain environments in one way or another. These environments are organised under our legislation in the basic units, even in the constitution, this is in the municipalities which have their elected bodies, which have their elected administrations, and whose primary task is to carry out and manage local matters. Allowing any meeting or any gathering to take place, which is undoubtedly a tremendous impact on the steady course of life, even if it is not a local or local ordinary event, which is increasingly happening without the consent of the local community, is unprecedented in my case and must not be incorporated into this law in any case. The irony in all this is the amendment of the committee, which minimizes the role of local communities. This minimum, however, is that by implementing such a legal solution, the local community can only kindly be informed that something is going to happen in its territory. I ask you to judge, all present here, the appropriateness of such arrangements. And I am deeply disappointed with the solutions proposed. See, this goes in the direction of the gradual abolition of municipalities, this goes in the direction of killing even those initiatives that exist in the field of local communities in Slovenia, this goes in the direction of drastic encroachment on the competences of local communities, which is repeated over and over again from the meeting of the National Assembly. This results in an increasing centralisation and also the issuance of administrative licences is a clear example of centralisation. We know how the appointment of the Chief of Management units will play an essential role in the issuance of agreement for the events; even when appointing the Chiefs of Administrative Units, the local communities have the right to give only an opinion and the circle is concluded. In the opinion of the municipalities - as I said earlier - what is the saddest - is the ministry within which the service for local self-government works - here is also a partial replica of Mr Kremjar. I did not say that the Local Self-Government Service is preparing such proposals for laws, but the Ministry, within which the Local Self-Government Service operates. I propose that we simplify the matter so that we do not needlessly persist, in view of the majority will that this ministry prepares a simple proposal for a law on the abolition of municipalities, and the matter will be resolved in just one inch. Thus, Mr Bulgarian, and at such a pace, you are preparing legislative proposals that severely restrict and interfere with the competence of local communities. Sadly, though, this national assembly accepts and confirms them with its left hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague, I object to your implementation and your argument. We know all those who have deepened into this law that the conditions for public gatherings are largely tightened. What remains of the civil society institutions, as if something in the rest is not going as well as we would like, because they object to certain arguments that we are making this impossible by way of a decision or agreement of the local community. I think it is right that the citizens of that environment are aware of what will happen. Limitation and order must be ensured. Therefore, this implementation of yours does not have the right arguments and I will vote in favour of the first proposal, which gives citizens the knowledge that something is going to happen If something happens at such a time, those who do not want to hear it, if they are in the immediate vicinity, will go for a walk and others may listen and perhaps even agree on the merits, the eligibility of the public assembly and those forms of decisions or proposals that will be drawn up there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I'm going to support the first amendment myself, and we probably won't even vote on the second. Why the first? I believe that the proof of the local community's written notification is sufficient. The consent of the local community means one, in large cases, also a discretionary decision by one or maybe two persons. I think it's the least out of the ordinary these days, to put it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I will support the SDS amendment, but above all from this point of view: I believe that it should be one of the basic functions of the local community's tasks, that the local community grants permits for each event. I think the world is wrong with us. I am convinced that the local community must be allowed, at least in this process, to give its consent. Otherwise, the local community is alienated from the possibility of what can happen, which events can take place in the area of individual local communities. How placed is this amendment, because otherwise let's see, in fact, the matter is quite simple. [[...]] The local community is closer to people than the state. And the country may sometimes not know the protection problems that exist in a particular area, as the local community. The local community can be informed, but it can be informed at the last moment when nothing can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to replicate, in part, my colleague Rokavac: I believe that when the municipality is informed that an event will take place in its territory, the position of the party may be exercised in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, unless, of course, it is already notified from another address, where the manager of a particular area is or is taking place in the area, the land of which the municipality is owned, or in an object owned by the municipality. And in most cases, most cases are such that these public events take place in a public place where it is usually - it is a matter of public good and the congregation is informed in any case. So we only talk about this agreement when all of these are gone. However, it seems to me that the congregation - and we have also advocated on the Committee on Internal Policy - is informed of the event and if it considers that it is an event where more specific attention is needed in accordance with its municipal rules so that it can also apply it. Of course, if we were to agree, of course, it is also a question of restricting this right, which, of course, the State must only restrict it on the basis of certain legal conditions, not just in the first place or because an event is not acceptable to someone.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u138	Mr. Wolf, look, here's the thing. If the time limit is also clearly defined, how long before the event must be informed by the local community, then I can agree with you. However, if this is not explicitly defined, then the matter may actually be manipulation and the local community may be informed five before twelve. That's the key problem. And then, based on other instruments, it can no longer influence.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Wolf first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u140	Mr. Rokavec, if you read it properly, you would see that the organizer must present the proof before the application. Upon notification, it shall provide evidence that it has notified the local authority. What does that mean? That before he goes to a police station or an administrative unit or a police station, he also adds evidence that he has already notified. Thus, the congregation will be informed before the public authority is informed. Sooner. Read it and you will see that the proof must be brought; but the proof is that he will bring it, that he has informed the congregation by letter and by "hello". Yes, and the congregation is informed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I meant to say what Mr. Wolf has already said. At the time of the application, the local community must be informed and I think that this is sufficient for a period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u144	Well, I would like to ask Mr Vukko - I know that he has done a lot in the field of local self-government and that he still knows the difference between consent and notification - I ask him not to deceive or attempt to mitigate the damage that will be done in the area of local self-government by the possible enforcement of this law, to limit the damage to the area of local self-government, to limit the damage to the community's jurisdiction with such claims. Let me ask you to explain, I believe that he knows that he knows what the difference is or how he makes the difference between a notification and a consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc, then Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope, therefore, that the law would be unconstitutional in this part if you accepted what you are proposing. I'll explain why. Article 39 of the Constitution contains the chapter "freedom of expression" and this part also states that anyone has the right anywhere in the country - of course under certain conditions - to unite, to perform publicly, to have, in short, any public event. If you had taken the decision you wanted, 192 countries would have been created in this country, as each local community could have its own policy. For example, because it's easier to illustrate with a case, somewhere I'd be bitten, I'll say, but I should be seriously bitten by the LDS mayor, but the social-democrats would like to have a picnic there, for example, a public event, which, of course, needs to be notified, because it's such a meeting, a party, a bigger one. And that one would say, "No." And he's the executive. So, in this case, I wanted to show you -- because, I'm sure if there were ever such a thing, then it would be more the other way around -- but I wanted to show you this so that you would understand that such a provision "does not drink water" before the Constitutional Court. That is why it is quite enough, and this was also explained by Comrade Wolf if it remains as proposed by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We have three replicas in order, first Mr Wolf, then Mr Rupar and then Mr Rokavec. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u148	Replica to Comrade Sušnik. It's not a trick, I'm sorry. And because I have worked in the congregation for five, six years, and have faced these problems, I say with full responsibility that this is enough to enforce the legal benefits and rights of the congregation. However, the congregation will, of course, have to respond appropriately. However, it would be unnecessary for consent to be written for any small event that takes place in the general public. The major events, which have negative consequences for the municipality and not for citizens, are controversial; it is about parking inadequately to destroy agricultural areas, not to dispose of waste and so on. And in such cases, even now, where the cooperation between the chief of the administrative unit and the congregations was quite exemplary, they agreed on a council and informed the law of the matter. My wish was that - that is why I proposed to this amendment to the committee - that we also formally write this down and then enforce the right of the municipality to participate in the procedure. But it's not about deceiving, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I'm replicating Mr. Lavrinc. Mr Lavrinc, the mayors do not issue any administrative decisions or acts because they are not even legally subject to an exam from the ZUP, i.e. the administrative procedure law and, of course, have no effect on whether or not any socialdemocrat in the municipality would like to have any event. Of course, your interpretation can also be reversed. So if, say, the President, or the President, or the Director of the Management Unit, say, by the LDS, this ZUP has been created and has the right to decide whether or not to sign a valid document for the event, let's say if it is organised - I don't know, I will now say someone from the National Party, where you are probably also in conflict. But that's not what this is about. This is what I have already stressed and also said on the Internal Policy Committee. It may be the failure of administrative units to cooperate with municipalities or municipalities, with the management of municipalities. So this, these co-conspiracies that were once popular somewhere, is not the case. If we had written in some laws as an obligation of this council, where administrative units, where they have already been, combined with the municipality that these administrative units are tanning, connecting and negotiating, there would be no proposal today for the Sušnik or these replicas and nothing. Therefore, there is a lack of dialogue between the so-called representatives of the State and the representatives of the local community, which this territory covers. If that were the case, then there would be no doubt that we could share our views that this cooperation could be. Of course, it is not a matter of this law, it is a matter of completely different views or other laws, a passage of ideas in which, indeed, it may be, I will also say voluntary cooperation, as in some congregations it is going very well. Among other things, I can refer to the administrative unit Tržič, led by the president of the LDS Women's Forum, and to the municipal administration run by the Director, for example, directed or theoretically a little closer to the mayor, who is a social democrat. However, this is very successful. There we also agree on these arguments. Consider this, and there will be no more conflicts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. I'm calling about this one last time. But look at the following. I am convinced that the debate on whether the municipality has the option of consent or not is a typical example of the delimitation of jurisdiction between the municipality and the state. And secondly, the definition of whether this country wants decentralisation in this area or centralisation. The first amendment clearly defines the greater role of the State and the second defines the smaller role of the State. This will be decided by Parliament. But there's something else. It is clear from the debate that there is something else to feel. In fact, there is a lack of trust in the municipalities in this House. And also a statement by my colleague Lavrinz in this direction that we will have 192 arrangements or this particular case that some mayor will not give consent to one political meeting. I ask how many mayors there are in this country who would try to prevent a certain political meeting of a registered political party in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u154	Well, first of all, I'd be out of the 42nd section of the Constitution. Now to Mr Rokavac, and in part also to Mr Paul Rupar, Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Policy, it is only to know that he will have the opportunity, in a short time, to implement all these things, which he has previously identified as weaknesses, in the debate on laws, some of them: public administration, public servants and so on. As for this - different arrangements - Mr Rokavec: consent is an agreement, it is a prerequisite for the authorisation. We understand that. Consent: "yes" or "no" is a decision of the local community. That's impossible! Why is it impossible? Because this can be limited, assembly, public gathering, only on the basis of law, I quote the Constitution if the following values are threatened: "State security, public safety and protection against the spread of communicable diseases". Which means, the thing can't be: you won't; we're going to get creamed in the grass, we're not going to get creamed in the grass; we like them, we don't like them. Such criteria shall not be permitted by this constitutional provision. And so please don't tell me that all 192 mayors are experts in administrative procedure. The fact is, their conduct shows exactly the opposite. Therefore, I kindly ask you, because we have come to what is of my quality in this law and it has been proposed by the committee, and this is that the person who organizes such a meeting must first inform the local community and, if he wishes to obtain a permit, have to do so first. So I am convinced that the cooperation of the local community is legally correct, constitutionally correct, as well as - if you want from a pure functional point of view - properly prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jerovšek, then I hope that we can conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u156	Mr Lavrinc had previously declared himself to be a measuring interpreter of the Constitution and the laws. And he warned that if there was a word here, the local community, there would be 132 countries in this country. However, I think it would be much better and necessary if I could imagine it earlier when we voted on the immunity of the President of the Commission of Inquiry for his work on the Commission of Inquiry. However, as far as I know, the legislation provides - which is used reasonably - that a judge cannot be guilty of being tried. And this basic rule could be followed back then. Now there is an opportunity for a financial oligarchy that has come cheap to the money that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u157	Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u158	excellent lawyers are tried by those who work, this is Parliament at the investigative commission, and they are making reasonable use of the law on criminal proceedings. As a result, the trial is to one of the presidents of the commission of inquiry. There you go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u159	Lord Jerovšek, I warn you, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u160	concerned with respect for constitutionality. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Since the debate is no longer open, I am concluding the debate at the time of the two amendments to Article 14 and moving on to the decision-making process. First of all about the amendment under order number one, that's an amendment I'm sorry. [[...]] We therefore decide on the amendment under order number two, of which the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia is the proposer. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 36. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment under two has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 44 present. There must be more of us in the hall. I'm asking for so much attention. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. As the second ballot has not been carried out in force, I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes. We continue at 17.14 as we vote on the amendment under Article 14 for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u162	Since this is the third time we will vote on the amendment under Article 14, I ask you to take your seats. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment under order number one, whose proposer is the Committee on Internal Policy to Article 14. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 14. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 8. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 18 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 20 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 22 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 38 votes against none. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 30 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 33 and the Government's amendment to this Article, which the Committee supports. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 38 votes against none. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 38 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment for the new 40th article, of which the Government's proposer is the Government, the amendment committee supports. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the new article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new 40.b Article, of which the Committee is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 40 votes against none. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the new 40.b article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 43 and the Government's amendment to this article, which is editorial in nature. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Because no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against 3. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. I also put to the debate the following proposal for a decision: "The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia". Does anyone wish to discuss the proposed decision? As no, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and representatives of the secretariat very much for their cooperation. And we're moving on to 6. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Dr. Bojan Bulgarian, please. You can go to the pay phone. [[A voice from behind.]] Here, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have a relatively extensive novelty of the foreign law ahead of you. I will tell you very briefly what are the three essential sets of changes the novel brings. When preparing amendments to the Aliens Act, the drafter’s basic guidance was mainly the proportionality of the proposed measures aimed at protecting public interest and, on the other hand, the rights of individuals, in this case foreigners. The first important package concerns the harmonisation of the law on foreigners with the legal order of the European Union. Here is a particularly important Schengen acquis, the Schengen Convention, which requires certain amendments to the law on foreigners from us at this stage of EU integration. The first such change is the different competence of the police at the border itself in controlling the entry of foreigners, namely the part linked to the suspicion of terrorist activities. The second important change is a more consistent or consistent application of the principle of non-refoulement; the law previously failed to implement this principle in a consistent manner, but it is now clearly stated that no one should be returned to the country, even if, for example, it does not meet the conditions for some of our country's bibian status, if this endangers his life in that country. In short, this principle is consistently established, as Slovenia is also bound by international conventions and the Geneva Convention. The next important novelty, including the result of coordination with the EU, is the protection of minors. In accordance with the proposed amendment, the Centre for Social Work must immediately appoint a temporary representative to the juvenile, i.e. the foreigner who is in the process of forcible removal. One of the very important changes is that, following the amendment of the law, the State should be able to require the carrier who brought a foreigner to the Republic of Slovenia without the relevant documents or residence permits to recover the damage to the country which caused it by such activity and the costs and also to prescribe appropriate sanctions. Then there is also a small part of the amendments relating to visas. It is also a matter of harmonisation with the European acquis in this area. Next, the important news is that, with 1.1.2003, we propose that administrative units issue permanent residence permits at the first stage, so the ministry becomes a second instance, supervision of administrative units. The proposal also lays the groundwork for the uniform management of migration policy. If we have learned something this year, if you remember another year ago problems, crises with refugees, asylum seekers and so on, it is that the country needs a more coordinated single migration policy. The Novela also extends the circle of persons who can apply for a temporary residence permit for the purpose of family reunification - here we are also adapting to European legislation - even if it is foreign and if it requires family reunification; in short, if it is the family members of someone who is already a foreigner here, we are applying slightly easier conditions allowing these families to unite. And the last amendment in the field of law-adaptation to the European acquis is a newly defined reason for refusing to grant a residence permit in cases where it is obvious that the marriage has been concluded solely or primarily with a view to obtaining a residence permit, i.e. a false marriage intended to bring someone into the country and then, in short, to play law. The second set, however, is very important, and amendments to the law in the field of rationalisation of procedures for granting residence permits. Here, too, we see that waiting species are still too long, that people have waited too long for permits to stay, that it is strong not only economic but also school, cultural, scientific interest that these things take place faster. We have therefore reviewed all those provisions that require different permits, different procedures, and eliminated a number of conditions which, according to our assessment and practical data, have made these procedures most difficult. For example, a foreigner had to certify, inter alia, that he had a secured dwelling in the Republic of Slovenia which had to be certified by the notary, which caused exceptional problems. We've simply eliminated this condition. It is also easier to meet the conditions of health insurance, so that we really limit the conditions only to those most necessary to be exposed by a foreigner when he arrives in the country: that he has a valid passport, that it is clear that his purpose is to stay in the country in accordance with our legislation, that he does not endanger public safety, that he has not been punished, in short, that he is not a criminal in his country, etc. The law still retains the fundamental principle that an application for a first residence permit shall be submitted to the DKPs at the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. Only exceptionally, and in this case, due to family reunification, the relief condition for family reunification can be applied either to the DKP or to the competent authority in the administrative unit in the Republic of Slovenia. One, also a very important change, where I have to admit that this particular interest of the economy, science, culture, that the government can be more flexible, with less bureaucratic obstacles, accepts the kinder conditions for the arrival of some foreigners in such a country, in which it is clear that they are coming - some have said this in the debate, 'Pavarotes Article' - they come to the country not to steal, I don't know, jobs for citizens or with various criminal intents, or that the country has a great interest in these people coming so that the process is not complicated. For example, various embassies point to various visiting professors, culturers of opera singers, etc., who wait a few months for all these certificates, permits, and we suggest that the country simplifys the process substantially in such cases. Finally, there is a provision concerning posted workers - these are those who, at the time of the contract service in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, are in a working relationship with a foreign employer - and seasonal workers, where there were in fact large congestions because each worker had to regulate these permits himself. We are essentially transferring this to companies now. Those who employ such a worker have the right to regulate this status for them, and I think that we were also vulnerable to economic initiatives here, and this idea has also come from the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Pavel Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you, Madam President. So the committee met at the 16th regular meeting. I thank Mr Bulgarian for the detailed explanation of the proposal. You also have a reference in the report of the committee. Let me just mention that they participated in the debate: a representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, a representative of Amnesty International Slovenia, then representatives of the Peace Institute and government representatives, as I have already mentioned. Well, the Committee adopted two conclusions, namely: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners is a suitable basis for the preparation of the Second Treatment Act", and the second conclusion: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should, in preparing the text of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners for the Second Treatment, examine the comments and proposals made at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, or explain why it did not take them into account." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, Mr Petan will present the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! It should be borne in mind that this is already the third law with this content in the last ten years, which probably also speaks of the fact that this is a very important content, which, of course, can and must be adapted and followed by the situation. In 1999, when we adopted the existing law, it was obviously not in line with the European legal order. Now, because of what he wasn't, that is, of course, another question. We didn't want to, we didn't want to, but we couldn't put a text that was in line with the European order. On the other hand, it should also be borne in mind that after 1999, certain changes have been made that need to be taken into account. There is also another fact that this particular area may have been the subject of some kind of political manipulation. The fact is that events after 9/11 also changed our behavior and, above all, our thinking and, of course, the thinking of many other countries in dealing with this problem. There is another fact that is very important. This is the formation of different alliances, both political and economic. Here, I think, for us, the European Union is particularly important, with integration in certain areas as well as protection measures, it has led to different, particularly sharper solutions and measures in the field of the treatment of foreigners. One such fact, of course irrelevant to us, is the so-called Schengen border. With Slovenia entering the European Union, this means that part of our border will become the external borders of the European Union and a special regime will apply in this area. What this regime looks like, we can already see this at the current existing external borders of the European Union. And this is another proof that we must also take over the solutions of the European Union, perhaps not only because of the integration and harmonisation of our European legislation, but mainly because of ourselves. This harmonisation in some areas means certain restrictions, meaning that we have been more liberal than we have been strict so far. On the other hand, it is also important to take into account the fact that where things are simplified, it is better to simplify things rather than simply ostensibly freeze and argue that there are no problems and, of course, then the events are so left to themselves as is the case. The experience of how events are taking place, in our view, we probably have more than too much in Slovenia and, as shown by recent events, also the players of these illegal transactions are being treated strangely in our case law. Until we are members of the European Union, we are some kind of waiting room for a certain segment of people who want to join the European Union. This means that they are also trying to cross the border uncontrollably and illegally into our country and across our borders into the European Union: of course, this fact also requires certain measures, and therefore I say that it is better to simplify things in some ways than to close our eyes and act as if they are not. Of course, this also requires certain measures so that we can also deal with this issue and that we will adequately pair up the situation. This means that we must take quite a few measures. Many, of course, are fundamentally interfering with our thinking and our actions so far, especially since September 11th, when many things have come to pass and we will also have to change not only our thinking but also our legislation. We, in the Social Democratic Party, will support this law, but of course we expect that things will be further improved in this law's further process, and that if the situation is to change certain content, we will also support these things, so that this law will be better than it was in 1999, when we have not exactly accepted the situation and the situation that exists, and we must do so now after three years of amending such an important law in such a short time. Thus, the first law, the one in 1999, barely got along well when we had to change it. This is how we hope and wish that the one now ahead of us will be better and that he will take account of the situation, even in the light of our harmonisation with European legislation and the preparation for our, we hope, of course, closer entry into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Dear guests, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It's a long day, we hear another time. This time I hope I won't be too long. In the Slovenian National Party, on the one hand, we are pleased that this law will be regulated and that we will adhere to the principle and objective set out in point two on page 110, which states that the aim of the law is to comply with the acquis of the European Union. The European Union also claims to have very sophisticated standards for a high level of human rights, and we do not need to be too liberal here, as we are usually used to in the country, Republic of Slovenia. The law is restrictive, but in our opinion it is still not enough. Among the many elements of this law, allow me to emphasise two which are very important for the Slovenian National Party. First of all, the issue of the complaint about the refusal of a detention permit, which was widely mentioned by the guests at the meeting of the Internal Policy Committee. In this case, in the Slovenian National Party, we are absolutely in favour of a law which does not give this possibility, so the appeal of refusal of a detention permit, this permit, as you know, does not require an explanation under the law - is sufficient. Why? Firstly, we estimate that the competent authority, when receiving a person, a foreigner, whatever the name may be, is obliged to verify precisely whether his life is at risk in the country from which he comes. In this case, the competent authority will grant him a residence permit, in the appropriate form and content, in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. When they assess that the situation is different, that the permit for detention in the country, the Republic of Slovenia is no longer required, that is enough. Enough because we have bad experience when refugees of all kinds in the past came to us when we found out, at many costs and part of the courts, that this stay was not actually justified at all, of course, this person or these people complained and thus extended their time to continue their journey to Western Europe. We are also in the Slovenian National Party to exclude the right to appeal, for the same reason as I mentioned earlier. The first assessment should be correct, later complaints, if the decision is different from what someone who comes into the country, the Republic of Slovenia, wants it not to be. Last but not least, one more thing to talk about is even the responsibility of carriers driving refugees. For reasons of responsibility, some suggested that the liability of carriers should be excluded. Please, colleagues and colleagues, the biggest money is used right here. There were a lot of carriers, this has been proven by the judicial records, which have served huge amounts of money by transporting refugees. And now, according to the proposals made by some organisations, even this liability of carriers is excluded if only the carrier says that he is asking for international protection. If I'm the carrier, I'm gonna make a lot of money; if they get me, I'm gonna ask for international protection. I don't think you can play with these elements in this marriage. We know how Europe acted in the time of refugees and how it works at a time when refugees and refugees come to different countries, and we will do so if we are already adopting this law in accordance with the European Union, including in the country, the Republic of Slovenia. This is our position, the Slovenian national parties. Thank you for listening to me and for your patience.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Allow me to briefly present the opinion of the Group. The law on foreigners, adopted three years ago, was completely new to the foreign problem. It has already been said that this issue needs to be aligned with European legislation, but it all shows that a number of issues related to foreigners, their rights and obligations have remained inconsistent or that they are even contrary to European legislation and that a number of solutions have not been able to effectively implement the law. The current changes, if listed once again: protection of public interest, increased powers of the police when entering our country, consistent respect for the principle of non-refoulement, increased protection of the rights of children and minors, sanctions of carriers in relation to organised crime, greater flexibility in passports, transfer of competences to the European Union, simplification of the procedures for issuing permits and others, are extensive and we are pleased to see that the proposal follows a regular procedure, which also points to restraint. However, it is also appropriate to take into account the proposals made by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees concerning the maintenance and obligations of carriers and the issue of the non-refoulement of foreigners to their country of origin, as well as other comments made by the representatives of the groups dealing with this issue. In particular, comments on the long-term bureaucratic procedures that the novel is trying to resolve and other problems of foreigners, which is also pointed out by the recently established Committee on the Matrimonial State. It is also worth trying to pay special attention to good protection, particularly to vulnerable groups: minors, women, older persons, because a higher level of rights enforcement for these groups is the basis for European legislation in the field of foreigners and persons under international protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u172	Thank you very much. We have heard representatives of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal of the law amending and supplementing the law on foreigners is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law". Anybody want to talk? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision as presented. Let's vote! Again, we have failed to make valid decisions on the proposal for a decision. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There's only one more decision ahead of us. I think today we could close the 6th item of the agenda. Please, if you'll join us. Secondly, we vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. Since we failed to hold a valid vote for the second time, in accordance with Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure, we are obliged to vote in a decision after 10 minutes, so that we will vote for the third time at 18.01. At 5:59 p.m., I'm sorry, we'll vote for the third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-23-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask that you go to your seats, because for the third time we will vote on the proposal for a decision, that the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on foreigners, first consideration, is a suitable basis for preparing a proposal for a second reading law. This proposal is voted on for the third time. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 50 votes against 3. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. Under order number 2 of the report, the mother’s working body also proposes a proposal for a decision which, after consulting the Vice-President and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, should be classified among the views of the Government in the preparation of the second reading law, takes into account the following position of the Internal Policy Committee. The Government should examine the comments and proposals from the debate at the meeting of the Internal Policy Committee and take them into account or explain why it did not take them into account. I am opening a debate on this proposal for the position of the parent working body. Since no one wants to discuss it, we vote. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed position is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State and the Under-Secretary of State very much, including the representatives of the Secretariat. Just one more announcement. We'll continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. However, we will begin by addressing agenda items 26 and 27 and by continuing the meeting on item 7 and in order to proceed. Thank you so much and good night.
