ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u1	We will begin with the continuation of the 14th regular meeting of the National Assembly. There are also a number of Members and Members absent today. We'll start with point A1 and move on to point 3. I ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to warn Members and Members that the meeting has started. If the working bodies are still in session, please ask the Presidents to suspend the meeting and allow Members to attend the meeting. Once again, I ask that colleagues and colleagues come to the hall. It's already a few minutes past 10:00, and we're still not locked in. I can ask my fellow Members and colleagues to put their ballot cards in the voting room. Thus, we will have an approximate inspection of our presence. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking for peace in the hall! I will proceed with the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. Please take your seats. Once again, I ask for peace in the hall! I am informed that they are also detained today and therefore cannot attend today's meeting of some of our colleagues and colleagues: Battelli, Jelinčič, Dr. Brejc, Horvat, Kacin, Partljič, Gerenčer, Drobnič, Maršič, for the beginning of the meeting of my colleague Malovre, for the morning part of the meeting of my colleague Lenko and for my colleague Grošelj. Gerencher is present. Apologize withdrawal. Colleagues Levič, Štemberger, will also be absent for the morning part of colleagues Simšičeva, or colleagues Gaber, Germič between 11.30 and 13.00. Mr Brenčič apologized for the afternoon part of the meeting and for the opening of the meeting of his colleague Maximiljan Lavrinc. Colleagues and colleagues, I will determine the presence in the hall. Please press the key on the quorum. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. In the hall, we are strongly over the number on the "display". I'm going to find out one more time about the presence in the hall. I'm asking for peace. Please press "quorum" and notify your presence. Colleagues and colleagues, there are 58 of us in the hall. I'm gonna wait a minute, I'm gonna ask you to calm down, focus on the beginning of the session, otherwise I'm gonna have to order a fifteen-minute break, which I don't think is necessary because there's enough of us. I'm gonna rediscover the presence in the hall. Please press the key on the quorum. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present in the Chamber; the National Assembly is closed and may decide. I have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting, which I welcome. Today's continuation of the 14th session will begin with consideration of item 1a of the agenda, that is, amendments to the report on companies, companies or institutions subject to the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. Then we will move on to the third item, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public finances, and in order to move forward. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the 1st A-point of the agenda - AMENDMENT OF THE REPORT ON ECONOMIC SOCIETIES, ENTERPRISES OR INSTRUMENTS, TO WHICH, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FIRST REPARTMENT, 20. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment to the report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. I'm asking, does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? I take it he doesn't want a word. I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? They do not want the words, so we will conclude the debate and move to a vote on the proposal of the parent working body proposing to the national assembly to adopt the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, are subject to a ban on the conduct of business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment of the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." That was the conclusion. Anybody want to talk about him? I note that no one is involved, so we can move on to a decision on the proposed decision. Let us vote on the proposed decision! We are in the middle of a vote on the proposal for a decision! 55 in attendance, 47 in, no in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. This concludes agenda item 1.a. Let me remind you that we decided yesterday that we will consider the European Commission's regular report on Tuesday next week. That's how we move on to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Finance Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I ask the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, whether she wishes to have the floor to the proposal. [[He does.]] Please, Madam Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! You have before you a law governing the following areas: the area of governance of state and municipal real and financial assets and the area of internal supervision of public finances. The content of the law can be divided into two basic sets. The first set refers to issues that we are merely supplementing or slightly changing. These are issues relating to the creation of budgetary reserve funds, the management of the financial and real property of the State and the municipalities, and internal control of public finances and budgetary inspections. The second set of issues covered by the law and essentially regulated by this law are matters relating to the sale of state or municipal financial and real property, the transfer of real state property and municipal property for rent, and the privatisation of public institutions, public economic institutions and public enterprises. Although the latter issues are currently regulated by the law on the implementation of the budget. They were first regulated in this Law for 2001, and at this point in force in the law in force for the implementation of the budget for 2002 and for 2003. The content solutions do not differ much from those already laid down in the law on the implementation of the budget, but in some places they are somewhat complemented and, above all, more clearly and unequivocally written down. However, the amendments included in the draft law are based on the experience of the implementation of the law itself on the implementation of the budget in this part. The conceptual design of the bill is the same as the conceptual design of the whole Public Finance Act. This means that the law deals with fundamental issues relating to the individual areas mentioned above and leaves the operationalization of these issues to implementing rules, such as the Regulation on the Procedures for the Sale of State Property, the Rules, the Standards, the Internal Audit Methodology and, in part, the Rules for the Enforcement of the Budget. Allow me to take a quick look at the basic solutions in the law and to express some of the points that I believe are in place in the introduction. Perhaps the first issue we are changing is the question of creating a budgetary reservation. So far, we have had a solution in the law that envisaged the establishment of a budget reservation for the following financial year of 0.5 per cent of the total budget expenditure. However, the proposal we are offering you in amendments to the law is that a budget provision of 2% of the total budget expenditure will also be established in the following year. The reason for such a change or addition is, in particular, to reduce the risk associated with the implementation of the budget in the event that the macroeconomic indicators deviate from the planned year and the revenue side moves differently or that it is necessary to increase the need to modify certain expenditure, mainly due to macroeconomic frameworks. Such a solution is already envisaged for 2003, but we are now transferring it one more year ago. In the "real and financial assets management" section, it is prohibited for public institutions, agencies and other public law entities to acquire capital shares or capital investments in return. A distinction is made between the availability and management of assets, leaving the availability to the government where this is at the level of the State where it is at the level of the municipality and to the municipal council. However, management is left to direct or indirect budgetary users, and as management it is not understood to be a disposal of assets. It also establishes in law a mechanism for the creation of a central register of assets for which the Ministry of Finance is already in charge under the applicable law. By this law or by this amendment, we also commit budgetary users, both direct and direct, as private law entities, in which the State has its shares to report on the financial assets to the Ministry of Finance in an ongoing manner in order to enable the establishment of a full register of financial assets. Acquisition of the municipality’s capital investments is in the hands of the municipal council. The article on the purchase of real property is further specified after the new one, namely that the principle solution is that the purchase is the revenue of the budget or budgets when we have in mind the municipality. However, it is possible to use the purchase of real property also for rents and damages for the construction, purchase or maintenance of existing real property of the State or municipality. The issue of the payment of the purchase is also new, allowing for the possibility of the purchase being settled in several instalments. In this case, of course, there is a need for a bank guarantee to pay the price. A whole new chapter is added which regulates the sale of the property of the State or municipality and is applicable to assets owned by the direct or indirect budgetary user and also to assets held by the direct or direct budgetary user to which the majority influences. Disengagement must always be paid off. Only three exceptions are foreseen. These are animals, special technical equipment and warlocks. In any other case, any different solutions should be regulated by a specific law. The sale process initiated under the annual sales programme is followed by the appointment of a special sales committee and the adoption of a separate sales programme. The annual sales programme shall be adopted by means of a new one, which is different from the applicable law, the State Assembly or the municipal council. The government may modify or supplement it during the implementation, but in cases where the annual programme introduces new forms of property, it must also be decided by the national assembly or by the municipal council. Applicants for the annual asset sales programme shall be appointed. It also sets out the indicative content of the annual programme. The individual sales programme shall be adopted by the government and the law shall specify its proposers or content. Pre-emptive actions and methods of sales that must be adapted to the intended sales objectives and must ensure the transparency of sales are specified. In particular, there are three methods in play, namely public offering, auctioning and collecting tenders, which we have already had or what we already have in the existing law on the implementation of the budget. Exceptions shall also be made when the sale is made with a direct contract. Public tendering methods shall also apply to the provision of real property for rent. The rent is decided by the Government or the mayor on the basis of a separate programme. Privatisation of public institutions, public economic institutions and public enterprises can be done if this is provided for by a separate sectoral law or if the transformation is consistent with the national programme in the specific field of public service adopted by the national assembly. The same applies to the increase in basic capital, the inclusion of new founders of a public institution or an economic institution, where they are private individuals. The internal control and budgetary inspection solutions preserve the basic concept of internal control laid down in the applicable Public Finance Act. However, the text has been amended in such a way that there is a clear and clear concept of individual parts of the supervision of the public finances of individual services and the terminology prescribed by the European Commission in this area is being introduced. Solutions in the area of internal control between internal control and budgetary inspection shall be separated, with internal control covering: a system of uniform regulation of financial operations and controls for which the head of the budgetary user is responsible; an internal audit system for the budgetary user which checks the adequacy and effectiveness of the financial management and control system and recommends that the supervisor amend or improve the financial control system. It establishes a central service at the Ministry of Finance which is responsible for the development and coordination of the internal control and internal audit system, which has the task of establishing common operating rules, laying down standards, methodologies and other regulations in this field, as well as reviewing the findings of the internal audit services with the budgetary user and reporting to the government with the aim of correcting and improving the system. In addition, a special service of the Ministry of Finance is being set up to carry out an internal audit with budget users who are smaller and because of their smallness and the pursuit of the economy, it is not appropriate for them to organise their own audit services. In addition, it carries out the certification of annual statements, which the European Union requires in particular at this time for pre-accession funds and, after membership, for the entire European Union fund segment. The status of internal auditors and the conditions to be met shall be specified. The procedure for the educational process and the acquisition of the titles of the national internal auditor and of the tested national internal auditor shall be envisaged. The scope and competences of the work of the budgetary inspection are not different from those of the current solutions. However, the solutions are more clearly and unequivocally laid down in the law itself. Dear Members and Members! The government estimates that the law has been thoroughly addressed in Parliament so far, in particular in the Committee on Public Finance and Monetary Policy and also in the Committee on Budgetary Control. It was quite a number of meetings. A very in-depth debate has also led to a number of amendments improving the regime the government has proposed. Therefore, we propose that the law before you be adopted and thus improved by the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Does the president want a word? [[He does.]] Chairman of the committee, Comrade Pucka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u4	Mr President, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The fact that this is a very important change proposed by the rapid procedure is already clear that the proposed law has been dealt with by the Committee on Five Continuums and, with a very substantive opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, it has been necessary to set up a number of amendments on which the Committee's written report refers. As has already been said, the debate in this respect has been very much deepened. Certain things can still remain open and there will probably be a lot of talk about them, including in the debate following the opening presentations. In particular, I would like to point out that the three new chapters governing the sale of state or municipal, financial and real property are essential novelties of this law. The content of approximately the same provisions contains the law on the implementation of the budget. However, the proposed law deals with issues relating to the provision of real property for rent, which has also been regulated by that law, and deals somewhat more closely with matters relating to the privatisation of public institutions, public economic institutions or public enterprises. An important chapter concerns internal supervision of public finances. The scheme currently outlined in the current Public Finance Act is somewhat unclear, particularly as regards the distinctions between the internal audit carried out by the budgetary users and the audit to be carried out by the budgetary supervision or the budgetary control service at the Ministry of Finance, and there is also a duplication of the tasks to be performed by that service compared to the Court of Auditors carrying out external controls. At the same time, the provisions in force are not sufficiently clear in determining the budgetary control tasks related to the use of European Union funds, which has led the European Union to make recommendations and comments on the future regulation of this issue twice. The proposed law thus establishes a fairly clear concept of internal supervision of public finances and extends the concept of budgetary control to internal control, based on internal controls and internal audit by budgetary users, to the central service within the Ministry of Finance. There was a lot of debate on the question of the justification of the proposed procedure, this is a rapid-procedure hearing. The opinion was expressed that two such important content sets of the novels submitted would require a thorough examination under the ordinary legislative procedure. The proposed solutions raise the issue of national interest and it is therefore necessary to establish both the criteria and the criteria and guidelines for the privatisation of state and municipal property, especially due to the fact that the programme for the sale of state property on the basis of the proposed solutions is now within the power of the government and not more of the national council - a new 80. Otherwise, it would make sense for the issue of asset privatisation as well as public finance control to be regulated in a specific law in a comprehensive manner, since the proposed amendment to the Public Finance Act represents only a partial solution. As regards the proposed internal control solutions, the debate highlighted the questionability of the existence of European Union documents, which the drafter refers to as the basis for the proposed regulation of this area. The view was also expressed that the cessation of inspection at the time of the establishment of internal controls was unacceptable. On the question raised whether the government should obtain a preliminary opinion on the sale of municipal property on the proposed solutions, the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs pointed out in particular the indisputability of equal regulation of the procedure for the sale of state and municipal property in the proposed legal amendment. Uniform legal criteria are provided for, which must be complied with both by the State and by the municipalities, and the arrangements relate only to the way in which the property is sold. Otherwise, the Public Finance Act regulates the system at national and municipal level, as follows by Article 1 of the proposed law. In spite of the above, the Committee has made a suggestion that the Secretariat should draw up a written opinion on this issue, including a review of the consistency of the whole law with the Law on Local Self-Government and the European Charter on Local Self-Government. However, the Committee did not decide on this proposal. In this regard, in the context of the proposed solutions in the new 80.c., it was also pointed out that the municipal property sales programme was adopted by the mayor. On this point, the opinion was expressed that this article does not alter the current arrangements for the mayor to decide on this matter by the municipal council. In the debate, the Committee also gave particular attention to the proposed provision of Article 2 of the proposed law, which the Secretariat of the National Assembly also draws attention to in its opinion. With the proposed amendment of the text in Article 42(2) of the Public Finance Act, so far the limits of the appropriations of the budgetary reservation, 0.5 per cent of the revenue from the balance of revenue and expenditure still in force for the current financial year, change to 2 per cent, as planned for the following year, 2003. This raises the question of whether this amendment should already apply to the current financial year, irrespective of the budget adopted, since the provisions of Article 42 of the Law are included in the chapter on the implementation of the budget. In the opinion of the Secretariat, it would be appropriate to address this issue by upgrading the transitional provisions of the proposed law. During the discussion, the Committee noted that the proposed solution in the introductory explanation of the law was not clarified. It also raises the question whether such a solution actually replaces the balance of the state budget. In addition, the view was expressed that an irresponsiblely low level of budgetary reservation at country level must be aligned with the level of budgetary reservation in local communities, where it is 2 per cent, but nevertheless the transition of such a solution in terms of its validity to future budgets. The amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 6 March this year to the individual articles which the Committee further fully supported were forwarded to one of the Committee's meetings. The individual proposals for additional amendments to each article and the reasons for or against would not be specifically discussed, as they are detailed in the written report of the Committee with these five continuations. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Committee has adopted, and proposes to be approved by the National Assembly, amendments to the following Article: Article 1(1), new Article 1a, Article 3, Article 4, Article 5, Article 6, Article 9, Article 10, Article 10, Article 80b, Article 80c, Article 80a, Article 80a and Article 17a. I propose, on behalf of the Committee, that the National Assembly support the amendments of the Government and the amendments of the Committee that it has proposed during these proceedings when we have considered such an important law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, colleague Pucko. Representatives of the parliamentary groups are now on the agenda. I've got two applications. The first is a colleague of Peca on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. He will be followed by a colleague of Dr. Bajuk on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. I'm asking if any of the other MPs would like a word? [[He does.]] Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party. This is currently the order of the submitted parliamentary groups. First, I give the floor to my colleague, Mr Pečet, on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Behind him is a colleague of Dr. Bayuk's. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u6	Your Honors are here! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, allow us to first touch on the proposed procedure of the Public Finance Act, the existing rapid procedure. May I be allowed here to sum up the positions that Mr Pucko has just given, so that the treatment in the home labour body was five times. Five times this national assembly, or mother’s working body, dealt with the proposal for a law. And secondly, at all five meetings of the parent working body, a wild and high-quality debate was formed, according to the chairman of the committee. This proves to us that this law should not be dealt with quickly. If the mother's working body has met five times and if we are aware that this area or the law covering this area is the area that essentially determines the functioning of public finances and the area of public finances, we all know the impact that this has on the macroeconomic movements that have been spread to the life or way of life of all individuals in this society. But good! If you have managed to bring the law itself to this work, to discuss it today under a swift procedure, you have succeeded because of the political parties' engagement in this national assembly. We have always opposed this in the Slovenian National Party. And it's content. If the representative of the Ministry, Mrs Helena Kamnar, the Secretary of State, has said that the content of the proposed legislation today can be divided into two sets, I, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, will also touch myself in these two sets. For the first time, it was said that somehow the first set should address the management of state property.Let me say here that we have not yet been able to do so for 30 days, to the Minister of Finance of Tonet Rope, we have forwarded a proposal for amendments to the Slovenian National Party, with which we have tried to influence and with which we are trying to influence the area of public finances. He was particularly concerned with what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance has been trying to avoid in the last period. It's a bond issue. We have proposed, not only what the ministry vehemently claims that this law introduces better, better, faster control, but that in fact some others in this country would have power, influence and insight into the issuance of securities, either in the form of bonds or in monitoring, supervision, acquisition of credits that otherwise are dealt with by the national assembly once a year, that is, when adopting a budget or a final account. Later, of course, when it's too late. For all those who have not been particularly burdened by this law and the bonds which have been an integral part of both state and public debt, let me tell you that this country, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia under the tactics of liberal democracy since its inception, has been issuing, somehow since 1993, these are only the opening pages of the prospectuses of bonds, which in other words means that each of us has been owed more than 700 000 Slovenian Tolars solely on bonds of various loans, in short a public debt. Everyone is owed to that country, or owed in the form of a public debt of 700,000 Slovenian tolars, at the moment of his birth in that country, due to the inability of the Minister of Finance, exclusively to him. And none of us have any influence on that. The bonds are issued by the Ministry of Finance, as they seem. Wherever they feel the need for financial resources and, of course, because they are unable to afford so-called non-taxable sources of income, they will issue a bond. It's nothing to you. At the Minister's request, they sit down, issue bonds, and then they assign us all to a new one. In relation to this and in relation to public debt, which is, of course, due to the fact that it is only in February, this is last month, the Ministry of Finance issued a supplement to RS 29 and RS 34 bonds. The first is €22 million and the second is €17 million. This work is actually going through the National Assembly. This work goes beyond all those institutions that should normally be concerned that we do not give too much free time to the Ministry of Finance, which will thus lead us to the abyss where Slovenia has already been under the former state of SFRY. The public debt per capita is higher than it used to be in the SFRJ. And that's when everyone said, "She, the public debt is too great, every citizen is too indebted." Today, it seems like something self-inflicted. Of course, since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Finance Tone Rop, cannot obtain any other funds for the purchase of its fleet, for the purchase of new aircraft, for the payment of 1,500 consultants they have in the government. Since they do not finance it from elsewhere, they will, of course, burden Slovenian citizens. And interestingly, in the context of internal and public debt, the structure of this share has changed over the last three years. If, three years ago, the public debt structure was still considered to be a good thing, this would, of course, be in favour of the internal debt, the last year or the last three years has been a flashy leap of external debt. This means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is under Mr Drnovsk at the head, who is the culprit. One, and the Minister of Robb, who's guilty. 2, he changed that by 1998 we had made so much money on the Slovenian economy that there were no more potential, cheerful customers of bonds that they no longer believed in these bonds. However, I must say that these bonds are without a profit or similar clause, but because Slovenian citizenship is so poor and no one is buying these bonds anymore, they have begun to issue Eurobonds. Eurobonds, which have increased in the structure of public debt or total amount over the last three years, now amounting to EUR 655 billion in external debt. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that is sufficient reason to conclude with the first part, which was commissioned by the Secretary of State, Mrs Helena Kamnar. Allow me to find another reminder and move on to that substantive point, its second point, which is the linkage of articles or when it tells us that this regulates the process of privatisation of state property in one or another organizational form. The articles marked with letters are very interesting in the law itself. Articles 80 to 80 shall begin and they shall be dealt with or are in the subheading'sale of State or municipal, financial and real property'. In connection with this, I will take a summary of what the finance ministry has said. This law, which will be the basis for all future privatisations, and today we do not even know which ones will turn out or only some in our society are aware of, will regulate fundamental areas. So the law that we adopt governs the fundamental areas. And if I continue with the State Secretary's summary, the operationalisation or content of these procedures is left to the law. Under-laws, government decisions, different positions of government, and again this country will not know what it is. None of us in the 1990s at the time of the violation of the Constitution, but later on, does know about the procedures under way, in our opinion, the illegal and illegal privatisation at this time. In the Slovenian National Party, we claim that the content of the privatisation procedures, which is now fundamentally regulated by law, would have earned not a sub-legislative act, nor a government decision, but a special law. Ladies and gentlemen, today we decide to sell, sell what this country together has created all its history, perhaps the history of the Republic of Slovenia or the history of the SFRJ. And today we leave it all out. In creating all the values that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intends to sell, in our opinion, to give to individuals, and this to selected individuals in our society, we will be satisfied with the fact that the Secretary of State has taken seven minutes of our time and told us that this will be the content of the sub-laws. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope that you are aware of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and I must say that Articles 80a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, which regulate this most important area of the law itself, are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia continues to stipulate in its content that Slovenia is a legal country, that Slovenia is governed by legal order and that in Slovenia a legislative, enforcement and judicial function is separated. But we do nothing but the legislative function that this national assembly should play in every normal democratic society leaves to the executive function. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as an executive function whose primary purpose would be to carry out what this National Assembly tells it to do in the framework of the sub-legislative act that we provide, is the opposite position. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia says, someday in the future, we will sell the company XY, in which citizens of the Republic of Slovenia invested so much and so much, but with some strange conclusion it says, no, we will not sell it, we will give it to an individual who deserves the success of liberal democracy in the last elections. Of course, it would be about the very unconstitutionality of the proposed law, which, once again, I stress, is adopted by a rapid procedure that we consider to be least important in this country, because we need to know that there are no states of emergency, which otherwise define these extraordinary procedures, that at this time Slovenia is not being attacked by anyone or, at least, by a member group of the Slovenian National Party, we do not know that there is any aggression against Slovenia, nor do we know of any natural disaster that would force us to adopt such a law at this time - but no, you are all in favour of accepting it quickly, to give our hands as soon as possible, and to go to some kind of pleasant law that will only go into the soul of an individual Member. In all of this, it is important to stress whether I have already mentioned the legal and social state and at this point I have decided to take some more time because this rule of procedure allows me to do so, and I will also read once for a change for this speaker. The rule of law is intended to constitute the binding action of all national authorities on legislation. That's why we call it the rule of law. The Constitution and legal acts must ensure human rights and freedoms and their legal certainty against unlawful State interference. What we're doing today is unacceptable. The powers we give will be used in an unacceptable direction and in a direction that will go exclusively to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to increase public debt and to burden any of us. What impact this has on basic macroeconomic indicators, you probably know - if you don't know - ask your advisers - from the impact on price rises to inflation to non-economic or unbalanced offers by prices and demand to all those elements that cause the macroeconomic market to collapse. And once the macro-economic market collapses, we will indeed have to be in debt abroad if we are to artificially maintain stability in this country. I do not believe that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have decided, when they become independent, that they will or that some finance minister, Tone Rop, will be in debt on their behalf for thousands and thousands of marks, even though I do not like to use foreign currency without prior consent. No priors on all of this. From this point of view, the principle of constitutionality and legality is particularly important, and I am sorry to see that the Vice-President of the Auditorate has indicated these things to me. It would be nice if, once for a change, you, too, would come to the stage of speaking, or if you would at least intervene in my word at the moment when I'm talking about very important things, not by touching and interfering with the currency of the euro or the German brand, but by leaving this liberal democracy to think about you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u7	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u8	The concept of the rule of law is closely linked to democracy as a form of a political system. In a broader sense, as well as with some constitutional principles. And here is the importance of sharing power. For example, independence of the judiciary, equality before the law, legal certainty, political responsibility and similar matters. The proposals by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the finance ministry, today for future privatisation procedures, for procedures that none of us know about, except at the Ministry of Finance, are trying to obtain its foundation today. Its foundation, which it will always rely on and say, is that one day this National Assembly adopted a law on public finances, what do you want now? So it'll make sense to ask yourself that. When we lose everything of value in this country, at the expense of the fleet, again the governments of the Republic of Slovenia, at the expense of those few tens of thousands of trips that state officials in the state administration afford every month when they send them to Brussels, Strasbourg. Why, in order to say yes, Slovenia is also present there. Ladies and gentlemen, we are wasting this money on this country. That's why we're selling property. And only a bad master sells or gives property at a price. We know that the President of the State, who warned the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, has also been involved in this debate in the last period, to wait for the right time to raise the price on the basis of supply and demand to the limit so that we can call it a market price. And not sell for every force, just in exchange for ratings and so that the finance minister, Toneto Ropa and Drnovska, when he comes to the great halls of the European Union or their country, there, those great European men, will shake hands with them and tell them how to breathe in Slovenia, that we will feel European. It is our belief that the law itself, which we are dealing with today, is also a violation of Article 67 of the Constitution, which speaks of ownership. We know that property has not only an economic function but also a social function. And at this time of privatisation or in the dictatorships of privatisation, sales in the 80s are in breach of such an economic function of property, in which all of us, as well as the social function, have participated from a mirror image, which means that we will not get back what our parents are, what we have invested in in businesses through different tax policies. There is no option to get back at the sale, but this will be committed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for some of its, in my opinion, unconstitutional, illegal transactions, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing very well. All those who have insight into these things, you probably know better than I do. Further, let me say that, also in our belief, the proposal for a law which has been given to us is once again here, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on public finances, following a rapid procedure written in the Rapporteur on the 11-page fights. In the 11-page fights there is written a matter that will take place in the Republic of Slovenia until we sell the last stone of this land. And of course, you're all ready to accept it. You are all ready to lose control, for the first time, of what is called the country's securities, which the Ministry of Finance, day after day of issue, after the new Eurobond, are in other forms. She rented some extra credits in February. And in this first part, it makes sense to say that all bonds, since 1993, and to add them to RS04 of 270 million, I will talk about German brands, RS06 of similar size, RS08 95 million marks, RS10 of 52 billion tolars, RS92 9 billion tolars, RS13 12 billion tolars, RS14 6 billion tolars, very interesting RS15, which was issued about sixteen times in the amount of cca. 10 billion Slovenian Tolars, RS16 of 6 billion, RS17 of 6 billion, RS18 of 11 billion, RS19 of 6 billion, RS20 of 6 billion, RS21 of 20 billion, RS22 of 8 billion, RS23 of 10 billion, RS24 of 11 billion, RS25 of 8 billion, RS26 of 12 billion, RS27 of 17 billion, RS28 of 10 billion, RS29 of 13 billion, RS31 of change, we finally have one under 3 billion, RS32 of 23 million, RS24 of 12 billion and similar things. I just wanted to say that this country is issuing bonds, and countries are issuing bonds except when they don't have their own money to cover current and future transactions, they're issued for payment, they're issued by our government for sale, at least 15 at the moment, they're going to fix the banks that we're going to sell again and sell this country stuff twice. Allow me to conclude slowly, because one way or another I see that the effect will not be because you are all agreed in advance on how you will vote in these moments. Even earlier, the mother labour body, Mr Cyril Pucko, President, stated in his speech that the concept of control is clear in this law - a clear concept of control, that it is guaranteed in this law. Mr. Pucko, are you kidding? What a control system!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u9	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u10	None of us know about or ask for opinions or consent to issue bonds. I'm asking you nicely, let the fool work somewhere else! There's nothing in this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u11	My friend Peca [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u12	This law is one of the worst that this National Assembly is considering. Neither will the control system in the future, nor has it been in the interests of Finance Minister Toneto Rope, because he will be able to do what he has done so far - issue securities every month, rent loans and boast that everything is the most beautiful in this country. And Mr Drnovska's summary, when he was asked yesterday about macroeconomic indicators, where he said nicely, "Yes, we are working as expected, inflation has risen due to seasonal fluctuations and due to the newly introduced VAT, small rates for one point and high VAT rates for the point and half-percent rates and, of course, taxes and the tax rate for social contributions". In this country, it is also normal for inflation to leap up rapidly. In this country, it is also normal for textile workers to lose their jobs; of course, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says, "there is no prospect in textiles, but let us give all those who are in the textile industry, which was once the foundation of certain regions in the Republic of Slovenia..."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u13	Comrade Peca, I would like to draw your attention to the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u14	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u15	I would like to draw attention to the subject of this debate. I think you're going through the subject matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u16	Mr Pahor, I believe that even you understand what the area of public finances means, and I would therefore ask if you would let me finish my discussion by the end - not for long.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u17	Mr Pece, I have not interrupted you so far, and I will not interrupt you either, you have the right to explain your views, but I have the duty to be careful that you do not go through the framework of the debate, and that what you have just mentioned has not been the subject of debate, not on the committee or in the law, and I suggest that it is not in this discussion either. Please, you have the floor to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u18	Well, if the representatives of the United List are not interested in the workers who are losing their jobs, let them in the textile industry be the ones who, under the influence of agriculture because of the European Union, are losing their position on the market, then this is a united list thing, I will not agree to this and will not interfere with your policy. But I'm going to take your will into account, and I'm going to finish it slowly. In the Slovenian National Party, we oppose the proposal for a law because this law will have long-term negative consequences and will bring our country, this is the Republic of Slovenia, to that stage that it will no longer have its property, but we will give everything to foreigners, just so that some individuals will vehemently jump around Europe, around the world, and at home say that everything is nice and right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u19	I give my word to Dr. Bayuk. Mr Bajuk will present the views of the New Slovenia Group. He'll get the word of a fellow magician after him. Visa for presentation of the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The current amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act govern two extremely important areas: privatisation of state property, both financial and real, and internal control of the executive branch. Both areas are so important that they deserve to be treated on a regular basis. However, since both areas have been regulated with a few years of delay, we accept this as already well-known and completely inappropriate, especially in such a case, a quick procedure. The first area of privatisation of state property is regulated for the first time with a few years of delay, in our assessment less transparent and worse than was envisaged in the initial law on the privatisation of state property, which this great coalition withdrew at the beginning of this mandate from consideration. Too many important matters are left to regulation in sub-legislative acts, as has been the case so far on the basis of such provisional provisions of the law on the implementation of the budget. At first glance, we seem to have achieved something in the lengthy consideration of our amendments at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We have achieved that the government will only draw up a proposal for a state property programme and submit it to the National Assembly as an integral part of the budgetary documents. The same will have to be done by the mayor in the municipality and the sale of municipal property will be decided by the municipal council. Only the government and the mayor would decide on all of this, according to the original government proposal. If that were the case, we would be in breach of the fundamental principles of fiscal transparency, which our country must also respect. With the help of the secretariat for legislation, we have also been able to formally prevent changes, which in our assessment would be the wild, uncontrolled privatisation of public economic services and institutions or other persons owned by the public. In this proposal, the government has forgotten, in its original version, even what it has written this year, the country's development strategy in this area. But what I have mentioned so far is, on the substantive side, all we have been able to do. The ruling coalition did not accept our essential amendment to the labour force, that it should also be an integral part of the sales programme of capital or financial investments in all companies in which the State or municipality has a majority or a majority share, as well as in their subsidiaries, where the parent company has a majority or a majority share in them. In this case only the authorities of the companies, the mother company, will be responsible for the possession of the property, these are the supervisory committees. Such a solution, which we cannot agree with, in particular in the case of Telekom, which is in majority state ownership, means that, if this happens, we will be able to get into a decision-making programme that will propose the privatisation of Telekom without Mobilel or Siola. The sale of Mobilell will be decided by the Telekom supervisory board if the ruling coalition seems more appropriate to sell to Telekom and Mobil separately. Otherwise this law will apply. Such solutions are unacceptable to us. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance didn't want to understand us at all that according to our assessment, the state property in Mobile is the same state as that in Telekom, or according to home, mother and daughter are the same test. Nor did the ruling coalition accept our proposal or amendment on a clear definition that the fair value of assets, financial and real, is being decided by the government or the mayor on the basis of the professional basis provided by the relevant value assessors or value assessors of enterprises. First of all, they were not fair market value. Because we're not supposed to know that expression. Although in all international and Slovenian terms, international accounting and Slovenian accounting standards state that this is the value for which they are well-informed, I stress a well-informed buyer and seller. For example, if the buyer of the Maribor airport is not informed of the cost of using the runway, it is not possible to decide on fair value. Finally, our amendment was rejected, explaining that it was understood that the sales value was the responsibility of the government or the mayor. We hope so, but this should not remain in the field of hope that it will. But if that is the case, then there is a question of why we should be afraid to write it down in law. The practice also teaches us, in the just dying Slovenian Development Society, the main word was the value-addictators or company assessors. The Supervisory Board should not have even known their name, and the Director said that it was not in the discretion of the evaluators to intervene. Finally, let me point out that there is no criminal provision in the Public Finance Act for non-implementation of provisions to regulate the privatisation of all state property. This property, let me remind you, was as book-keeping as much as the total assets in social enterprises in 1992. In this regard, I would like to hear today what the responsibility of the privatisation commissions is, for example, those now appointed to privatise the New Ljubljana Bank, and the New Maribor Credit Bank. I am surprised that there are no warnings from the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly in this area. I would therefore like to hear today that his most responsible representatives would explain to us the criteria for defining sanctions in our legislation. As far as the internal control of the executive branch is concerned. These amendments and additions to Slovenia, relying on "according to regulation in the European Union", are regulated for the second time. Although I did not participate in the government structure of my country in 1999, I guess I won't be wrong to say that the government had already claimed that coordination was ensured. At the end of 1999, and at the beginning of 2000, I, like everyone else, could read two expert articles on the subject in the Economic Gazette and find that this is not the case. Today, the government says that the European Commission only requires a clearer definition of internal control, without delay, so that we can close Chapter 28-Financial supervision in the context of our association. In these demands, the European Commission is justifiably critical and difficult. However, I would like to point out that it is not only a question of the conceptual completion of the law on public finances, as it is trying to make an impression, but that we have not actually established in practice in two years, but that we have ensured the necessary functioning of internal control. In our current consideration of the changes in this area, we have actually contributed, on the basis of our amendments with great effort, to a clearer definition of internal control. However, we have not succeeded in those things that would provide minimum assurance or sufficient assurance that we will have proper internal control in the next two years according to the standards of the developed countries. The content that we regulate in three or four articles of the Public Finance Act is regulated in specific laws or in whole chapters of the system of public finances in democratic countries. We, too, leave everything in this area to regulation in sub-legislative acts that do not oblige responsible holders to liability. Why do we assess the proposed changes in this way? On behalf of the government, the government explained to us that we have not developed internal surveillance for objective reasons so far, because there are no personnel for this in Slovenia. To translate and issue only standards applicable to the economic sector, the Slovenian Institute educates the internal auditor only for the economic sector and not for the public sector. That is why he should not be qualified, and that is why the ministry will ensure all this, but so far we all know that it has not done so. It agreed to cooperate with the Court of Auditors in issuing internal audit standards, as we have also pointed out this necessity with our amendments. However, we must bear in mind that the Court of Auditors has not yet taken care of the entire professional basis of its operation in the good seven years, even though these obligations were clearly recorded in the previous law in the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors also does not wish to include in the development of the external state audit an official profession within the framework of the Slovenian Institute of Audit. Both the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance are prepared to engage or request the participation of individuals who also operate within the framework of the Slovenian Institute of Audit. However, they are not prepared to listen to initiatives to grant certain public powers to the Slovenian Institute for Audit in the field of the public sector. This would be normal, especially in a relatively small country such as Slovenia, which certainly has certain limitations, but must have everything that is large, although relatively small. At the international level, the so-called IFAC, "International Federation of Accountants", is also a member of our Institute. IFAC has also developed public sector standards, especially accelerated since 2000. Development is similar within the European Union and its organisation of FEE accounting and audit experts is also active in the public sector. This is why I cannot understand the Government's insistence that our Slovenian Institute should only develop expertise in the economic sector. In my efforts for the competence of the Institute, which I started with the proposed amendments to the law on auditing last year, of course I did not consult anyone from the Institute. The Institute also seems to be satisfied with its current position. Thus, the fact remains that there is not yet sufficient assurance in advance that Slovenia will adequately develop and catch up to international development in the public sector in the area of internal and external audit, and of course also public accounting, without clear institutional responsibilities. The internal auditors for the public sector will not be so long as the government does not make public the need for them until internationally comparable programmes for their education and public education are established; the same is true for the state auditors of the Court of Auditors. In this regard, I must say that it is very disturbing to note that the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs does not monitor the necessary development of the standardisation of the profession in this area and that it proposes or prohibits the reference to international standards in this field in Slovenian laws, as if this were a matter for the adoption of a foreign legal order. Of course, this is not the case - it is a matter of taking on professional criteria. The government has agreed in some of the solutions to the Public Finance Act on the irregular legislative requirements of the secretariat, in our opinion, because the profession has barely chosen to mention the international auditing standards in the revised law adopted last year, but the secretariat is now resetting its problems in this area. The secretariat also intervened in the government's regulation or proposal to place a budgetary inspection outside internal control, somewhere in between. By the way, it is not wrong to maintain a budget inspection in the selected internal control system of two models known to the European Union. From a systemic point of view, however, it may be questionable whether it is true that the Ministry of Finance by budgetary inspection intervenes with the judiciary and other than the executive branch of the independent institution. Does not the executive power in this area exert some disguised pressure on these institutions? Why would it not be sufficient for them to be monitored on a regular basis only by the Court of Auditors, for example? These are indeed questions for the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. In addressing our amendments, the government or ruling coalition has also rejected our amendments regarding reporting on internal control of the National Assembly. The proposed arrangements are known in countries to which we must compare ourselves. That is why our hope to provide the necessary internal controls on budgetary spending is very small. If we do have the same common goal, then this should not be rejected by the government. However, it is not possible to get rid of the feeling that the government only wants to meet the minimum requirements of the European Union for the closure of Chapter 28. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. The position of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group will be presented by a colleague of mags. A visor. Please. I ask if any of the other members of the Group wish to clarify their views. [[He does.]] DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I would end up or start where my fellow Member, Dr. Bayuk, ended up. In this regard, the finding that, in this amendment to the Public Finance Act, the desire is merely after some minimum regulation of the situation, but it does not wish to resolve transparently and effectively both the control of the use or control of public finances, internal control of public finances and, of course, transparent, efficient and, of course, fair, even though the word has already been used many times, fair methods and ways of selling state, real and financial assets and, of course, as a consequence, municipal property. Why this conclusion? I would also like to tie this conclusion to two content sets followed by the novel. This is the content of the privatisation of state and municipal property and, of course, the content of the internal control of public finances or the domestic control of how state money is spent in the public sector in direct and indirect budgetary users. First, it should be noted that the original text contained in the new text covered such unacceptable solutions that we can bring to bear the idea that the government or the mayor of the municipality or the government at the level of the State should prepare and adopt a sales programme for state or municipal real and financial property. In short, privatisation, the manner in which these shares are sold would, of course, depend solely on the executive branch of power and could also change peacefully during the year, if the money were to run out and somehow coordinate and sell uncontrolled assets. This would be an extremely unacceptable solution, and I am pleased that on the committee we have managed to convince the government that we are only shaping together solutions so that this will not be done by the legislative branch of government, both at the level of the municipality, this is of course the municipal council, and, of course, at the level of the state, this national assembly. I can illustrate this danger to you on one of the cases I've been involved with myself. For at the end of the year, a congregation wanted to sell a unique cultural monument for its ridiculously low money because it had run out of money to cover all expenses. And of course, the decision on this would only be on the mayor's side to do it, sell it, do of course irreparable damage and, of course, the story would be closed and the damage done. I therefore believe that it is necessary to have this solution in place so that the sale programme of state and municipal property is governed by the legislative branch of government or by the national assembly or by the municipal council at the level of the municipality. However, it must also be clear that the component of the sale must also be the sale of capital and financial investments in all companies where the State or municipality has a majority or a majority share. I think this is very important and that is why in the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia we have also proposed an amendment that you received on the table, that these capital and financial investments, or this sale, are also the subject of sale or the subject of a sales programme of state or municipal property. However, I would like to express, according to our assessment, another essential dilemma that arises when state property is privatised. The legislation or this amendment of the law provides only for procedures for the sale of state property, while the State of Slovenia does not have a clear picture and does not have a clear substantive strategy for the sale of state property and, of course, also links to some foreign strategic partners or thus to the arrival of foreign capital. I think that after ten years of independence in the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, in the final stages of the approximation of the European Community, we should also look at pure wine and decide which are the strategic economic sectors, which are those areas, even those in which Slovenians will also build economic and their own identity in European integration, and for which it would be right to have a Slovenian majority share. And which, of course, are those companies that urgently need a majority foreign strategic partner and, of course, foreign investment, a healthy new capital which, of course, in globalisation processes will also somehow take care of the perspective of these companies and new jobs and, of course, also some development. In short, we do not have a clear picture, nor in banking as one of the most vital branches in which we will be and how we accept this today, we will also sell these shares or not sell them. I don't think the government has answered these questions yet. It recalls and always adapts its views to the current climate, particularly the climate in public opinion and pressure. However, I do not think that this is the appropriate way to strategy our country's economic development. I think we should set up a programme here more clearly and more decisively and, of course, implement it. With regard to the definition or provisions governing the way or procedure for the privatisation of state and municipal property, I would like to refer to another very interesting fact, since there is no provision or criminal sanction within the framework of the amendment of the law which somehow governs this area, what happens if someone does not respect these methods or does not respect the procedure set out here. It can happen that someone deliberately skips some of the urgent things that are defined in this process or in this law, of course, to sell off property, and in the end it will remain just a story or a lesson for others. I think that the Public Finance Act should define criminal provisions for the non-implementation of provisions governing the privatisation of state and municipal property. This also refers to the repeated claim that we need or need in Slovenia and we still need a comprehensive system of privatisation of state property, where we will not leave most of the solutions to sub-legal acts, but we must incorporate them into systemic legislation, which will be very transparent and in some effective and fair way to regulate the sale of state and municipal property. It's not like that. Here we find only, I would say, the basic provisions of the procedure taken from the law on the implementation of the budget, and most essential matters leave to the law, which we do not think is an appropriate solution. Hereinafter, I may just briefly touch on another, also important or even more important area, namely internal supervision of public finances. From the text of the law, and from the conclusion that there is, in fact, no or very few experts to carry out or actually to take care of the implementation of these provisions of internal control, that these people are not present, and that the Ministry of Finance has not in fact taken care of the circumstances in the long term of the need to regulate this area, provided that they can have a satisfactory, adequate professional staff to oversee the use of public finances. I believe that, in fact, this is probably somehow understandable, because if there is no interest in internal control over the use of public finances, of course it is also not guaranteed and creating the conditions for such supervision. General, we declare that we are always in favour of supervision, but when it is necessary to ensure the conditions for functioning or the functioning of impartial and effective internal control, we are usually in denial because it is not in our interest. In short, the novelty of the law is to feel that internal control for a long, long time will not be established to an effective extent, which would offer the appropriateness and transparency of consumption or ultimately ensure this transparency of the use of public finances, and it is only a minimum solution that we have probably had to sum up and define ourselves to it, due in particular to Europe, not because of ourselves. Therefore, in the end, I would like to point out that this novelty should address, in particular, the problems with which the sale of state property and, of course, the control of public finances is currently taking place, because of those problems that are currently present in Slovenia and will be present in the future, but not only the abuse of the European Community in terms of minimum coverage of their requirements, or whether we can implement this or not, but of course, it is a matter of the unconscionable future or of the implementation of this law, which is not adequately regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. The positions of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Comrade Pohorec. This is also the last representative of the Group of Members on my list. Then they will have the word of a Member and Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. The Public Finance Act is just one of those who is always having a lot of attention and much debate when we want to change it. Of course, in many areas, when we prepare, debate, adopt a budget and law on the implementation of the budget and other system laws that are related to it. Of course, there have been so many issues in the public atmosphere in recent times around state property, either real or capital investment and the way and the reasons for selling it. I think that all of this together in addressing this law and dealing with these issues is extremely painful, we are concerned about this property, we hear such and other information about what is happening to it, and it is difficult to verify them all. Here is the sale of banks, here is the sale of companies that have been in the SRD, and if you want the Union brewery, where we have also signed certain, what I know, proposals, calls to the government and so on. We probably had some real information and knew what we wanted with our signature. The sale of banks, which was one of the so many questions of how to remain exclusively Slovenian property and so on, I also, for example, spoke to some leading officials in one of the banks that are up to date and also received completely different information, as I sometimes had that the final outcome for the future of this bank was also in the sale of the state share to a third party. The law that we have now been given to deal with has been created because the current certain chapters, which have not dealt with certain issues adequately with quality, appropriately well, operationally enough. That is why the government has come up with proposals that have also been made in the Financial and Monetary Policy Home Committee with extraordinary attention, many discussions at many meetings or follow-up meetings, which we have not been able to accept and confirm with our left hand. Many amendments have been tabled from different sides, both the government and the committee, both from the parliamentary groups, and I believe that those that we have drafted on the committee at the end are, however, what we want the law to have in the chapters governing the sale of state property is an appropriate solution for determining the annual sales programme for this property. So we can somehow avoid the obvious that the National Assembly will have no role to play in this and that only the government or a third party will decide on this sale on its own terms, as a specific sales programme for the sale of this item, in actual form or in the form of financial deposits will be developed for a particular case. The law expressly prohibits the free disposal of state or municipal property. However, in the case of the State, it allows for certain exceptions which I consider to be justified. It's that property that the state, the current owner, somehow doesn't manage well enough, they fail, they're ashamed of even some environment. These are certain military facilities, guards, barracks, and others with which the congregation might be better able to manage or find a suitable business object in a particular facility. I'm sure that's what we agree with. So the law had a lot of attention. By discussing on the home committee, in which we have also participated, the creation of a number of amendments that have been adopted by joint efforts, both the Committee and the Ministry of Finance and the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, will allow the law to have, in our opinion, adequate quality and the capacity for operational and quality implementation, and will also have sufficient control over the implementation of this. We believe that it is suitable for reception, along with amendments that were supported on the parent's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Comrade Pohorec. We have thus exhausted the presentations on the positions of the groups. I have no declared Member who would like to speak in five minutes, but I will now limit the debate to this time. Does anyone want a word? Yes, he does, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u27	If I may just say so, because there are significantly fewer colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber than would be necessary to decide after the end of the hearing at the first stage. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall to make this possible. Please, Comrade Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you very much. When we decide on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public finances, we must urgently ask what is the state of Slovenian public finances; and the answer is clear for some time now that the only real expression is that we are facing a catastrophic state of public finances in Slovenia. Despite this overlap, despite the real denial of the level of the budget deficit in such a way that when material evidence is placed on the table or even the finance minister finds it to be one percent deficit, a further one-and-a-half percent deficit will be added this year at the expense of concealment in previous years. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister finds that this is a total of 1 per cent. And at such performances, of course, it is difficult to trust the solutions proposed in this law. And also on the basis of previous statements by colleagues who participated in the Finance Committee, it is more than clear that the intention of this law is not on the line of what is otherwise stated in the explanatory statement, but that it is likely that it is a matter of creating free time for certain financial lobbies and also for the Minister to privatise the state's real and financial assets. And the work on how to limit control, although there are high words, nice words about control, improvement, you seem to be approaching the intentions of the European Union, but the distinguished representatives of the government in the very explanation of this law admit that the government has in the past submitted a law, a proposal for a law on the privatisation of state property and that you have withdrawn it yourself because it was based on weak legal and systemic origins. I thank you for this recognition, although you are constantly trying to convince us that you have done the best you can with the current proposals. As a result, in this area concerning the privatisation of real property, both state and financial, I have already pointed out in the law on the implementation of the budget which has so far governed this year's treatment some shortcomings, some clear issues which suggest that this true interest in order for order to take place here has not been the case. And also about control. You mention here that you're improving control, this internal control and everything. However, I would ask myself how in a situation where there are many areas, despite the intense efforts not to make the mistake that is taking place, these financial affairs, corruption affairs, have nevertheless penetrated. It's all in the same set, actually. The DARS affairs, the Red Cross affairs, Slork, the affairs of the gambling agency, human resources in this place, the recruitment of people to the Anti-Corruption Office, some controversial human resources solutions. It seems that in the past the government has actually done the most to blur and disable control. Here, too, I wonder whether it is not a similar situation to what we were faced with 14 days ago, when we had the Insurance Reserve Act or the amendment of the Insurance Act, where we found that in the past the same people were preparing solutions, which then publicly switched to insurance companies and represented completely different interests. And I'm also asking here whether, even in this situation, the manufacturers of these laws are not really like them, which are driven by related, financial and I don't know what links to purely other power centers that have purely other interests. [[Pisk.]] I'll finish. This scepticism was expressed here. This skepticism further increases the skepticism of actual intentions, of some transparent law, by proposing it quickly. These laws, or this law should be adopted by normal procedure, but of course it is five years late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Anyone else want a word? Otherwise, we'll move on to the Secretariat. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the particulars mentioned in Dr. Bayuk's debate, where he stated that the Secretariat had defined certain solutions to internal control, namely budgetary control, I must clarify that the Secretariat is operating within the framework of its competences under the rules of procedure of this national assembly and that it has not been defined on these matters. I'm guessing there's been some kind of replacement here. Maybe this was about the government's legal service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u31	That was an explanation for part of your performance. Dr. Bayuk's colleague. Come on. Please, colleague Weber. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! I would like to discuss the amendment of the Public Finance Act in the part where we can see that both state and municipal property can represent a very great potential for development if we can, of course, move it or prescribe it or prepare appropriate legal bases. However, if this is not the case, it may be a major obstacle, both in the development of the country and in the development of the municipalities. Up to this point, the real situation has not been sufficiently regulated, covered, and as a result, there have also been many problems, differences and, in fact, poor will, when there was a chance to resolve or develop an economy or develop certain social activities over a certain period of time. This is certainly not good at this time when we are following extremely rapid development dynamics. That is why this amendment of the Public Finance Act is certainly necessary and I think it will also make a great deal of contribution to coherent regional development, because many times it was also state property in some environment - it would be possible to devote it to development, but because these criteria were not sufficiently clear, of course this was not happening or was coming in a way that prevented a potential investor from, for example, deciding to take such a route. In particular, I would point out the problem we have tried to solve in some laws before the amendment of the Agricultural Land Fund Act. The fact is that we have a regulated or envisaged manager for a particular asset, but not for a particular asset. And the very building lands, the ones most needed for development, have not actually been and are not adequately resolved. In part, this process will be resolved by this Public Finance Act, and some of it will have to be followed by other laws, in particular the Buildings Act and the Space Regulation Act, which will also define in detail the use of space and also procedures, or determine how detailed management is to be carried out primarily with those lands that we are earmarking for development, and this is very building. Given that these laws, which we are considering, in particular the latter two, on the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings, will not be adopted so quickly, because they are large-scale laws and are provided for in both cases of regular procedure, this law will already regulate some things before that. That is why I will support the amendments to the Public Finance Act, which, of course, was supplemented by amendments that were drafted on the Committee, because they are really approaching those forms, which means that state and municipal property will also make a major contribution to the development of both the municipality and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if one third of the colleagues present oppose it. I am putting this motion to the vote. I ask that the National Assembly vote on it. We are in the midst of a vote on a procedural proposal to vote together on articles to which no amendments have been tabled. There are more of us in the hall; I think it was a lack of attention. So once again, I will invite so many colleagues and colleagues who are not in the hall to join us, like those who are in the hall, to be a little more attentive. There's a lot of us in the hall over 60. We will vote again on the procedural proposal. Please vote. We are voting on a procedural proposal. 50 present. 36 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Thus, we can go to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. You received an overview of the amendments tabled today. First, I will put the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1 into the debate. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. I therefore propose an amendment tabled by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to Article 1 for the vote. We're voting. I'm asking for peace and order in the hall. 54 present. 49 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We can vote on the full text of the article. Let's vote! 53 present. 50 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of Article 1 is adopted. For the new Article 1a, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has tabled an amendment. Anybody want a word about him? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I propose that we vote on the amendment under order number 1 for a new Article 1. We're voting. 56 present. 52 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've adopted a new Article 1a. On the other hand, we have a review to Article 3 Please. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] We have an amendment to Article 3 of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Anybody want a word about him? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 3. We're voting. 52 present. 42 for, no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We can vote on the text of Article 3 in full. We're voting. Let us vote on the text of Article 3 in its entirety. 46 present. 39 for, no one against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 3 has been adopted in this respect. At Article 4, on the other hand, we have one amendment, the Committee on Finance. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We'll decide about him. We're voting. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 4. 54 present. 51 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] The amendment received support. This way we can vote on the text of Article 4 in its entirety. We're voting. I will put the full text of Article 4 to the vote again. And I'm asking for a meeting in the hall. We vote on the text of Article 4 in its entirety. We're in the middle of a vote. 55 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] Article 4 is adopted. We also have an amendment to Article 5. Anybody want a word about him? I guess not. And that we can vote on it. We decide about him, please. We decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 5. 56 present. 40 for, 11 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has received support. We vote on the text of Article 5 in its entirety. We're voting. We vote on the text of Article 5 in its entirety. 51 present. 37 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] The Article has been adopted. We also have an amendment to Article 6 to the second and third stages of the review. The amendment of the board. Anybody want a word about him? [[He doesn't want to.]] So I conclude the debate and put this amendment to the vote. We vote on the amendment of the board. 53 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing he's got support. We therefore vote on the whole article. We're voting, please. We vote on Article 6 as a whole. 52 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The text of the Article shall be adopted. We have an amendment to Article 8 as well as an amendment to the Committee. Anybody want a word about him? [[He doesn't want to.]] So we can decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 8. We're voting. 53 present. 48 for, no one. Against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on the full text of the article. 49 present, 43 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of the Article is fully adopted. We have two amendments, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on the 3rd page of Article 9. I'm putting both of them in a debate. This is an amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 9. Anybody want a word about him? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we will vote first on the amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 9 proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 54 present, 39 for, one up. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. The Committee on Finance is proposing an amendment under order number 2, which I shall put to the vote. We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the Finance Committee to Article 9. 53 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have also adopted this amendment and that the national assembly can decide on the text of Article 9. We're voting. The attention has fallen again. I will put the full text of Article 9 to the vote again. Can I have everyone's attention, please? We vote on Article 9 as a whole. There's a lot of us in the hall over 60. 48 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that we have adopted the text. On the 4th and following pages we have tabled amendments to Article 10. In particular, I warn the National Assembly or Members of Parliament that you also have on two papers the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party and the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I am opening a debate on all the amendments tabled to Article 10, and I ask who wants the word? Colleague Školč, colleague Visjak and in line. Please, my fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u34	I would like to discuss the amendment to Article 10 with Mr Cyril Puck, the first-signed, where he says: "If the state transfers its institution rights to the municipality or the municipality to the country, the real property managed by this public institution shall also be transferred free of charge." I have two or three concerns about this amendment. The first is that the regulation of this matter does not fall within this law and that the purpose of the applicants is, in fact, to facilitate the regulation of certain open issues arising from a situation which is correctly written in the explanatory statement, but which cannot be regulated in a way that is not to transfer property, but in a way that indeed regulates the rights and obligations of the institution. The problem is in the public institutions associated with the amendment which this law, or which it brings, has been linked to the fact that there has been a temporary arrangement for ten years, where there is on the one hand a national cultural programme, on the other hand, that the municipalities have been redefined their obligations towards the institutions set up by their predecessors. After that, this process or chain of experiments will end and hypothetically there will be another important segment to sustain as a result, not only with this solution. Otherwise, even if we agree with this purpose to hang certain public institutions around the country's curve, at the same time as their assets, the matter is so written that it is also problematic. She's troubled twice. First of all, because it essentially supports real property. Anyone can resist this and this is what this is about, I'll say, despite all the substantial amounts, if we're talking about the value of this property. Of course, it is also problematic in certain special situations when public authorities carry out their activities on property that is not owned by a congregation or that is not owned by a country. I'll say it doesn't look so hypothetical in case it doesn't happen. However, it is likely that cases could also be obtained and that this would prove to be the case. The theatre museum, founded by the Republic of Slovenia and also by a complex insert, operates in premises owned by the municipality. One part of their activity, I think, is contractually running even in private spaces. Let us allow the possibility that this is a hypothetical situation, but there are a number of situations where public institutions rent and manage certain spaces on the free market. This law would then, if we literally understood it, also dissipate private owners, not just the congregation or the country, if this change occurred. I therefore warn against this solution, and I believe that it is necessary to discuss when a law will come to pass, which is trying to regulate the network of these public institutions and the appropriate infrastructure in the field of culture, or when a national programme that will determine the policy in this area will come into play. However, it is not necessary for these public institutions to have their own assets at all times. This solution, however, implies that they are managing something. The public service can implement its programme in rented premises. In this case, the obligations of the founders or co-funders, as you wish, are clear as to the costs incurred by these leases. And I think that this discussion is unnecessary because it does not solve the most important, it is the attitude of the founders towards the institutions they have established. That's the key to the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Comrade Sculpture. I'll give my word to my fellow mags. A visionary, a colleague of Celigo, a colleague of Mohet. Did anyone else want a word before, and I missed it? [[No, no, ……]] Let's do it in a row, buddy mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much. We have proposed an amendment to Article 10 to amend Article 80a, paragraph 2, of the first paragraph. It is, however, that we want, on the basis of the proposed amendment, that these provisions on sales procedures also apply to the sale of state or municipality financial and real property in companies in which the State has a majority or a majority share, as well as in their subsidiaries, where the country or society has a majority or a majority share in it. It is simply said, however, that we consider, let's say, one case, as already mentioned by colleague Bajuk, is an example of a company that owns 100 % of the company owned by the state. We believe that even for the sale of this company, the case is to- say- Simobil in the case of Telekom, that in this case it is also subject to sale in accordance with the provisions of this amendment of the law. This is a similar question, and we believe that it is state money or state property and, of course, we believe that there must be a similar procedure and similar principles for the sale of this property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Comrade Cheligoy, behind you, Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Paragraph 3 of the second paragraph of Article 80b of the Act refers to the transfer of abandoned barracks to a legal person of public law if this is economically justified. The amendment, which I propose, follows this thinking and extends the range of options to the logical functional land around abandoned barracks, otherwise there would be no access to the facility, and includes other facilities that are abandoned, both guards, warehouses, halls, barns, homes, ambulances and lands for which the legal person will base not only the economic but also the development programme for the use of these facilities. The amendments are supported by the Government and the Home Committee. I also expect the support of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u40	President, thank you so much for your word. I think that this amendment should be adopted by a group of Members with a first-signed Cyril Puck because ownership rights or the establishment of public institutions in the field of culture are not regulated. Thus, it is not governed by the rules of legislation, not specifically in the field of culture, - this thing will now be improved if we adopt amendments and supplements to the law on the realization of public interest - not in the field of education is not regulated by the law on organisation and financing - so education organisations - nor research organisations. Therefore, during this transitional period, such an article as it is here would be some relief at least to the state and local communities which have an interest in resolving this problem. It seems to me that because of the wrong decisions made by the National Assembly in the past in adopting the Law on the Financing of the Communities, certain organisations, or at least mostly, in the field of culture, are not in a position to adopt the law on the implementation of the budget. It seems to me that the transfer, this is the process of regulating the status of these public institutions in the field of culture, reminds me of the efforts to raise the dead. I think that if this thing were to be accepted in order to overcome these things, in a way that would be acceptable to the amendment tabled by the People's Party, the text would be worded to transfer this matter in agreement free of charge. This is said to be the local community on the one hand and the state on the other. Whether to transfer the property from the local community to the country, or vice versa, and it seems to me that what colleague Školč said is justified to some extent, so that the proposers of this amendment would replace the last part of the amendment, i.e. the words "with which this public institution manages" with the words "whom they own"; so they transfer the property to which they are the owners, not with whom such a public institution manages it, and then the legal dictatorship would be satisfied, and the content of this amendment would be such that it would be possible to transfer the institution's rights in the sphere in which the government is responsible for it, and in the sphere in which the municipal council is responsible for it. You know that when transferring the property of the municipal council there must be a two-thirds majority even of the municipal council to vote on such a decree as this transfer would be possible. Thus, it seems to me that the fuses are quite well installed and would make it easier to do so, until new legislation is adopted, this transposition and the cultural institutions, due to the policies of the past in the field of culture, are still half disabled. As far as status is concerned. We know that the municipalities, as explained, are the founders of these public institutions and that the whole capital for the operation of these institutions is provided by the State. As an example, for example, since I am well-known, the Slovenian National Theatre in Maribor - the country gives a billion 700, the municipality gives 2 million to function this theatre, so that the municipality has all the rights to how this money will be distributed there, where it will go, whom it will set and so on. And it seems to me that this is one of the inquality solutions for which the adoption of legislation in the past is also the responsibility of the National Assembly, and that is why all of you, honourable Members and Members, please accept this amendment, with the amendment tabled by the People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u41	Replica, colleague of the school.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u42	Of course, the amendment tabled by the People’s Party does not solve this when public institutions manage assets other than municipal or state property. It also raises the question of whether these congregations, the founders of a public institution, have shared obligations among themselves, for example, including the Maribor theater or some other, where this is not regulated. However, with the adoption of this amendment, one of the three visions that I have made that it is not possible to transfer all the assets under which it is managed in any way forward and backward. I agree with my colleague Moget that there are great difficulties in providing the financial resources or obligations that the founders have towards their founders. But these great problems are mainly related not to the participation of the state, as far as I know it, but to the participation of the municipalities, the successors of the founders. From this point of view, this means taking the case of SNG DramaMaribor, the following: that the country will have to take care of the infrastructure, not only for the programme, but will have to pay ambitious plans for the further renovation of the theatre. From history, I can tell you that these plans count in billions. And that was not the case until now, it was not the country’s fault because it was willing to provide its share of the funds, but was unable to provide its work with the Maribor congregation. With this - let's say in the notes - the "transaction" will happen that Maribor will generously give the theatre with all the buildings of the state and at the next moment demand because it is entirely state-owned that it no longer participates in the construction of the theatre. If that's what we want, then it's worth supporting. I do not think this is right, because in this case it is necessary to do so, not a proper comparison with the Drama in Ljubljana, which is a national theatre, but a correct comparison with the Ljubljana City Theatre. The Ljubljana City Theatre is, as you know, in the premises it requires after denationalisation because they have occupied part of the monastery. At this point this procedure is not completed, of course the outcome cannot be predicted. This transfer cannot really be done. That's, like, the case I was talking about. But if the state finances the complete construction of the Maribor theatre, then the clear requirement of Ljubljana City Hall will be to do so for the city of Ljubljana and so on. That is why I think I could talk to you about other consequences and other cases, but with my colleague Mohet I agree that this is a major problem, but that this needs to be resolved within cultural legislation. [[...]] I agree and regret that the part of the solutions that the National Assembly has brought through the adoption of laws governing the financing of municipalities has not regulated this, but [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] - to complete the sentence - the problems in this area do not stem from this, but from the policy left by the self-government interest community in the field of culture. And she left no record of how these things are being transferred, but she temporarily transferred some of the institutions to the state’s funding and left the others to the congregations. And that is an inheritance, I will say, of those decisions, not of the National Assembly in the last two terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Comrade Sculpture. We have two replicas. First, my colleague Moge, after him, my colleague Petty Officer. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much, President for your word. I would not limit myself to the SNG in Maribor, which is again the subject of treatment in the National Assembly, as was the case at the time in the National Assembly, when Minister Jožef Školč was in culture and when he tried to solve the problem of the status of cultural institutions through the Law on the Financing of Communities and how this project fell in the Constitutional Court, we all know. I don't have fairy tales to help me, my dear fellows. For six years, the status of SNG in Maribor is being resolved. Six years. There are 27 files of material already. And this country will finally have to make some moves and settle these statuses. Not only here, but also in Nova Gorica. With its powers, the government has drawn certain things. And it seems to me that I feel completely disappointed that we, who had a ministry in power, had all the legislation in power, cannot solve anything for six years. But it's our inner thing. Again, I apologize that the LDS is slaughtering among themselves here and trying to arrange some things so that people in one part of Slovenia can live in peace. I wouldn't have anything else, so I'm gonna ask you to back this up. It is also a theatre in Nova Gorica, and it will also be for other public institutions. And I think we will be able to make such legislation in other areas, so that we can make order for once in culture. Dear colleague, Mr. Školč, the cultural tolar with which Sam Bevk and I carried the spine in this National Assembly when you were Minister, I was told that the construction of the SNG in Maribor, the old halls, would begin because it collapsed and the player almost fell to the head and the inspection closed that hall. And there it was said, at those prices, that it was a billion 200. You're the one who put "heagen" on that marriage. And when contracts have been signed and contracts signed, it is likely that one and the other parties will fulfil this contract. And I think that in this amendment right now, it's not just about what you want to take and now stigmatize me with what someone spent money - I'm going to be very short - but it's about all the public institutions in the field of culture, in the field of education, because some municipalities have given up land because some municipalities have given up buildings free of charge and have been able to build themselves up, like the Maribor municipality gave the whole building free of charge to the rectorate that it was built. And I think if we try to block all these activities with such partial solutions in the National Assembly, then we block them, and we say we block these things. I would not, however, have done so and would have left the law on organising research activities, amending and supplementing the law on education and education until there is no law. And then this law that we now have in place on Thursday is the law on the realization of public interest in culture. As long as these things don't work out for you, let's at least leave a niche to the local communities and at least leave a niche to the state to sort these things out according to their capabilities. I would very much like to ask that if the theatre in Maribor is not mentioned again at this amendment, but that the minister saves the national assembly, but that we look at all public institutions in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u45	Good. The list of reported replicas has been extended. They will be given the following word in line: Comrade Drobnic, colleague Pucko and colleague Malovre. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Obviously, this debate shows that the resolution of this area is still taking place in the old concept, the old pattern. In fact, because it's all ours, and then we're taking it back and forth free of charge. Now, when, in which cases it will be unpaid, in which it is not actually, and who is entitled to the unpaid and who is not entitled, we are opening a dilemma here. If someone is a co-founder and another - or I don't know - third partner as co-founder, then everyone gives what they agreed, and this joint asset. And in the context of this, of course, they have the right of establishment as well as the decision-making. In fact, property is very important because it also bears management rights. This is a little more difficult in the law on institutions because the ownership ratios under this capital are not established. And obviously we're going to have to do a lot of other things in this country. Here is where the question arises, in which cases this will be done and in which it will not be done, and then we will have some strange policy of supporting culture or not supporting culture in Slovenia. Thus it is not possible to resolve this in a way that denies property rights. And this amendment, or the whole solution, points to this: denial of property rights, which are in the context of this, is also the administrative one behind this. So I don't think that this kind of resolution is appropriate. But to solve with the word 'comprehensible', of course, we don't arrange anything, because the law on institutions just determines how these things are done, and we would intervene here. On this occasion, however, I would ask the government to express its position and what it will defend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Puck, his colleague Malovre. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, my part of the debate is related to the already basic text of article 80.b, in which the Government proposed the principle of repayment of the alienation, in the first paragraph and in the second paragraph of the exemption from this rule. The amendment tabled by the Group of Members essentially refers to this second paragraph of Article 80.b in terms of discharge, as has already been said. I therefore propose that, as my colleague has already stated before me, that the government, both in relation to this amendment and with regard to the amendment proposed by the two groups of Members, should give its opinion precisely on the grounds that it would be easier to make a decision and thus, in fact, come to a decision that is better than the one proposed in the basic text of the government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u49	Good. I now give the floor to my colleague Malovre, and then we will ask the government if it wishes to give its opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps I would only add so much to Mr Mohet's support, and also to Mr Školč's debate, that perhaps there is a little too much to look at with regard to the management of the post in the previous period, because this amendment and this word "agreed" solves a lot of things in these relations, because not only the minister but not only the mayor, but also the municipal council and the people in the place where they live, that this is a matter of actual agreement. Perhaps I would only suggest that, in the third reading, the government would dictate that this amendment should be amended to the extent that it relates to the part whose payer someone is and would probably go through so much and so much easier. However, there will be a number of problems with this amendment, with which article 80.b and these supplements will be dealt with in a wide variety of matters in the congregation, and in particular as matters of institutional rights are being resolved in the municipalities where the municipalities are now, in terms of division, co-founders, and this will also be easier to resolve in this context.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much, colleague Malovre. Thus we have exhausted the performances of Members and Members. The government wants to give its position to the two amendments tabled? Comrade Petty Officer and colleague Pucka were asking about them. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I would like to take a position on this amendment by the Group of Members. The proposal set out in Article 80b is based on the decision that the law in each area is the one to regulate the establishment of individual public institutions. Thus, a district law must be agreed upon or determined which public institutions will be established by a congregation to be established by the State. This amendment is understood as an intermediate phase until the law on culture has yet to be adopted. It is true that the solution proposed by the amendment can be a trap, because if we really want to solve only two matters that are open at this point, then one would still understand such a decision. However, there is no denying that in this period - I look at this 80.b article in conjunction with Article 17, because it was also so invested - it is not said anywhere that anything and anywhere else will happen in this year, which is available here. I think it is Mr Drobnič's warning that this is a matter of property rights that are once in the hands of the State and, secondly, in the hands of the congregation, that we must not simply simplify the matter here and now agree on how this will go from the congregation to the country or vice versa. However, the government here tends to make matters clear in the field law and to resolve matters in that place. Let me also draw attention to the Constitutional Court's decision when there has been a change in the system of financing public institutions in the field of culture through the law on the implementation of the budget. It was precisely that this was regulated in the law on the implementation of the budget and not in the field legislation that was disputed from the point of view of the Constitutional Court. That is why we advocate that this be regulated by sectoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much for this position. Do you want to complete the above? Please. About the second amendment. Here you go. Then Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The position I would like to make is that of the proposed amendment to Article 10 proposed by the Socialist Party's Group of Members and the New Slovenia Group of Members. In opening, I would like to say that we have also had an extensive discussion at this point on the Committee, so that I will only take a position that does not support this amendment. The reasons why we do not support this amendment are of a legal and economic nature. The proposal for the amendment of the law also applies to all subsidiaries in our view is legally problematic and controversial. For the fundamental legal standard that we pursued in the drafting of the amendment of the law is that the sale of capital investment or other forms of property is decided by the owner. The owner of a subsidiary in an economic corporation is not a state, but is a subsidiary or company which enjoys all corporate and ownership privileges under this Title. We believe that the only option is to make this fact legal when we are talking about so-called holding companies. This means that roof companies are made in principle because they own subsidiaries. At that time, in our view, it is a strong enough legal basis for us to overlook this function of ownership. We have already done so in the Sales Regulation, on the procedures for the sale of state property, and it is already being carried out in particular in the privatisation processes under way under the Slovenian Iron System, since the Slovenian Ironworks are a holding company. So we have a situation where the roof company does not actually carry out any activity, because all activities are carried out in subsidiaries. At that time, in our view, it is legally possible and economically justified and logical that the procedures also apply to the sale of subsidiaries. In different situations, when we talk about normal corporations - let's take the case of the bank - then the management of this corporation is governed by the company law. In our opinion, this novelty would significantly violate the company law. At the same time, it should be noted that such a legal proposal would lead to situations that could not be implemented. In practice, we have, for example, a case where the bank is the owner of an investment company, KB Infond, who deals daily with the sale of assets in its portfolio, and of course the procedures and procedures provided for in this law would completely prevent normal business activity. For these reasons, we do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Now, yes, we'll give you our word in a row, just like you signed up. [[...]] By the way, my fellow schoolboy, I think he raised his hand first, then Comrade Kremjar, if I don't do the wrong to my colleague Mohet who's behind him, and if I see it correctly, my colleague Dr. Bayuk, would you like a word? Yeah, but no, no, in order, because everyone has a replica first, buddy school. [[...]] You too, Dr. Bayuk, will be given an opportunity. First of all, my fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u56	I hope that by what is always related to what has been said, I will not upset anyone again needlessly, but I choose only those cases that have been mentioned; if they were others, I could say the same things to others. With that, I'll say, I also apologize to my colleague Mohet if he thinks there's something personal here - he's not! At this point, I would like to argue with my colleague Malovrek's opinion that it is possible to resolve this by agreement. Allow me to question this from experience, because even all those solutions that have fallen later in the Constitutional Court have not failed as unfavorably as they would have been said at this point, because they have always worked for a full time as was the case in law; every time it was valid for one year and the Constitutional Court has abolished it for the next year to understand each other. That year, however, it was always meant to reach an agreement on how to proceed. And the agreement has always been blocked, and what I want to remind you of here has also been blocked by those two congregations that are now to be rewarded. I won't mention it one way or the other, but it's Gorica. And there's a third. From this point of view, it seems quite disputed to me that, as Parliament, in fact, on behalf of agreeing, we support those who have so far rejected all agreements. In the case of Gorica, I will not talk about the theatre, so that I will not anger anyone again, the black question is, why the Primorska Drama Theatre is yes, and some others that were not listed before are not. I will talk about the headquarters of the museum in Gorica, which was the provincial museum and where the agreement was practically reached and most municipalities were prepared to accept their obligations, and the municipality of Tolmin was prepared to take on its obligations and add money, but it blocked the museum with the help of the municipality of Gorica. So, even where someone was willing to do more for the field of culture, I'll say, this untouchable infrastructure, I said, from what times did it limit it. Therefore, I doubt that this will be a "comprehensible" solution, but it will allow - but now I will be very grave - that those who systematically and constantly pressure to shift most of the burden to the country, so that they can also transfer it under this Article. Which means that the Ministry of Culture will have major problems next year because it will have more obligations to these institutions, but the budget is already adopted anyway. That's what it means. I apologize for thinking in such a clear way, but I am pleased with the explanation and position of the ministry or government, because, nevertheless, it is possible for those who sometimes rely more on the position of the government than those who are polarising themselves can convince them that it is neither the right place nor the right solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Comrade Kremjar, you now have the floor behind you, Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much. For every thing we accept in this House, of course we all see some other possible consequences and possible reasons for such writings, for such proposals. In this case, it is. I think it's nice and right to think that way, at least in my opinion. It is not right, however, that in some way we also banalise each thing in a very specific way: this and this, because we do not write, or should not write, laws for this and this case, for this and this insurance company, for this theatre, for this and that, for this and that, for this or another company. If we're doing this, it's wrong! Of course, as a result, it has an impact on both the second and the third. It's the same in this case. We're talking about all the other things, except we're not talking about what's in this amendment and what's in the explanation. The amendment makes it very clear, but it links itself with the supplementary amendment, which solves the problems that Comrade Drobnic sees, which are, of course, real. I can see the real problems myself. But this agreement, this relationship, it says exactly that nothing is forceful, nothing is nationalized, nothing is like that, but where interest is mutual, it turns out the story is done. I think the amendment was written very well, signed by the first signed Cyril Pucka and the other signatories. I'm sorry to read, but I have to read it because the only way I can say what I want is in here. If the state transfers its founding rights on a public institution to the municipality or vice versa, that I do not read everything - real property is also transferred free of charge." That's the whole point of this story. The essence of the story is what it says in the explanation. That it is not possible, on the one hand or on the other, to transfer only rights, but not to transfer this property. That's what it says here. And the explanation makes it very clear that this is due to the fact that, of course, property goes with these rights. That's the essence of this amendment. And that is the essence of what this amendment wants to achieve. But of course, on legitimate grounds, and that's why the SLS Group tabled an additional amendment, but someone can't now do something -- I'm going to say very harshly -- nationalize and take something from someone. That's not how it works. He can't take it and he can't take it. Therefore, this supplement is very important in the second amendment, "agreed", meaning: where this interest is demonstrated, where the state determines its interest to transfer part of the property to the municipality and vice versa, where the municipality finds this interest. And both have an interest: he that giveth, and he that receiveth. There, however, this interest is expressed not only in the establishment rights but also in the property referred to, in any direction, the matter. And because I think it's right and fair, I'm going to back this up, and no matter who sees it or who really does, I'm going to say something other than what's written here. I think the way it's written is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you, fellow Kremjar. The word is now given to my colleague Mogo, after which he has his word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it is justified that, as a Member who is closer to culture, science and education, I will take the view that we will adopt such laws as will allow for normal functioning in this country. This time, however, the government seems to have looked more at security than at the prosperity of the country. Otherwise, I can't imagine that only in article 80(3) did she say that it is easy to transfer the warehousing which is transferred free of charge to own public law. That is to say, it will be taken care of by the military and by the military, while for culture, education, research and other, they should be sizzling in this hole when the legislation has not yet been approved that would allow these transfers to be made free of charge. And that thing cements. And it seems to me that, with this solution, what the People's Party has proposed is also possible to improve the government to this amendment, which it can have in third reading, so that we should also allow it here during this transitional period until it is accepted. However, this transitional period will not be known for how long, but it is limited here to a period of one year, that this sector-specific legislation is also regulated by ministries that are not very good, regulations and then, in one way or another, this provision, which would be adopted when this specific legislation is regulated, has no weight left. However, in this interim period, it allows cultural, educational, scientific and all other things to be resolved normally through agreements between local communities and countries. However, I think that, for the time being, there are smart people in government and local communities and that ministers and mayors are smart people, and they will not go to do any harm unless it is in the interest of their local environment. I would therefore ask you once again to accept this amendment to the amendment and this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u61	Before I put my word forward, I need to ask the National Assembly to calm down a little bit. We have two more replicas, then we'll go to the vote. Thirteen amendments are in front of us. First, I give the floor to Dr. Bajuk, behind him to my colleague Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, if you'll excuse me, I'd start by saying it's a bit of a messy debate. Obviously, we have amendments that are fundamentally different in nature and it is very difficult to follow now the debate on public institutions, while at the same time implementing the Secretary of State. If this is possible, I would rather see that there is a decision regarding the amendment to the amendment presented by Mr Cyril Pucko and what the Slovenian People's Party's Group has done and then continue with another topic, because they are of a completely different character and very important character. So this is my procedural proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u63	As far as your proposal is concerned, I must find that these are amendments which are tabled all in line with Article 10; we have 13, 11 in the review, 2 separately, and we will discuss them together, but we will vote separately. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u64	Okay, well, if it's not procedurally possible to work rationally, then we'll just go on irrationally. So, I'm warning all my colleagues that now I'm going to talk about a completely different matter than they've been listening to in the last half hour. In fact, it is the implementation of the Secretary of State when he spoke of the amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party and of the New Slovenia. We insist on that. And the government's actual response is to re-tell about the real question ahead of us. Here we are talking about how to privatise, how to dispose of state property. And, of course, in all of this, our transition, in this fog that's been dragging for ten years, we first set up very strange things. Mr. Secretary of State is referring to some normality. Yeah, well, if I lived alone in a normal world, I'd be a little happier, maybe both of them, too. But the fact is that we first created all these different holding companies and acronyms, and such a different character that it is the owner, this is the country, actually lost here and there, and now we refer to the legal reasons that it is impossible to enforce it to the extent that we need it. And all of a sudden, we will be faced with the fact that there will be a supervisory committee that does not actually answer to anyone - in fact, and we have already debated this in this National Assembly, specifically as regards the Ljubljana Bank, because the government has replied to us: "Yes, this is what the Supervisory Board is doing." Who owns it? He owns the state. And Mr State Secretary, once again responds, as did the committee: "Yes, what should I do, in a specific case, with KB Info, who is the PID, who has invested something, and then we cannot get involved, these are different characters." I believe it! But let us save you in a different way, Mr. Secretary of State! Why, though, do we need a law that has only 10 articles on this matter? So let's write 100 of them, and we'll treat them nicely - every single thing. My question, which I have asked then and today in my presentations, from the beginning, is what we will do when Telekom is privatised. But then you didn't. At that time, there is a subsidiary and a supervisory committee, three gentlemen who then claim to be some kind of business secret without even being able to report to the government. This is really happening in our country. And I'll give you another case. Besides, I don't know if that's still the case because I haven't gone to check the stock book in the last month. To Revoz. It says in there that he owns the state and only owns 3% of the shares. In fact, if memory doesn't fool me, it's all about 47, because some 13% is the Ljubljana Bank, which is already owned by the State; but, of course, again in a direct way, and we are dependent on the four gentlemen you have appointed, and you are not prepared to control them as government and as owner, and then some holding company that has cca. 20%, total 47. But it's all the same owner. It's a Slovenian state. Now you are proposing to me here, on the basis of one problem that you may have in various cases like KB Infond - solve it. Solve this problem, Infond. But you have to answer clearly and loudly, how will and when will this be sold When, who will be responsible? But when we get to the chapter on how to violate violations, then there's a lot of silence and we don't even know what we're doing. Mr. Secretary of State! You said you had legal and economic issues. I don't think you're right about legal. I haven't heard any legal arguments yet. I hear you're having some kind of problem. On the other hand, you didn't say anything about economic reasons. So I'd like to hear about it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Since Comrade Trofenik gave up the replica, this could be the last performance, unless the government wants to, no, we still have a report. [[...]] Does the government want to answer the question? No, no, no. Then I give my word to my colleague Petty Officer and Mag. Visionary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u66	I'd like to replicate Mr. Kremjar. See, if we enter into this amendment or the law, that the congregations will be consensual, or that the consensual congregations or states will agree, we have done nothing, because we have to say, under what conditions, how this will be done, because otherwise it means nothing to them. One's gonna be like that, the other's gonna be different, one's gonna want to get paid for it, the other's gonna want to move it in, the other's not. What about the institution's rights, the implementation-like institution, what the state benefits from, what citizens have, what citizens have - in short, we do nothing about it, but you know. Like they say, you'll settle it with a contract. It's empty. It's just a way. But you must tell us how this will be done. In a way. It is therefore necessary to say whether in this law or in another, how, under what conditions, which property - the state goes free and what follows. Because otherwise we're gonna have more messy stuff. I have already pointed out that the basic law governing the operation, namely the general law, the general law - the law on institutions, is "sui generis" for our country, because it comes from the previous system. These key positions of ownership, management and so on do not take into account. And that's why we hunt like this. We don't know what's gonna happen to that property in there. It is not wrong to understand now that I am against any public goods or public services being provided. Everything can be done because in such a way that the state can, it is then said: this property, which is necessary to carry out the activities of a public institution, can be rented free of charge, or I do not know how this property remains, but to say, under what conditions can it be kept inside. Things need to be clear, for one way or another they will do things differently. Listen, some locals or citizens will have it this way, and others will have it that way, depending on how they're going to "get married". So, from the political will of the state, either by power or by emigration or otherwise in the local community. I don't want to be married to such complications in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u67	A colleague of mags. Vizjak and his colleague, Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I will briefly comment on the response of the government representative to the amendment of the two parliamentary groups. And in fact, as far as his interpretation is concerned, the fact that - or the answer is in fact that the matter is somehow formally disputed and that it would also somehow make it impossible for economic companies, state-owned mothers, in the majority ownership of the country, to carry out some kind of business policy. Look, now we're facing this dilemma, or we're going to start separating state property into two parts. That part - State property under A and some indirect state property under B; and that State property under A are subject to the rules in here, but the state property under B is not subject to these rules, but the actual possession of these rules is within the jurisdiction of state-owned companies or indirect groups appointed by the Government and no one else. In short, it has some state property or rules of sale that clearly guides and is also decided by the National Assembly and that is not the case for some. I don't think it's right and it's not allowed to have double criteria for similar issues. Our amendment aims at a transparent, transparent and economical and, finally, a fair sale of state property. Not state property under A, but state property under A and B. That is why I have come to my attention because I am also really interested in the position of the secretariat for legislation or the position of lawyers, whether this provision or this amendment is actually in conflict with the provisions governing the functioning of companies in this area or in conflict with any other regulation and in which points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u69	Two more have been reported. A colleague of Shirtz and a colleague of Kremjar. We'd try to close. We won't make it before the break. [[...]] Please, Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. At the previous reference to the April meeting, the proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture in the first reading, which in fact raises these issues, which some Members of Parliament are today, and in particular the amendment's amendment to article 80b, have already tried to start to a great extent. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the article of the law that we are in today is talking about the principle of the repayment of the alienation. The article of the law that we are going to meet and which actually covers all the matter that is being opened today speaks - I am talking about a roofed cultural law - but it is about the transfer of the institution's rights and obligations. In fact, this article saves this matter, which is being resolved by this law after a faster procedure today. Of course, there remains and there is a question why it is not possible to wait a few months, I doubt that all year long, and to hurry with a solution that, if I replicate my colleague Kremjar, is certainly written in the name of one institution. I am afraid, and in this context, it seems to me that through mobile or ownership transfers, they are dictated in some way, and then there are other questions that are already suggested that touch on the founders who are overtaken. These questions are not so simple. These questions are, in fact, questions that have caused a recent reflection on the work of one minister, who has been told to act centrally. I am afraid that the solutions behind and in view of these proposals are also very centralistic, because they mean that property - well, it can also be a different order - but above all that the ownership of the municipalities is carried into or into the country's own. It should not be forgotten, however, that every transfer also involves invoices, not to mention, of course, the obligations, rights and obligations they have as a result. But I don't want to replicate or even discuss a subject that we're going to meet more deeply in April, hopefully, session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u71	There are three more replicas. Comrade Kremjar, colleague of Moge and colleague mag. Spending. It's 12:59. Will your appearance be in debt, Comrade Kremjar? [[No, no, ……]] Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Short. I've been taught to read what it says in a small school. In college, I was taught to read and read and remember what was written, especially with regard to legislation. I'm sorry, but I really just have to read what it says. All the explanations and all the fears are possible and I respect them, but it writes something other than what we're talking about today. It made it clear: "If the state transfers its founding rights, or vice versa, the real property shall not be transferred in return." And this means absolutely nothing but what it says: if one thing happens to transfer the Founding Rights, it must also give free property - nothing else does it mean. That is why I said that the applicants have written this matter very precisely and well. All that we're talking about is another story; the story, like Shirca's colleague says, is some other law, the story of some other negotiation, this with this amendment - otherwise it gives us some vision - has nothing to do. This amendment speaks only to say again - and I hope that I will never have to again - only to speak of what will happen if the State or the congregation decides to transfer the institution's rights to each other. The only thing that happens is that he has to transfer the property, that's all. And please, let's just read what it says, and make a real decision about these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We've got two more replicas left for us after the break, first of all, a colleague of Moge's, behind him, a mag. They spend, and then, if there are no new replicas, the National Assembly can conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the 13 amendments. Until then, by 2.30 p.m., I'm adjourning the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u74	Your Honor! Your Honor! We will proceed with the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 14th session on 20.3.2002: Franc Čebulj, Maximiljan Lavrinc for the afternoon part of the session, Jožef Jerovšek at 3 p.m. and Janez Podobnik for the afternoon part of the session. Since we're going to be present, I'd like to ask you to come to your seats. We're picking up the presence! There are 35 of us in attendance. I think there's a lot more of us in the hall, so I really need your attention. Please, let's find out who's here! Unfortunately, we were unable to ensure our presence. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we continue to work in 10 minutes, at 2.47 p.m. when we will be able to determine our presence for the third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u75	It's 2:46 p.m., this is the time we set for the third determination of presence in the hall, so I ask you again for the needed peace and to occupy your seats. This is the third time we've detected presence. There are 54 Members and Members present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. In this morning's work, we were in second reading of the draft law amending and supplementing the law on public finances, in the phase of the debate on the 13 amendments to Article 10. In this morning's work, Mr Moge and Mrs Potrate were also notified to the debate on the amendments to Article 10. First, I give my word to Mr. Moget, the replica. You're giving up, thank you very much. Mrs. Potrat also gives up the word. Mr Bajuk, then she would like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat. Here you go, Mr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to ask the same questions to representatives of the government again because I had a little time to calm down in the meantime, as regards the amendments presented by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats and New Slovenia. The answers that we have received so far are under a very broad heading to deal with legal problems and other problems of an economic nature - so far we have not heard definitively about legal ones, but not economic ones at all. That is why I would like the government to answer this question, because this is of crucial importance to us. I'd like to explain this one more time. Look, now we're dealing with creation - it's said, some of us have work to do, and others have other things to do, as you hear. Can we make some order, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u77	Your Honor, I ask you kindly for peace in the Chamber so that the debater may discuss it without delay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u78	Today, we are dealing with the creation of a legislative framework through which the last part of privatisation will be realized, or whether it will take place, as you wish, all that was sometimes owned by society or what is left and what is owned by the state. So this is a very important question that requires the highest responsibility of this National Assembly, because it is transparency and transparency, things that will happen and that can never happen again. I would like to reiterate the fact that once a country sells, it can no longer bring things back. This is a unique opportunity that the Slovenian state has, so it is imperative that we ensure everything we can, that all Slovenian citizens and citizens have a clear picture of what we are doing, and that this will be done in the most just and rational way. What the government is proposing to us in these ten articles is not enough. This amendment, which we have tabled, and also the specific case to which we have referred, is always answered: "Yes, we have some problems with those things which are state-owned and which are managed by pids." Yes, of course, for example, the Maribor Credit Bank is owned by the state. It created one pid, Infond KB, if I am not mistaken, but it manages some of the things that have now come after the last decisions into the so-called privatisation hole. If this starts to privatise and things happen in this area every day, this poses a certain challenge to the legislator to how this matter should be resolved. I believe that's the problem. However, the government cannot refer only to such a case because there are others, such as the privatisation of Telekom, where we demand and through this amendment we are trying to ensure that there is also complete transparency and not that subsidiaries will only be privatised on the basis of some decisions taken by the Supervisory Committee or those members of the supervisory committee appointed by the Government. Why are we concerned?Because the role of supervisory committees, including those owned by state-owned companies, is currently being formed and operated under the company law. Now the law up, the law down, the fact is, it's still state property. And gentlemen who represent the owner's interest should only work on the basis of specific powers, but not to hide behind the law, but say, "There are business secrets here and the owner doesn't." Not that I'm making this up, it was specifically in the response we received from the government when we asked some questions in the opposition about the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. What was the answer? The owners have already gone to the congregation once a year, and then they are the Supervisory Committee. However, the Supervisory Board operates within the framework of the company law and, of course, they are business secrets, and therefore they cannot tell us. They have big problems here, and there's a big gap in our legislation. It is therefore pointless for the government to refer to the company law when it comes to the final possession of this property. We are confident that we must accept this amendment. If we do not accept this amendment today in the National Assembly, we cannot support this law. And we will not support it because we consider this to be irresponsible conduct that will legitimize confusion in this important issue of our society. It is undeniable, though, that there will be major problems sooner or later. I would just like to remind all my colleagues that sooner or later, the citizens of Slovenia will also present an account to all those who will not support this amendment, because sooner or later this will happen. There will be big mistakes and a reference to all of this as part of the law. By means of a law that is intended to be written in such a way that it is imprecise and does not allow for what must be an essential feature of the privatisation of everything in state ownership. Thank you very much. Citizens and citizens will put out an account in the future, and the opposition will be here today for all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The representative of the secretariat, Mrs Ogrinc, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will touch on another issue, not article 80a, but article 80b and the proposed amendment or proposed amendments. This is the question of the upgrade, the addition of an 80.b article with a third paragraph, which would allow or determine when and in what way real property should be transferred free of charge in cases where it relates to the transfer of institution rights in public institutions. With regard to the solution itself, the Secretariat has already identified itself at a meeting of the home working body. However, now that we have also received a proposal for an amendment to Article 17, which makes it clear that the aim of the proposal is to regulate a transitional regime, I think the following. The solution proposed for the update of Article 80.b is, according to our assessment, a systemic dispute since this must be linked to the second paragraph, namely paragraph 1 of this Article, which allows for the real or financial assets of a State or municipality to be transferred free of charge to another person, provided that this is permitted under a specific law. This upgrade in paragraph 3 should be linked to this solution. This means that if this Public Finance Act, which is a system law, incorporates this solution, it would be necessary to take this solution into account whenever the area law solves these issues. This is certainly not the intention of the proposer. We're assessing the matter like this. In view of the fact that this solution offered for Article 80.b, paragraph 3, should, if already, be incorporated into transitional provisions. As set out, it is unusual because the transitional regime is always governed by transitional provisions. Not to be inserted, however, between the material provisions of a solution for which we specify validity only for a short period of time. Thus, integration in 80.b would constitute a non-systemic solution, while it would be possible to upgrade transitional provisions accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u82	I would just like to ask for a long interruption of this debate. In view of the arguments we have just received, it would then be necessary for me, with all due respect, to have Mrs Ogrinchev speak professionally, without further delay, to take this matter into account and to try to sit down with the bill-maker or the ministry. We who have drafted this amendment would prepare an amendment that meets the conditions, and then our amendment could be withdrawn. Unless we agree to confirm this amendment, the government would then prepare its own, which I think was already an agreement with the government of our applicants, to make this the most fair. It is said that we would now accept this at second reading, and you would prepare a system-compliant amendment. I'd like to make a case for this point to stop until we sort things out.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. However, I further understood, Mr. Mogue, that if consistent solutions are prepared for the third hearing, please, Mrs. Ogrinc, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the other amendments proposed under Article 80.b have been repeated. [[...]] Given that other amendments are also proposed under Article 80.b, the article is open and could actually be fully settled in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, are you insisting on a procedural decision to terminate the second reading of this law at this point? We will, of course, vote on this. Do you insist, Mr. Mogue? [[Yeah.]] Thank you very much. The procedural proposal that, at this point, it is said, still in the stage of the debate at the time of the amendments to Article 10, is to suspend the consideration of this item on the agenda. We are voting on this procedural decision. [[A voice from behind.]] I am terminating the vote on the procedural decision to put an end to the debate on the amendments to Article 10 and on Article 10 in full. Such a procedural proposal was made by Mr Moge. We are voting on a procedural decision. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 39 to 8. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the procedural decision has been adopted, so I am putting an end to this item of the agenda and we are proceeding with the next item. The fourth point is not ready yet, so we continue with 5. THE PERIOD OF THE DAY, since the National Assembly has taken a procedural decision. I would like to invite representatives of the Government who are authorised to participate at the 5th item of the agenda to consider the proposal for a bill on payment turnover. They'll be joining us in a minute. So we're going to move on to 5. Period of the day - Third defense proposal for a bill on payment travel. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The representative will be among us at any time and will present to us the opinion of the Government. Your Honor! The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be presented to us by a consultant at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Stanko Strin. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Mr. Strain, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u86	Your Honor! The Law on Payments, which is ahead of us, is the fruit of almost three years [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u87	Please! Your Honor! The government representative presents us with the law. We owe him peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u88	careful coordination and clearance of all, as I would say, affected or Tangled in payment transactions. [[...]] It has not been necessary for such a long time because of the scope or exceptional complexity of this law, but mainly because of a project running parallel to the drafting of the law, this is a project for the transfer of payment services, which is called the reform of payment transport. The law has always been unchanged in all these considerations on its basis, in its concept in fact. If I summarize very briefly, it is simply that, for the first time in this law, we are completing the process of reforming payment transport on the basis of which we are transferring payment traffic to the banking environment. At the same time, this law provides the basis for the closure of the APP and for the transition of the functions performed so far by the APP to other institutions and, last but not least, the law governs the bond ratios in the work regulated so far by the Bond Relations Act, chapter of the current account. The transaction account, which replaces the bond relationship with respect to the management of accounts and the payment of turnover, is regulated by this law in such a way that there is no longer a need to apply the section of the bond law of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, which is also very important, the law provides the basis in the form presented for the organisation of a single treasury account, which also means a higher level of economy in the management of public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Chairman of the committee, Mr. Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In accordance with the procedure, the Committee has carried out a third-reading examination of that draft law and has also tried to partially improve certain provisions of the law. Thus, the amendment to Article 3 was adopted, namely the amendment to the amendment of the Government to this Article, the amendment to Article 8 and the extension of the discussion of the amendment to Articles 70 and 73, mainly on the grounds that the most attention in this regard was paid to the question or solution that the exposures of the Republic of Slovenia's public records and services agency and the administrative units of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments should, as a rule, be determined in each statistical region. In addition, the view was expressed that there was a need for some rationality on these issues from the Government, but also for it to be able to make a choice in the implementation of this rationalisation. It was also suggested that such an analysis or report on the process relating to the deployment of units, which has already been largely carried out, would not contribute to the debate on how good it would be to act, but rather to the debate on what had already been done. Government representatives responded to these concerns. Finally, after a lengthy discussion, the Committee also adopted a proposal for an additional decision, which is proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. At the same time, I propose, on behalf of the committee, that the assembly support [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u91	Cyril, just a minute! Dear Members and honourable Members! Regrettably, the debaters in the Chamber do not have sufficient conditions to do so in peace, so I ask for the needed peace that we owe to the debaters. Thank you very much. Mr. Cyril, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, it doesn't bother me, but I'll end up faster. So I propose that the assembly support the amendments of the government and the amendments of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I give the full floor to Members and Members of Parliament on the proposal. Because no one wants to discuss, I am just concluding and moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.3.2002. I am putting three amendments to Article 3. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment of the government, which is proposed by the committee, under 2 is the amendment of the government and under 3 amendments of the committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment to the amendment under 1. We're voting. The first vote on the amendment was not successful. There were 38 votes in favour and 38 votes in favour. The second time we vote on the amendment to the amendment under 1. We're voting. There's 54 of us in the hall, so I'm asking you to cooperate. The second vote was not successful either, so we are voting for an amendment below 1 for the third time under the Rules of Procedure after a 10-minute recess. Continue at 3 p.m. and 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u94	Your Honor! Your Honor! I very much ask you to take your seats, because this is the third time we will vote on the amendment to the government's amendment to Article 3. We're voting on an amendment to the government's amendment! Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 3. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 3. Let's vote! The first vote was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall, so I'm really asking for your attention. Second time we vote on the amendment. Let's vote! I interrupt the vote because Mr. Rupar's device is not working. Is he okay? It's working. We will repeat the second vote because of the opposition during the vote. May I have your attention, please? Let's vote next time! There are 55 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment of the committee under 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 8, which is linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 74. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will also decide on the amendment of the same proposer under order number 1 to Article 74. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 12. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 37. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Government's amendment to Article 41. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 68. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 70, with a note that it is linked to the amendment of the Committee to Article 73. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. This amendment to the Committee is a result of the Social Democratic Party's proposal to delete the word "right" and not both words, "right" and "statistical". This means that these two institutions, which have been set up as the focus of the paying agency, would somehow establish or have their units or branches in all statistical regions. The aim was to provide the State with an appropriate network of these branches or expositions in order to bring these services closer or to bring them as close as possible to all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Of course, as a rule, in each statistical region, the agency or the one implementing the organizational reform pictured this as "rightly", almost half and wants me to find out that it is practical to shut down these branches or exposures in almost half of the statistical regions. I believe that this is wrong and that is why we have proposed to the committee that the word "rightly" be deleted and that there remains a diction that these exposures or branches should be organised in each statistical region. Regrettably, on the basis of the debate, a proposal was made to delete the word'statistical' and the text is now left to organise these branches or expositions in each region. I'm really curious right now, so I'd like to ask you what that means. We are a witness, even yesterday, it has been made clear in the diary that we are even in some possibility that Slovenia will be one region, according to the distribution according to the requirements of the European Community. Does this mean that there will be no more exhibitions? What regions did the proposer have here, this is the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, in mind, because this standard is then completely out of date and without connection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Government representative, please. There have been many words about this issue, so very briefly. At least the Government understands the adoption of the amendment proposed by the Committee on the Economy by requiring the Public Payments Administration and the Records and Services Agency units to organise, in accordance with the analyses already prepared and adopted by the Government and the project of this organisation, such that the IAPES and IJP units will be evenly distributed throughout the territory of the whole of Slovenia. This is said to mean that all major regional centres in the Republic of Slovenia would have some of this institution. Such a solution is imposed primarily for the purpose of ensuring that the entire Republic is covered by the ICPES and UJP services on the one hand and, on the other hand, to ensure the employment of the current APP workers who are distributed throughout the territory. The dictatorship adopted on the Committee would mean, at least after the Government has understood that these units are established regionally throughout the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia, it is said to be even.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u98	Now we're back to square one. The distinguished representative of the government would ask what it means, according to him, that the IAPES and IJP units or, as already called, the abbreviations will be evenly distributed across the regions of Slovenia. What does that mean? What regions? Where, how? Also the "in larger regional centres" dictatorship - what are these, larger regional centres? Is it, for example, in the case of Southeastern Slovenia this only New City or is it Novo mesto and Krško, is it Kočevje? I don't know, that's why I'm asking. Does not his interpretation here prejudge an arrangement that is not yet in place? From this title, an amendment was proposed, such as that matters should be organised in each statistical region, which is clearly clear what this means. However, if they are normally organised in each statistical region, it is not clear what this means. And if they're organized in every region, we don't even know what that means. That's why I think this debate is so, so little, and this amendment, then all of a sudden one dead or something that's read well, and no one knows what it means.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to help myself in this clarification. I believe that it is best for the National Assembly to reject the amendment of the Committee, thereby supporting the Government's text and that the possibility of payment reform taking place in line with the programme is that it will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Strain also spoke, if I saw it correctly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u102	On the basis of Mr Puck's proposal, I think that for the government, the original text, without the amendment of the committee, is the optimal solution and, of course, we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you. I didn't mean to answer that, but well, I'm going to use that as a replica, all at the same time, and I'm going to try to be even shorter than 3 minutes. I support such an amendment. I don't agree that we'd be working on a program that someone just prepared. I don't think that's the program at all. Unfortunately, every month we find that we cannot control this work, that we cannot control this work, that we cannot control this part of the payment traffic, that it has already cost us everything I don't know how many million dollars. On the other hand, every month we find that we need to establish one new agency to identify the segment in this part of the payment transaction. This is said to be no programme, because if we had it, we would know exactly what we need and what information we need to capture. First of all, we can't afford PPIZ, then we can't cover data for health insurance, we can't pay for these funds, because it's easy for such a system and for such part of the payment transaction as we have now, we just can't do that in such supervision. And this is not a program and it would be the same under the government programme, or whoever prepares such a programme, we can't do it, that is to say, because this program is not easy. In order to avoid this, I also support these amendments, while at the same time putting the Government's representatives on the soul to do something about this part of payment for God's sake, so that they can at least have a review of what is going on, who is committed to certain payments and so on. If that is not the case, do not come next month with the proposal that we should set up a new agency, a new company that will oversee another segment. But if that doesn't work, then tell him you broke it, and we'll set up an agency. This will probably be the best solution, because the equipment is, unless you've already broken it down, the whole infrastructure is programmed. Things have been arranged, and now we don't have it. I'm just waiting for what we're going to figure out next month, which agency we're going to set up so that the scale of control over payment traffic can be feasible. That's all we're waiting for, and I won't be surprised if we get a request like that very soon, so I support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 70. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 15 to 30. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Committee's related amendment to Article 73. Since both of them are connected, there is no need to vote on the amendment to Article 73 because it is irrelevant because the amendment of the Committee to Article 70 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to Article 71. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment under order number 2 to 74, of which the Government is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote was not successful for the first time. There's enough of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention. We decide on the amendment under Article 2 to 74. We'll vote next time. The vote was unsuccessful. There's 55 of us in the hall. After a 10-minute recess, we will vote for the third time on the amendment under Article 2 to 74. We'll resume at 3 p.m. and 48 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u106	Please join us, because in a few moments we will have a third vote on the amendment under order number 2 to 74. The amendment is proposed by the government. For the third time, we will vote on the amendment of the government to Article 74. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 79. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 36 votes against no one. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 85. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the last amendment, this is the amendment of the government to Article 88. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore going to vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. With regard to this law, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has tabled a proposal for an additional decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit, within 30 days, a report on the implementation of payment traffic, focusing on the functionality and costs of payment service users." Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on an additional decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 40 votes against one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Government and the secretariat very much for their cooperation. We're moving to six. Dot of the Daily Order - Another defends the bill on the Bank of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? State Secretary, Ministry of Finance Mag. Darko Tolar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u107	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decided, in its first consideration of the Bank of Slovenia proposal, that the proposal for a law was a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading. The text of the draft law for second reading is thus prepared in accordance with the position adopted by the National Assembly in the first reading and the opinions obtained by the European Commission. According to the adopted position of the National Assembly on the sharing of surplus income over Banka Slovenije's expenditure, the bill provides for the division of 75 per cent of the surplus into the general reserves of Banka Slovenije and 25 per cent into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. There is also a possibility of different distribution in the event that the general reserves of Banka Slovenije are very low or sufficiently high. In these cases, the Bank of Slovenia and the Minister responsible for Finance may agree on a different division. We believe that such arrangements are necessary because, in the case of extremely low general reserves of the Bank of Slovenia, it would be necessary to ensure the effective management of monetary policy, or after the entry into the Economic and Monetary Union of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to carry out tasks under the European System of Central Banks in order to allocate a larger part or the entire surplus of the Bank of Slovenia to the general reserves. And vice versa. In case of extremely high general reserves of Banka Slovenije, their automatic increase would no longer be necessary to such a large extent. The draft law, in accordance with the adopted position of the National Assembly on the confirmation of the independent external auditor of the Bank of Slovenia by the National Assembly, provides that the accounts of the Bank of Slovenia shall be audited by an independent international auditor, appointed by the competent committee of the National Assembly for a period of three years. On the question of the constitutionality of the bill, which was raised at the first reading of the bill proposal, in particular in connection with Article 152 of the Constitution, which defines the independence of the Bank of Slovenia and the responsibility of the National Assembly, we asked the Ministry for an opinion from the Constitutional Commission. The Constitutional Commission considers that the proposed addition to Articles 3 and 8 of the Constitution, which provide for the transfer of part of the exercise of sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia to international organisations of a supra-national nature and the application of legal acts and decisions of such organisations, covers the envisaged position of the Bank of Slovenia after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia. As regards the responsibilities of Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly, this is implemented through the provision on the reporting of Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly and by the designation and resolution of the authorities of the Bank of Slovenia, and therefore there is no need to amend Article 152 of the Constitution. In the light of the comments made in the first debate on the proposal for a Bank of Slovenia law on the non-transparent nature of the law, the current proposal clearly distinguishes the three stages covered by the bill. This is the first phase until the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union. Second phase from entry to entry into the Economic and Monetary Union and the third phase, after entering the Economic and Monetary Union. To this end, specific chapters have been drawn up in the draft law for the second and third stages. Most of the innovation is precisely the last, third phase, when the Bank of Slovenia, as an integral part of the European system of central banks with all rights and obligations, will lose its independence and independence in the management of monetary policy and will also have to meet some other requirements. Until now, these changes radically amend the draft law contained in the first reading by including new articles or renumbering old ones. However, we have clearly and uniformly defined the position of the Bank of Slovenia in relation to the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank and the related operation and, in particular, the independence of the Bank of Slovenia at individual stages. The draft law also takes into account the comments made by the secretariat on the legislation and legal matters referred to in the first reading, some of which would be the most important. The draft law thus regulates the procedures for the nomination or appointment of the Governor, the Vice-Governor and members of the Board of the Bank, and in the transitional provisions amends the provision governing the procedure for the transition of the organs of the Bank of Slovenia designated under the law in force so far. In this respect, the draft law provides that members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, which fulfils the conditions for members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, shall continue their term of office under the new law until the end of their term of office, while members who do not fulfil the conditions under the new law shall expire after the appointment of the new members or the appointment of new members. In addition to the above-mentioned amendments to the law, which were made on the basis of the positions adopted by the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also drawn up several amendments to the bill, some of which would have been mentioned only by some. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is thus proposing an amendment to the new Article 15a, which regulates the monetary market and will enable the organisation and supervision of the monetary market and thereby enable the Bank of Slovenia to implement monetary policy and foreign exchange exchange rate policy. The proposed amendment to Article 16 governing the operations of the Bank of Slovenia on the open market further regulates that the Bank of Slovenia shall keep a register for securities issued by the Bank of Slovenia. The proposed amendment eliminates non-compliance with the non-materialised securities law, under which the Bank of Slovenia is not obliged to issue its securities in a non-materialised form, but, if issued in this form, is not envisaged as an exception to the issue in the clearing company. The amendment to Article 38 extends the possibility of early resolution of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia even when the prescribed procedure establishes that he is responsible for more serious infringements of his duties, which gives rise to serious doubts as to his suitability to perform this function. We have included these amendments on a proposal from the European Commission, which means alignment with the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank. However, the last substantive amendment proposes deleting the 50th article of the draft law, which deals with the integration of transactions with the International Monetary Fund and the costs of coin-cashing into the division of Banka Slovenije’s surplus. The deletion of Article 50 is necessary in order to align those two items with the Public Finance Act, which prohibits the mutual settlement or redemption of the revenue and expenditure of the budget. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the text submitted for second reading is suitable for consideration and for its completion in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent working body, considered that proposal for a second reading law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the fact that certain talks have been held between the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly and the Bank of Slovenia in the meantime, the Committee's discussion has been carried out in accordance with the opinion of the Secretariat under the individual articles. At the same time, the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Bank of Slovenia, who participated in the work of the committee, provided certain explanations and answers to individual questions from members of the Committee. Among other things, with regard to the addition of Article 12, paragraph 7, and the concerns about possible non-compliance with this provision, Article 2 of the legislative proposal - the independence of the Bank of Slovenia - it has been clarified that in the case of payment operations or as a fiscal agent, the central bank acts as a business bank, which is not contrary to its functions as a central bank, but at the same time does not concern the dependence of the Bank of Slovenia, either on the part of the government or other state authorities. On the basis of the comments submitted by the secretariat, the Committee drafted its amendments to Articles 13, 32, 41, 52, 58, 74, 75 and 78 and, at the same time, supported the amendments of the Government by 12 for the new Articles 15, 16, 38, 50 and 58 of the Act. However, the Committee did not support or adopt the proposal for an amendment to delete Article 37, paragraph 2, proposed by the Commission of the State Economic Council. In the context of the debate, the representative of the Bank of Slovenia explained that there had been considerable debates and consultations on the issue raised, in particular due to the apparent divergent positions of the European Central Bank and the European Commission. While the European Central Bank is talking about a conflict of interest, the European Commission has advocated the professionality of the function in the negotiations, which is also the chosen solution to the legislative proposal before you. I propose that the National Assembly support the amendments of the government and the amendments proposed by the home labour body to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. For the 37th, against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.3.2002. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 12 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. We've just been done. Now 10 fewer Members and Members have voted. May I have your attention, please? We have a seven-page review of the amendments. There's 53 of us in the hall. The Rules of Procedure impose on us the duty to vote in full on each amendment and on the article. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment of the government to Article 12. We're voting. Since the second time the vote has not been successful, I hereby suspend the work for 10 minutes according to the Members of Parliament. At 4:17 p.m., we will vote on the government's amendment for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u111	I very much ask you to join us, because this is the third time we will be voting on the government's amendment to Article 12. This is the third time we have voted on the government's amendment to Article 12. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 38 votes against one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 1]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The first vote on the Article was not fully successful again. There's enough of us in the hall. I'm asking you to cooperate. Secondly, we vote on the whole article. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 13 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 45 votes against one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Government's amendment for a new 15th Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the new article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the Government's amendment to Article 16 and on the Article as a whole. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 32 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 38 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The vote on the article was not fully successful in the first vote. Secondly, we vote on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 1. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 41 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Again, we were not successful in the first vote. May I have your attention, please? I repeat that the Rules of Procedure lay down our obligation to vote on the amendments and the articles as a whole in the context of the second reading. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 41. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. For the 40th, against no one. (The vote was 40. )(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 50 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Again, we did not succeed in the vote. All I can do is ask your attention. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 50. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes against one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 52 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 58 and the amendment under number 1, which is the amendment of the committee, and under number 2, the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to decision-making, first of all to amendment under order number one. We're voting. Again, we did not make a successful first vote. Second time we vote on amendment number one. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 43 votes against one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. The second time we will vote on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 40 votes against one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 74 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote is 39 to 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 75 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article, with a note that it is linked to the amendment of the Committee to Article 78. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the Committee's substantive and final amendment to Article 78. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the decision on the remaining articles. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the remaining articles are adopted We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I am also putting forward the next proposal for a decision in the debate. The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does anyone wish to discuss the proposal for a decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. For the first time, we have not voted successfully on the proposal for a decision, so I would like to ask your attention again. Secondly, we vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 42 against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and the secretariat very much for their cooperation. We're moving to seven. Period of the day - the first defense proposal for a law on space management. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representatives of the government among us. Does the government want a word? Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I can tell you that today is a big day for the Ministry of Environment and Space. These two laws, paragraphs 7 and 8 of the agenda you have before you, have been in existence for more than ten years. The old 1984 legislation, which was based on a system of social planning, is still in force at this point; this system has already been abolished by constitutional changes at the time of independence, and yet, at least as far as spatial instruments are concerned, it has remained on this basis, which in fact no longer exists. That is why we have, in fact, been living in a kind of transitional period for the last ten years and more. There were many versions of the new law, even when I was a minister myself, now, this good year, there were several variations. In a very broad debate with the experts and individual stakeholders, there is now a text before you that I think is good and that, in line with the guidelines from the public hearing that was here in Parliament and later with the guidance from the home committee, we will improve it. The Space Regulation Act is trying or, in our opinion, clearly delimits the competences in the area of land regulation between the State and the municipalities. It introduces, for the first time, the regional level of spatial planning, shortens the procedure for the adoption of spatial acts, introduces a new instrument in the preparation of spatial acts, namely a spatial conference. The law sets out more clearly the role and competence of the co-consentors in the preparation and adoption of a spatial act which lays down their conditions for the preparation of an act, and is intended to be reinstated before the drafting of the act, not only in the meantime. The law therefore provides for a reduced procedure for the preparation of a spatial act, which has already been carried out in the same way as before. In addition, the law has a special section on reduced procedures in the event of minor changes. You probably all, especially the mayors, know how long the procedure for adopting spatial acts has been. The law also provides for greater flexibility of spatial acts. It provides for the possibility of a so-called urban contract that can be agreed by the State or the municipality and the investor. The novelty of the law is spatial rules which are supposed to be a collection of general rules for the regulation of space, such as urban standards and regulations, so that a series of new knowledge, new technical criteria, can be laid down by way of a set of spatial rules. An important novelty of the law is also the location information which, according to its content, confirmed by the competent administrative authority on the permissible use of space and the conditions of access to space as provided for in the spatial act. This location should serve investors so that they can know more transparently what they are waiting for at a specific location when preparing for an investment or deciding on a possible investment. At the time of the presentation of the law, it points out that the current system of equipping buildings is being upgraded, with the equipment consistently linked to the conditions laid down in the municipal spatial acts. The equipment no longer rests on building grounds, but on land in the settlement area. An important novelty in the law is also the possibility of private property on public infrastructure and the fact that the municipality can transfer the implementation and financing of urban equipment to private law. Of course, the 1984 law did not allow this to happen. The law introduces a number of instruments for active land policy. These are so-called spatial measures. Here is the preliminary right of the congregation on land and other properties, in settlement areas, which is a novelty. This is where the plots are projected to be dissected. This provides for an instrument called the renovation of the area. This provides for an instrument of municipal policy called a partial permit and so on. As basic providers of spatial planning, the possible instruments of land policy are largely lacking in the regulation of space so far or at this point. This law is supposed to replace this void. In addition, the law introduces a system of spatial data databases in order to obtain in one place important spatial data for planning and allowing interventions into space. Last but not least, the law provides for the establishment of a special professional chamber or chamber for architecture and space, which is today part of the Engineering Chamber. I can say that in the last months of the preparation of this law, the most controversial has come to this very subject. I think that the bill provides for a good compromise, but it is true that individual debaters have tried, as Professor Marusic of Gorica said wickedly, to make the law on space managers out of the law on space regulation. I think that the text before you, of course, represents a compromise and represents an appropriate form of organising space planners. Finally, I can also say that I thank the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment and the Sectional Services in the National Assembly, because we have indeed been able to carry out a very quality public hearing here, in the premises of Parliament, and have received many useful comments and instructions. I can say in advance that we fully agree with all the points of view proposed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, except in some detail where there seems to be a mistake in writing the minutes. But he'll probably say more about that to the chairman of the committee. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. The President, Mr. Andrey Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At its meeting on 10 January and at its meeting on 6.3.2002, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment considered a proposal for a law on the regulation of premises submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At first, we became acquainted with the purposes of the law. The proposaler was very broad-minded here, and he gave us a very detailed explanation of this law. At the first reading, we adopted a decision, given the large number of interested people who want to discuss this law, we proposed a public presentation of the opinions. This presentation was carried out on 6 February. As Mr Minister has already said, we can be pleased that we have heard a lot of good comments and also praise for the drafting of the law, so that, after examining these views, the proposer can complement the law in a qualitative manner for the second reading. At the 23rd session, we then discussed the law with all these opinions and adopted some conclusions. The first was the finding that the law was suitable for the preparation of a second-reading law. We also proposed some positions that I will take very briefly and you have written them down on both sides. I would only draw attention to some of them to verify the specific definitions of content so that the law takes as much into account the professional terms and consistency of their implementation as possible throughout the text of the law. A greater weight should be given to directing the movements of buildings in terms of revitalisation of these lands. Nomotechnically, it is also necessary to purify the law itself so that it is truly acceptable to all. In particular, we have highlighted the notion of public and private interest and, of course, the management of active land policy in municipalities to check the possibility of setting up a State Buildings Fund as a financial institution, which would have an opportunity to intervene in favour of municipalities by means of its resources, as provided for in Article 11 of the bill. We have further noted that all spatial acts and their components need to be dealt with in detail in the joint indication of spatial acts. Then there were a number of other things. I'd like to highlight a few more of those. In particular, to find solutions, i.e. how to obtain professional arrangements for individual spatial arrangements provided for by spatial acts, and to distinguish more clearly how to obtain these solutions through public competition and other forms of obtaining alternative solutions. The proposal for a law should also determine when, as a rule, a public tender is mandatory. Undoubtedly, it should be clarified whether the drafter of the spatial act is obliged to take into account the comments and proposals made in the public debate, as referred to in Articles 30 and 31. It is also necessary to verify the appropriateness of a 30-day period for the issue of consent in cases where, due to the technology for the issue of consent, the laws provide for longer periods or the possibility of shortening those deadlines in the relevant laws or the minimum deadlines for obtaining the conditions and guidance of the competent authority. We also cautioned that the possibility of making a complaint by the drafter of the spatial act to a negative opinion, or the condition laid down in Article 32 of the Act, should be checked. We've also given a lot of attention to spatial rules. These should be adopted in the form of instructions and guidelines. The role of the local community in the preparation of the spatial rules and guidelines referred to in Article 40 should also be defined. It should also check the proposed choice of alternative solutions decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in view of the legal requirement to discuss this in advance by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and also specify the decommissioning of the spatial plan in the municipality or in the municipalities. While the Committee supports the proposed regional level of spatial planning, the proposaler should verify the appropriateness of the provision in relation to the current constitutional definition, namely Articles 50 to 59. It is also necessary to define in more detail the content of the spatial plan of the municipality and to identify the urban and landscape design as an integral part of the municipal spatial plan. It is necessary to define the content and purpose of the landscape design as an integral part of the municipality's spatial plan, as well as its role in determining the area protection as defined for urban design, as provided for in Article 64. The possibility of shortening the deadlines for the consideration of initiatives for amending and supplementing the municipal spatial plan, Section 72 of the Act, should also be checked. The other thing is, I don't read all of them. Finally, we came to the conclusion that the government would further examine the proposals from the public presentation of opinions - these were huge. I am convinced that the Government, as a bill-maker, will also be able to compile and prepare a number of things from this public debate for the second reading and that the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia will be taken into account, as well as the comments and opinions of the Secretariat on the legislation and legal affairs of our National Assembly. In general, we believe that the law is suitable for first reading and we hope, as has already been said in the introduction, that we will get a law that will be welcomed by many of our people, because it will simplify procedures for planning and regulating the premises in many ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Jože Tanko first spoke on behalf of the Group of Members, who will present the opinion of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Here you go. Then Mr. Weber, then Mr. Sok. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you for your word and a nice hello to everyone. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we support the government's decision to modernise existing space legislation, which will soon celebrate its 20th anniversary. Major social changes have long required an amendment to the 1984 legislation, both terminologically and substantively, since the existing law in some areas is totally out of line with new knowledge, new situations and new division of powers, particularly after the successful implementation of local self-government. Almost at the same time as the proposed laws on the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings, two other very important documents were put into the procedure, I believe. These are an assessment of the situation and gravity in the area and the policy of regulating the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which brings a number of important knowledge and findings of trends or trends in our area and which have probably served as a basis for some solutions to the proposal. These documents are very visual and briefly present a large dilemma faced by users, planners and space managers. Given that the findings far exceed the scope of both spatial laws put forward, I think it would make sense to present both of them more precisely. However, both documents to our surprise, despite the numerous shortcomings identified so far in the planning and implementation of policies for balanced and co-natural development and the considerable weight to draw up both laws, have not been completely ignored and have not been addressed by the parent body of the national assembly and have not been publicly presented. However, I believe that some of the problems that have been pointed out for a long time should also be highlighted in particular. Above all, I would like to point out that it is obvious and very excessive will to intervene into space, that there is a change in the use of space due to the abandonment of agricultural production and, as a result, the cultivation of agricultural areas, that is to say, the forest is expanding and the problems that the forest is causing are increasing. It is estimated that a major change, particularly in the number of agricultural holdings, will have an enormous impact on rural structures and will further accelerate the decline and cultivation of cultural landscapes. It is clear that there is a marked process of emigration from border areas and less developed areas, as it is, as a rule, difficult and therefore economically unsustainable agricultural production, and there is also almost no mention of a valuable economic activity in these areas that would keep the inhabitants. The role of rural areas is also changing through the intrusion of urban lifestyles and the abandonment of agriculture. There is a concentration of the population, jobs and other important goods at only a few 10 locations, stagnate or even calm down small industrial centres that have largely kept the inhabited and preserved landscape. The vacant countryside becomes interesting only as a location for storage and disposal of large quantities of various municipal, dangerous and toxic wastes and as a reservoir of drinking water. Cities are becoming an ever-increasing consumer of quality space for economic, cultural, sports, housing and other needs, while in rural areas more and more buildings and business areas remain empty and there is an enormous imbalance between urban and rural needs and supply, but with different omens. For example. The chronic lack of housing in cities creates a lot of empty, deserted and decaying residential houses in the countryside. Urban settlements are rapidly increasing, which over-absorbing most rural potential, and they also have an unfavourable effect on urban areas. We have an inadequate transport policy that only increases these differences. And we could list it. Most of these findings are not covered by the bill that we are considering today, so we ask the government's representatives what objectives they have pursued in drafting the law or how it is possible that they do not take their own knowledge into account. Analysing the findings of both documents, asking questions and seeking answers to them and defining the objectives are key steps that the proposer should take into account in the drafting of the bill.It is only in this way that the proposer could provide solutions to ensure a balanced, co-ordinated development of Slovenia, which would encourage rural restructuring and preservation of the cultural landscape and stop adverse trends in the use of space. This task has not been performed by the proposer. Members of the Social Democratic Party have already drawn attention to some of the shortcomings of the bill on the home committee. Some views are covered or taken into account, and some solutions that the applicant has not adequately or clearly stated in the law would still be noted. The solutions allow for too much freedom of executive power, since the government, with the many sub-legislative acts envisaged by the law, can, in particular, guide spatially and independently on the basis of current needs, leaving the economic and, consequently, the rest of the development. The capital is a driver of development, but with the proposed solutions it has gained additional strength and a significantly greater role than it has played so far, in particular in equipping the land and in drawing up the local plans, which means that the loose provisions of the law will be significantly more subject to the influence and power of capital, will be significantly more exposed or threatened by other interests, and this will in the long term undermine the balance between public and private interest in favour of the private and to the protection of the natural and cultural heritage and the environment in general. If the interest of capital, always seeking the quickest and the cheapest solutions, is uncritically and too often neglected, it will certainly not be possible to achieve not only the objectives of space regulation but also the principles and objectives of sustainable, co-natural and equitable development. The proposed abolition of Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act also allows capital in particular to circumvent the general interest and interest in money by using certain conditionalities that I have already listed and future sub-legislative acts. The repeal of this Article, according to Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act, is not intended for rural development, as it appears at first sight, but mainly for city centres and locations along the highway cross, which will take over all the benefits of development in the future. In the rest of the area, however, empty housing and economic facilities will remain, so I believe that the abolition of this article is not sufficiently justified, has been hasty and is also reckless.This will further accelerate negative trends that suggest the uneven development of Slovenia. On the contrary, the objectives of regulating the premises as well as the applicant's wish. In my view, the allocation of decision-making powers, in particular by not sufficiently defined delimitation between the State and local self-government, allows the Government to implement interventions to areas for which it is not possible to obtain agreement at local level or which the municipality does not wish to carry out. For example, sites may be prepared for landfills of hazardous and harmful substances or nuclear and other wastes. Too much emphasis has also been placed on revitalisation and recycling of degraded abandoned areas for development purposes, and too much emphasis has been placed on opening new areas. This should be a very important objective of directing migration and development, as we have double damage. On the one hand, the abandoned residential and economic facilities and areas that are attached to the relevant municipal infrastructure are not exploited and, on the other hand, we are completely uncritically destroying new areas. For a unit of the facility we need two or more units of surface and related municipal infrastructure. I think it would also make sense to consider capturing the large profits generated by landowners just because the spatial act turns their land from uninhabitable to wally. This alone increases the value of land by at least 10 times and would make sense for the financial effects of such changes to be adequately distributed. We also assess that the law should be supplemented with terminology. In our view, the established professional concepts, such as the regulatory area of the settlement and the building land, must be maintained. The proposer should also clarify more precisely the concepts such as regional design, composition, renovation, intended use of space, regulatory plans and possibly introduce the concept of spatial structural order. The use of new terms for old and undefined content does not mean qualitative progress, only creates additional uncertainties and dilemmas. Nor does the law take sufficient account in our view of environmental protection, in particular the lack of emphasis on the protection of habitats, the preservation and maintenance of natural resources. This environment must not be regulated solely as a resource, as a natural resource for human benefits and needs. Under the law, the principles of subsidiarity and reciprocity are somehow neglected and this part can only work if sufficient political and administrative power is transferred to the regional and local levels. According to the provisions of the European Charter on Local Self-Government and the draft European Charter on Local Self-Government, local and regional authorities are particularly responsible for spatial and development policy. Strengthening the local and regional administrative structure is crucial to achieving sustainable and balanced regional development. One of the principles of sustainable planning policy is more regionally coherent and also polycentric development. The law also somehow prevents issues of settlement and city and somesty. Few articles refer to these questions. Members of the Social Democratic Party, as I mentioned earlier, support the Government's efforts to modernise legislation, but we believe that the Government should also provide for measures and incentives that will prioritise development in areas where untapped capacities and untapped potentials already exist, namely abandoned and untapped walled areas and facilities, which would at least partially prevent unnecessary and excessive pressure on quality agricultural areas, and provide for effective measures and incentives for the processing of agricultural areas, as agricultural areas are often abandoned for thinking and pressure to change the use of space. We also expect that the Government will seriously and thoroughly examine the comments from the public hearing and from the debate on the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment and will, on the basis of the conclusions and views adopted, prepare even more comprehensive solutions for the next hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! The proposed law on space regulation brings many new developments and solutions, which could certainly be compared with solutions in the European Union countries. These will, in many ways, improve the efficiency of space management. Of course, they bring a lot of news, difficult-to-expected instruments of space regulation to enable the State or the municipality to move faster and more effectively to ensure public interest and to allow private investors a faster, cheaper and safer way of doing it. The proposal also provides for a ban on land and land trafficking in order to prevent speculation from drawing up national and municipal local plans or from expanding settlement areas. It also allows for a preliminary right throughout the entire settlement area of the municipality, introduces a broad possibility of depriving and restricting property rights and a service for public benefit. A positive is also the envisaged comassation which will allow for the resolution of today's extremely complex ownership relations. All of these are sort of the characteristics of the law that actually wants to enforce, but we estimate that there are many dangers to all these good directions. We see this in particular because many important instruments for the development of space are already embedded in certain laws that are already in force, and therefore we believe that we should try and present the entire regulatory system further with an impact on space, including both the tax system and a host of other sectoral laws, which are likely to be contrary to the law on the regulation of space at the time of the entry into force of this law. In order to justify these threats, we would like to present two areas in particular. One relates to the jurisdiction of the congregations and the other refers to the decomposition of the surfaces. We find that it is somehow pointless for the municipalities to be held accountable for the development of space and, on the other hand, that it is impossible for them to influence development at all stages of planning. After the proposed law on the regulation of the premises, the municipality is unlikely to have any feedback on what is happening in its premises and why, since it will not call on the administrative unit’s procedures, even if the municipality initiates them, it will be too late. This reinforces the fact that the law, with the aim of expediting procedures, removes the location documentation and the work to be done in the location process, somehow trusts the project manufacturer and the administrative unit. The weaknesses of this solution are that the congregation will not be informed of what is planned in its area. Another important area that we want to draw attention to is real estate decommissioning. The Space Regulation Act provides that real estate may be decommissioned in order to carry out the construction purpose of the site plan under the comassation procedure. The bill also gives a tax ruling on cases where the public benefit is deemed to have been demonstrated and that the property right to immovable property may be withdrawn. These cases are listed and are also very meaningful, even in our opinion. These are facilities intended for public use or facilities for the conduct of economic public services. Then it is for the protection of the state, state reserves, the security of citizens, their property and the protection facilities against natural and other disasters. The facilities for the implementation of non-economic public services in the field of health, education, education, culture, science and research and social protection and facilities for social and non-profit housing are, in our view, those facilities which are truly necessary to be listed in this law and for which it is possible to carry out real estate decommissioning procedures. We do not see any inconsistencies with the Constitution here, but we do see a real urgency and a really legal need to make this very clear. However, the constitutionally contested solution seems to us to be used as an instrument of decommissioning. Indeed, it is also stated in the law that this decommissioning instrument can be used to carry out any construction purpose under the site plan in the course of the comassation process. Therefore, the expression of any construction purpose certainly does not belong to that category which would be justified in carrying out the real estate decommissioning procedure. That is why we are particularly reminding and suggesting that this is indeed an attempt to be written into law in the following cases. The decommissioning process itself is also new, and even after it is foreseen, it is certainly envisaged in this direction in order to speed up the procedures. In fact, the difference compared to the present procedure is that the present decommissioning procedure has been brought through the court in an unfair proceeding, and today we are talking about a decision on decommissioning in an administrative procedure. At the first stage, this is an administrative unit, and at the second stage, the competent Ministry of Space. This, of course, also interferes with the legal safety of teenagers. This is a very sensitive area, and we therefore point out that the proposaler is also trying to pay even more attention to the procedure and to avoid possible traps that usually turn out to be later in the opening of constitutional disputes and thus also to prevent in fact the provisions of the new law, which is really intended to accelerate and regulate the space in the most beautiful way possible in our country. In addition to the procedure for the exercise of dissipation in the commotion process, we find that the solution to the commotion is somewhat unfavourable, which suggests that the commotion process can be proposed by the landowner, who already has two thirds of the area in the area of the site plan. Of course, the remaining third and all owners of the remaining third are somehow exempted or have no possibility of enforcing their disagreement with the introduction of the site plan and the commotion procedure, since it is envisaged that this owner will initiate the commotion only out of his business interest. Therefore, the public interest is not well represented, allowing and justifying the leasing of the remaining thirds, which is included in the site plan on which the comassation is carried out. We point out that too little public interest is expressed in this procedure, which would be the basis later for decommissioning the remaining thirds in the area. For this reason, we have also put forward a supplementary position which speaks of the fact that, in preparing the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises for second treatment, the government should re-examine the proposed solutions in the third section, the delimitation and limitation of property rights, and the solutions in the fourth section, the compromise, so that they are consistent with the Constitution and will not reduce the already guaranteed levels of security of the destitute. Of course, we will support the marriage itself, for we feel it is equally necessary and necessary. Given that the working body has also adopted 50 complementary positions, we consider that the procedure is appropriate to continue. Of course, it is only the fact that we are talking about the 50 complementary positions that have been drawn up on the Committee, waiting for the proposer to do much work until the second reading. We want them to be extremely successful, and we want them to be fast enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Aloise Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u120	Mr President, Minister-designate and other members of the Ministry of Environment and Space, distinguished fellow Members and Members. On behalf of the two parliamentary groups, the parishes of the two municipalities made a thorough presentation of their comments. I am sure that the mayors know this issue very well, so I will not repeat it myself because it has already been said and I will be much shorter in my debate. In the New Slovenia Group, we support all the comments made in the public debate at the time of consideration of this law. We are convinced that this public debate was of great quality and that all the comments supported by the Committee, the Home Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, came from this public debate. The law, as it is prepared, seems good to us and is well prepared. However, if the Ministry takes into account the comments made in the public debate in the final preparation for the second reading, this law will, of course, be significantly better. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to three or four areas that we consider to be particularly important under this law. First of all, the protection of agricultural land. It is known that this law repeals Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act. In order for this Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act to be abolished, it was already enshrined in the coalition agreement itself signed by the coalition partners. This Article is intended to be replaced by Article 5 of this Act, which provides for certain restrictions on the use of the highest quality agricultural land. However, as has been said in the public debate, there is great pressure on the best agricultural land in the Republic of Slovenia and only in 2002 is the proposal to change the destination of around 3,000 agricultural land, without taking into account the agricultural land to be used for the construction of Slovenian motorways. We are convinced that similar protection should be regulated in this law as laid down in Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act, and this issue should be addressed by the Ministry of Environment and Space together with the Ministry of Agriculture. The law should provide a solution that protects agricultural land in a similar way as we speak of air protection or water protection. It is important to know that in Slovenia there is only 18% of the flat world and that in fact there is the greatest pressure on construction in these flat areas. I therefore point out that the drafters should consider this comment from the public debate and further examine and take account of it when preparing the draft law for the second reading. The next point I would like to draw attention to is the fact that in the law there should be a clear delimitation of jurisdiction in the area of the regulation of space between the State and the municipality, which is that in Novi Slovenija we believe that more powers should be transferred in this area according to the principle of subsidiarity to the municipality itself. Most spatial plans concern the local communities themselves, and most of these rights are also realized or implemented by our citizens in the area of local self-government where they live. Therefore, the congregations should have much more authority in this planning of space management. This law governs a number of sub-laws. We are convinced that some of the solutions contained in these sub-laws could be incorporated into the law itself, but, of course, if this is not possible, we very much welcome the decision of the home labour body that the Ministry, until the third reading, will also present to the third reading of this law in the national assembly the content of the sub-laws. The next thing we would like to draw attention to and what has not been said here today is that the law introduces the concept of regional planning, regional spatial arrangements. We point out that in Slovenia, according to our constitution, the area of the provinces or regions has not yet been regulated and it seems pointless for us to regulate this in some law before the Constitution has been amended, assuming that the constitution in this area may not be amended. I would like to draw attention to another issue on behalf of the Group of Members, namely the public in the area. It seems to us that, in the past, the most important of the existing law, I would say that conflicting interests were actually coming in this area and that the Constitutional Court had the most work to do with complaints concerning the regulation of the premises. The public should be regulated by law in such a way that there is no conflict of interest and that this public would have a certain impact on the adoption of spatial regulatory acts alone. The right to information, as set out in Article 9 of this Act, as well as the requirement that the spatial regulatory acts referred to in Article 31 be re-examined when the comments are made, do not seem to us to be a sufficiently large protector in order to avoid legal disputes in the adoption of spatial regulatory acts. We also agree with what has been said that the law has to protect private property as much as possible, private property, and that disposing procedures need to be reduced to a minimum, indeed only for those matters that are of the most vital importance for the country itself. And in the end, one suggestion. Consideration should be given to how this law should encourage the revitalisation of demographically endangered areas on the one hand and how to prevent, on the other hand, a speculative change in the destination of the area to which we are witnessing today. We have a number of unactivated industrial zones, we have a number of spindle zones, a number of areas where their destination has been changed and they do not serve their real purpose. Something has already been written in this law, such as comassations, then furnishing land with municipal infrastructure, and perhaps we should also consider how to finance this municipal infrastructure - here I have in mind mainly municipal and state resources - and how to finance some other incentives such as lower tax obligations, then state incentives in the planning of space and similar. We are convinced that such financial incentives would help to ensure more coherent regional development in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me finish. We'll support the marriage. In particular, we will be pleased if, as I have already said at the outset, the Ministry takes into account the comments made in the public consultation. We need a law in the Republic of Slovenia, especially now that the Constitutional Court has repealed the current law and has ordered the National Assembly to adopt an ombudsman's law on the regulation of premises within one year.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dusan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we fully support the proposal for a law on the regulation of space. It is high time that this long silence ended with the adoption of this law. We expect the Ministry to accelerate its actions in further activities in order to reach this agreement first. At this point, it would be too much to talk about the objectives because it has already been stressed, including by the chairman of the committee, but I would point out one thing which, according to our party's assessment, makes this law a good one. This is the first time that this law clearly and unequivocally limits the competent authorities of the State in giving their consents and opinions to spatial acts in such a way that they have to make their comments: for the first time, on the basis of sub-legislative rules, and for the second time that they have to make those comments within 30 days. The greatest error or the greatest weakness of the current system is that these procedures have been carried on unreasonablely for a long time. For reasons of non-compliance or "conformity" of certain competent ministries in their positions. It is right that this law opens up greater public participation, greater flexibility, but also restricts the country in its protection requirements. Most of the views and comments that the Liberal Democracy has forwarded to this law are summarised in the Committee's report or in the Committee's proposal for positions, and we therefore consider that the law is a good basis for the drafting of a second-reading law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia will be presented by Mr Bogomir Vnučec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister and other representatives of the Ministry! In the Party of Young Slovenia, we assess the proposal for a law on space regulation as a typical sectoral law in the field of migration. The system function consists mainly in the areas of spatial regulation of the country, areas, regions and individual municipalities, as well as the management of building land issues, the decommissioning and organisation of the spatial planning profession. The question of decommissioning is the one we are most concerned about, because we believe that the issues of expropriation should be regulated by a specific law, because we believe that the applicant was based on the criterion of a friendly congregation. However, this is only in pre-election time, as such a proposal, along with an aggressive mayor who has the support of a financial lobby, a capable financier and any other organisation, can suppress any private initiative for a long time. The Constitutional Court has already repealed part of the Building Lands Act relating to the preliminary right of municipalities to purchase building plots. Therefore, we believe that this part may even be unconstitutional, and we join all others who have been alerted to questions of decommissioning that need to be specifically addressed. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we agree that the areas of spatial planning, measures to enable the implementation of spatial arrangements, the equipping of land for construction, the regulation of spatial planning activities and the establishment of a spatial information system need to be redesigned more legally. We support the suspension of unnecessary implementing acts, which simplifies spatial and urban planning. We note, however, that the law lacks a legal basis for quality urban planning and major urban settlements, which the law hardly mentions. We also believe that the proposal for a law ignores the importance of environmental protection and sustainable development, which should lead in all areas of spatial planning. We also note that too many articles are allocated to performers and associations in the field of urban and architectural design, and we therefore believe that many of these provisions would be included in other laws or in the internal rules of those associations. In the Youth Party, we also disagree with the assessments of the financial and other consequences of the bill made by the applicant in explanation, as the changes in the existing planning and urban planning acts and the development of new plans will certainly lead to additional financial burdens for both the country and the local communities. In spite of all the above comments, we will support the law because we support any change that is for the better, and we expect the proposer to take into account both our comments and the comments of the professional public and the comments made so far from the public debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have heard representatives of the parliamentary groups. Members and Members shall have the floor. Since I have not received written applications for the debate, the discussion of possible debaters is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I would like to draw attention to another position or proposals adopted by the Committee. This is a position under the fifth indent, namely: "To manage active land policy in municipalities, the possibility of establishing a state fund for building land as a financial institution should be checked for intervention in favour of municipalities by means of its means." It is certainly part of the management and management of building plots, one of those areas that is not well-managed today and actually interferes with the fund which is responsible for agricultural land on building plots. The reason why this is so is certainly because this area is obviously not sufficiently qualityly resolved. However, somehow I have doubts that such a solution, if the State Buildings Fund were to implement the active policy of municipalities in the field of land policy, would, of course, once again be a centralist approach to the regulation of space and, above all, it seems to me that there is some kind of interference in the competence of the municipalities. Although this law does not specifically distinguish between municipalities, municipalities, for example, where they also have the seat of an administrative unit, and between those smallest congregations, it is, of course, a vague fact, a situation that makes it extremely difficult or impossible to actually find quality solutions that they can pass on to the congregations so that they can, of course, perform them with quality. In my opinion, many times also as a delegated jurisdiction from the country to the congregation. I think that such a policy would be extremely effective and, above all, would be in line with the interests and wishes of citizens and, of course, with the development of an economy that is directly linked to the area within the municipality. Thinking about setting up a state fund as a financial institution also means this radical change, obviously, even in the funds already introduced by municipalities as a local tax, and is also, somehow, a condition for those receiving financial compensation to receive such a part from the state budget. If they provide their share through compensation for the use of building land, they may also expect financial compensation at the prescribed level from the State budget. If it is a fund to be formed as a financial institution, it is likely that there will also be a change in this local tax. And, of course, it also means, of course, a change to the law on the financing of municipalities. So a whole series of extremely demanding procedures have been initiated. And I think that, however, when the government is looking for solutions and checking the possibilities for the establishment of a state building fund, it would also have before its eyes the fact that in Slovenia, but also municipalities that can take care of the building fund of their municipal land, as I think they can also successfully carry out this task for the country. And of course, I repeat that view that this could be even cheaper and, of course, more effective than that, that we are establishing a specific fund, which will, of course, also for its operation, have to provide certain financial resources. On this occasion, however, I would also like to draw attention to the law that we have terminated today. It's a law on public finances. This has already begun to introduce certain mechanisms of active land policy and allows a partnership between the country and the municipality to make property and building land, i.e. state property in the form of building land, more quickly integrates into the interests of the municipalities and is already shown here in a purely new law, so that it would probably make more sense in the law on [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] to also follow these intentions, which we have already incorporated somewhere in the Finance Committee, at least, into the Public Finance Act. [[...]] However, I think it will also be adopted at the national assembly itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u127	Mr. Weber, please, if you can finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u128	I therefore conclude my debate and apologize for the short extension of the agreed deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss Mr. Rockman again, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr. Secretary! In short, it would be defined by only one article in this Act, which is 217, which refers to the deletion of Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act. There was some talk about that today. Grepa in particular with regard to the deletion of the provision on the payment of compensation for the change of destination of the highest quality agricultural land in the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that in the present tense, especially after the way of funding has passed as an integral budget, this compensation or this purpose of these funds has decreased significantly since the funds have been re-transmitted from one address to another. But on the other hand, the fact that this has been tried, at least by introducing it, is only to reduce the pressure on the most high-quality agricultural land in our country. If we look only at the data that in 1950 we had 66 acres of agricultural land per capita in our country, from 38 acres of farmland treated and 21 acres of fields and gardens per capita. In 2000, however, agricultural land was halved, and Slovenia now has only 11 ari of land per capita. This is also a worrying issue and, on the other hand, the question of how we will ensure the proper protection of our country's best quality agricultural land by deleting Article 217. I would also draw attention to constitutional matter, which clearly states that the law must provide for specific protection of agricultural land. Strike out what does not [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u131	Just a moment, Mr. Rokavec. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you. With the deletion of Article 217, we are also strongly starting this constitutional dictatorship. There will then be no special protection of agricultural land in our country. In fact, I made a statement because it is one of the complementary positions of the home committee that the proposer should also address the issue of how to ensure adequate protection of agricultural land for the second reading. Indeed, it should be noted that Slovenia is very inconsistent with the European Union's own structure, as regards agricultural land, according to its own structure. And if we do not provide adequate protection for the best quality agricultural land, then I am sure that we will further lose our competitiveness with regard to the possibility in those areas where this competitiveness is still possible. In fact, we know that quality agricultural land is only in areas where farming conditions are also most favourable. In fact, at least there is a need to ensure maximum protection of agricultural land. If we don't guarantee this, we know it's going to be even harder elsewhere. I would therefore, once again, appeal to the proposer of the law and to the Minister and the Government as a whole to examine this provision thoroughly until the second reading and to try to create a mechanism that will ensure the proper protection of the most high-quality agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you. Since there are no more Members and Members who would like to discuss, I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! I'll try to be as short as I can because the time is coming for six. However, allow me to respond to some of the most important points. Perhaps I should start with this last one, which you have repeated by many debaters: Mr Tanko, Mr Sok, Mr grandson and someone else. Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act provides, in fact, for compensation for the change of destination. What happened? In recent years there have been some municipalities - not to say everyone - even interested in building the best quality agricultural land, because this has resulted in a large budget revenue. And once upon a time, when this levy was introduced, they had in mind the theory of the limitation of agricultural land already established by Engels in the time of Marxa, when it was necessary to find or train a less-quality agricultural land for the same extensive production of food, because the population was growing exponentially and the land was limited. Earth as a source or as a natural environment where food is produced. These theories, of course, took a long time. Oh, yeah. This instrument has become counterproductive. That is why, of course, it is very important to protect first-class agricultural land, and I must say that the Ministry of the Interior has been adopted since 70 years later, when the current regime has been adopted, which tells us what is the first quality, what is the second quality, where, in fact, there has been in many cases an administrative trick because it was such a categorisation of land as a basis for the sharing of state money. And clearly, everyone was putting a lot of land into the first category, even though they might have been the worst pastures. Since then, there has been no new attempt to define truly good agricultural land. Prof. Lobnik, who is an indisputable authority, also presented the difference between the formal first category and the first category in fact to the Infrastructure Committee - or the public presentation of opinions. The actual first category is much smaller. But I don't want to get too involved in this. Article 5 of this Act refers to the special protection of agricultural land. Just like the Constitution dictates. I can say, if you may know a person, Mrs Marta Hrastel, of the Ministry of Agriculture, who actually cares there for the protection of agricultural land, said that our Article 5 was more rigorous than the current provisions of Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act. I will not use this to loosen this article in a second reading, because it seems important to me to protect agricultural land. However, it is also important to prevent the madness that has taken place so far when, at all costs, some agricultural land was protected in the midst of urban areas, which are, of course, totally inappropriate for agricultural production, but by chance have the formal status of the first category, although they may never have been of that quality at all. We will certainly drink further Article 5, which is a substitute for Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act. The Committee’s point of view is also on our way. However, I would like to point out that the red thread of this law - and thus I respond to some other comments - is sustainable development. In fact, we are trying to find a balance in this law between the development component and the protection of natural resources, which is called sustainable development in other words. And if I may say so, on the other hand, on the other hand, the positions of the Socialist Group of Members speak of the fact that we are giving little attention to the development component in the natural resource protection campaign. Mr. Grandchild's views were, say, quite the opposite. I mean, the views of the different debaters are a little bit different. This is not unusual, for, after all, the interests in the space are conflicting. Mr Sok said that in the second reading, the law should ensure that there is no conflict in the area of interventions. That's, unfortunately, impossible. Space interventions by nature are very controversial: some want this, others want something else. It is important, however, to establish a mechanism that will lead to a rapid and relatively effective solution. There has been no mechanism so far, and this law with the new mechanisms that have been introduced here today is trying to lead to these mechanisms. And allow me to give you an illustration. During the years 1995 to 1999, in Slovenia it was built or allowed to build, sometimes there was no actual building, 1574 ha of land of the first category. However, it was rejected, and the municipalities proposed, and a change to the building site was rejected by the State at 1354 ha, a little less than was allowed. These figures mean slightly more than 1% of the agricultural land in Slovenia. During the same period 1995 - 1999, 142,000 hectares of agricultural land were uncontrollable. And that's why no one's "sexing." After all, some warn that this is bad for the Slovenian landscape, but that is 142,000 ha is 16.5% of all agricultural land in Slovenia. There's a bigger problem here. Some of the comments concerned decommissioning. Mr Webra's point of view and the position of the Member's Club of the United Nations is, in my opinion, justified. In fact, we already have some guidance from the Infrastructure Committee on this debate. Certainly, the decommissioning process at the point of the Commission is not appropriate, as Mr Weber spoke about. However, it is necessary to determine what is going on with public infrastructure. This is how we support the complementary position of the United Nations Group. As to the impact of the congregation on the conditions of the wall, I must say that the influence of the congregation is fully assured here. The municipality issues the location information and the municipality accepts the location plans. It must define everything it thinks is necessary to define them. The administrative unit does not have any room for manoeuvre. It is true, on the other hand, that many municipalities of course accept the spatial regulatory conditions very superficially and that, in fact, too many things leave too much discretion to designers and administrative units. This law, as someone mentioned, I think Mr Vukko will be very cruel to state authorities, co-operators who will have to make their terms very clear within 30 days. If they don't tell, it'll be considered automatic. This will be a lot of warmth if I may use this term, I'm talking about state authorities, this law is cruel to state authorities. However, it is also cruel to the congregations if they do not accept sufficient precise location plans. Therefore, of course, it is important to strengthen this professional function, I think, as an expert team in municipalities that deal with urbanism, as well as to train eventually municipal councils. Someone said that making new plans would cost a lot, which is the financial consequence of this law. I'll say it's not true. Currently, there are spatial plans in the municipalities, spatial components of long-term plans from 1985 to 2000. They were extended because there was no new arrangement. Thus, at present, spatial plans are still in place from 1985 to 2000, and the municipalities must go into new spatial plans anyway. This transitional period is impossible to carry on for another year or two. That is why, of course, the new spatial plans will not be the responsibility of this law, but will be the fault of an existing state that is very outdated. Here were some comments concerning the state-level building fund. Here we foresee only a financial function, without the State Buildings Fund now interfering with some building policy or land building policy by municipalities, that would be reckless. However, I must say that, actually, the housing fund with the municipalities is already going to build non-profit apartments as a co-investor and, in fact, in individual municipalities is also going to buy buildings for housing. In a way, I can say that the building land fund is even at the state level. Respa, on the other hand, is that the preliminary right for potential building sites in this law is given only to the congregation, not to the State, and this seems important to me, after all, the congregation must have this mechanism in hand. Just for the end. The changing positions of the Socialist Party's Group of Members are proposed - four are, I can say, fully support the third, the fourth is not because the issue will be regulated in spatial rules as a sub-legislative act. The first is, but I don't have time to explain, I think it's a bit problematic, even though he's saying to study the possibility, it's not so hard for a proposaler to explain why it's inappropriate. However, I also reject the second point of view, because I believe that in the law we have sufficiently highlighted the regional level and given special attention to it, that we have first defined the function of the province, because it is constitutionally not yet, of course we are going with regional designs to partnership between the country and the congregation. And I believe that the intention from another point of view is, in fact, already covered by law as much as possible, the secretariat proposes that we even delete those provisions concerning the province or move them to the end. This is, of course, contrary to this pivotal position. However, I thank you for this constructive debate. As I have already announced before, of course all the things going in the context of the law would be taken into account with pleasure in the drafting of the second reading bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Rokavec first took the floor, then Mr Tanko. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. He responded to that part of the Minister's statement when he said that between 1995 and 2000, 120,000 ha of agricultural land had grown in Slovenia. And that's why no one "sex" anything. No, Mr. Minister, I think it's a worrying fact that during this time 120,000 ha has healed. But it's a different question. I am sure that it will be much worse if any hectare is overly built on the best quality agricultural land. In fact, we must be aware that only 18% of the total area of the Republic of Slovenia is the so-called flat world, where everyone is attacked: from agricultural production, to infrastructure and highway. This is exactly what I highlighted in my debate. Indeed, excessive greed, if triggered by this law, will further exacerbate the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture, particularly where it could be competitive with agriculture in the European Union. Therefore, I believe that there is still a need to establish the rigorous protection of the most quality agricultural land, which I believe does not allow this to happen in Article 5. This I think is a key problem that should be addressed further in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to replicate a little to the Minister, especially in his statement, I hope that the Minister has overheard or misunderstood. I said in my debate that it was a day of under-emphasis on revitalisation and recycling of degraded and abandoned areas for development purposes and that it was given too much emphasis on supporting new areas. And this, what is called recycling and revitalisation, should be highlighted or very stressed targeted migration and development, otherwise we have double damage, it is said, on one side of the abandoned area, the decaying surface, and on the other hand we are opening or supporting pressure on new agricultural areas. In my discussion at the end, I also said that it would make sense to provide for other incentive measures, such as those that would guide the development of unused walled areas and facilities, and, on the other hand, measures to protect agricultural areas. I believe that we have enough in the space of Slovenia, we can say, the so-called excesses of unused surfaces that we do not use and do not do enough to guide the development and use of these surfaces, objects and so on, where they are. The matter remains completely open. While those who have an interest in money who want to be in the suburbs or in large cities simply exert pressure on agricultural land and thereby actually eliminate all efforts, both after steady development, after sustainable development and in similar matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-20-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Sok also took the floor, and I do not think that we will be able to carry out the vote today on the proposal for the decision of the mother labour body. So that tomorrow, Mr Sok, you will be given the opportunity to debate in the open debate on the law at first reading at 10 a.m. Your Honor, thank you very much for today. So tomorrow we continue the general debate on agenda 7 – this is when we consider the proposal for a law on space regulation. I thank the representatives of the government and the secretariat very much. Of course, we continue after work tomorrow then for the consideration of 8, 9, and in order of course further. Thank you very much.
