ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u1	Nice greetings to all, including both representatives of the government, ministers of Gantar and Bohinc! I would like to inform you that a great deal of our colleagues and colleagues have been excused for the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, but I must conclude that, in the case which we have not yet had, a vote could have taken place, in the event of non-conclusion, on the day that they were inconclusive, on the following day. I hope that doesn't happen. That's not what's happened to us. But it's only right that we know how we're going to act in such cases. I hope that this afternoon too will not happen when we vote at half past six. So far, as we've been told, this hasn't happened. Dr. Andrej Bajuk will be missing today, colleague Barovic, Bevk, Dr. Brejc, Cimperman, Chebulj, Celigoj. From 16:00 on, colleague mag. From 1:00 p.m., a colleague of Dr. Gasparini's from 1:00 p.m. on Germich, then Mag. Gračner, Horvath, Kacin. Since 5 p.m., colleague Kavčič. Since 1:00 p.m., my colleague Kelemina. Since 4:00 p.m., colleague Kopushar. Colleagues Malovar, Petan, Possonec, Sok, Spindler, Tanko, Target, Trophynik and Zamernik from 12 o'clock onwards. Well, quite a lot of colleagues and colleagues. I suggest we move on to 20. At the end of the day, it is firstly a proposal for a law on access to public information. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to this law, there is a group of 11 Members with a first-signed magi. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. First, I will give the government a five-minute opportunity to further explain the bill. Please, Dr. Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u2	Your Honor, my fellow Minister Gantar and I will present the law together, as we have been preparing together, so on my part, the shortest. The Public Information Access Act is an important pillar of the open state administration because it is one of the foundations of its reform. Only with information can an armed citizen participate in public discussions. This lays the foundation for civil participation in the management of social matters. The law lays down a very liberal principle that any information is accessible unless it is included in exceptions. The exceptions are precisely listed, specifically listed in the law itself, and our arrangement is no different from that of others. By the way, 24 out of 30 OECD countries already have such a law. An important regulation of the law is the presumption of public interest, which means that interest is not specifically needed for citizens to prove. And the law has a rule that information is accessible by all public authorities and public administrations, except for the judiciary. It will make sense to discuss the issue of the judiciary. The law would be better if the court were involved. Two more things are important. The law is based on the procedure for judicial protection of the right to public information. In the first instance, it is the competent government to resolve complaints, then in the second instance, the administrative court. And the last. The law introduces a special body, a public information access council, which is supposed to play an encouraging, advisory, proactive role in this, assist citizens and promote this right. So much for me. I propose that the law be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u3	Please, Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The law before you, which regulates access to information of a public nature, also gives effect to the constitutional right and freedom of citizens and citizens to obtain information that allows insight into the work of public authorities and thus the possibility to control their functioning. Information and access to information of a public nature are still important for the exercise of other rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. In addition, let me stress and point out one of the authors involved in this area that in recent years the concept of freedom of information has evolved from the moral condemnation of the country's secrecy and confidentiality to the tool for market regulation and better governance and for economic and technological development. In fact, this law also changes the way public authorities operate, in particular information, as has been said, which is not protected, accessible and available to all interested parties. This information, data, analyses are collected with the taxpayer's money and it is good that they are also available to them. In countries where secondary use of information is permitted, a strong information industry has developed, based on the processing and processing of this information for the private sector, NGOs, universities and so on. According to data published by the European Union, the use of information of a public nature in the Union has already reached some €70 billion, as well as other segments of the telecommunications industry. So opening up this information is an important economic incentive. We followed the following principles in the law: the law should be based on the presumption of openness, the state is not the owner of the information, they belong to the citizens; the exceptions must be recorded in the law and, where possible, precisely defined; the exceptions must be based on the damage that can be identified if the information were to come to the public. Also, where there is damage, it is necessary to assess whether it outweighs public interest if such information is not published. This judgment was given to the Court of Appeal and, of course, to the Administrative Court. An authority shall be established to decide on disputes. After all, let me stress that the adoption of such a law also requires the development of an information society, especially the global web, and that the law also provides for publication on government and ministry portals and so on, reducing the need for a specific request for information. All these elements are provided in this law, of course taking into account our legal order. Some things may still be the subject of debate, including some initiatives that came later. I also support the position of Minister Bohinc in relation to the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Dr. Gantar. Let me remind you how much individual parliamentary groups have time to discuss: LDS 15 minutes, SDS 5, ZDSL 5, SLS 5, NSI 20 minutes, DeSUS 5, SNS 10, SMS 5 minutes and government 3 minutes to respond. We will hear presentations of the positions of the groups of Members. First of all, I will invite my colleague, Mr Kebrich, to present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. You have the floor, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister or two ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! We live in the age of the information society, where we get information from citizens from different sources, and they are dominated by printed electronics provided by other media. A man with no information is not only a blind man, but he is also deaf, so he is completely disabled. However, in order for our citizens not to be such in this sense, the matter is already regulated in the 39th Article of our Constitution, where everyone's right to acquire information of a public nature is enshrined. This is the basic category of human rights and freedoms, which also legally limits the democratic political system where information is available to the public. The political system is undemocratic, where information is not available to the public. Of course, such a system is undemocratic. The greatest good is that you have the widest possible range of information to create your own opinion on the democratic right of your freedom. When the political system was replaced in the 1990s, democracy in our society made significant progress. The fact is, in totalitarian regimes, the public does not have access to information of a public nature, but only to information that is being launched either by the regime of its own volition or by those that are uniquely suited to it. The proposal for the adoption of a law on access to information of a public nature was already presented in the Ombudsman's 1998 report, together with a specific analysis proposing solutions on the accessibility of regulations. 7 years earlier, in 1991, our constitution was adopted, where this right, as has been said, was specifically established. We are therefore aware that this is one of the important laws for our political system, which is reflected in democracy and freedoms, because it also strengthens this democratic system in practice. In our Group of Members, we support the adoption of this law, but we have some comments that we believe would be worth considering and carefully reconsidering in the process below. First of all, we believe that, according to the principle of equality between all the three branches of political power, it is not appropriate to exclude any of them, so we propose that further consideration should be given to the application of this law to the judiciary, which is now excluded in Article 1, whose proposal for a law does not, as it is said, take into account. Such solutions should be considered and, by the time we become full members of the European Union, should also be allowed to make provision, explicitly, in the case of partial access to information covered by Article 6 of this Law, a written decision should also be issued. We estimate that, after eleven years of the adoption of the Constitution, it is high time for the adoption of this law, which will, at a normative level, remove the legal void and in this area, ensure the exercise of the constitutional right referred to in Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure that everyone has the right to receive information of a public nature. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. Now I give the word "magic." Majdi Potter. It will present the position of the ZLSD Group, followed by its colleague, Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! By entering the information society, the awareness of the importance of information has increased dramatically. The availability of public information, however, is a criterion of country-specific democracy and a basis for assessing the quality and effectiveness of the functioning of the state administration, which has the highest level of information collected in the country. At the same time, it is also possible for anyone to provide or prevent access to information of a public nature. And since the availability of information also allows for more active and quality integration of individuals, the regulation of important public affairs and other rights and freedoms, the United List of Social Democrats attaches great importance to the legal regulation of this area. Although the right to obtain information of a public nature is already enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution, we are also guided by two internationally binding acts, namely the International Covenant on Civil Rights of the United Nations and the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe. With the adoption of the law, Slovenia will join most OECD members who already have such a law. Comparability with the laws of other countries is thus important in shaping the definitive form of the law. For with the free movement of people, goods and services, the free movement of information is a vital achievement of the modern world. An important change in the public administration's openness is the fact that the bill comes from free access to information of a public nature and mentions the exceptions in which access is restricted and not vice versa. Of course, any amendments proposed by non-governmental organisations may also be taken into account in the proposed legislative text. However, it is necessary to maintain the comparability of these exemptions with exceptions in other countries. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the exercise of the right to unhindered accessibility of information of a public nature, the legislative proposal also lays down a procedure for the request, if it is oral or written, imposing on the official person responsible for the transmission of information of a public nature to assist in the process. In this context, it would suggest considering comments on the need to shorten the deadlines set for the decision on the request and the decision on the re-examination request. In particular, it points out that the proposal takes into account the legal practice of other countries which do not require specific verification of the legal interest but which recognise it to everyone. It is necessary, however, to reconsider the decision not to include the proposer of the judiciary in the draft law under consideration. For we believe that it would be appropriate to cover all three branches of government. It is good to transfer from regulatory level to practice that the availability of information is free and that certain material costs should not destroy declared free. The provisions relating to judicial protection of the right to access public information will undoubtedly help to revive the law in practice and thus to the real functioning of the public administration as an open and democratic one. The establishment of a special body, the Council for Access to Public Information, can be adopted as a solution comparable to other European countries. However, it would be necessary to consider whether an effective assistance to an individual in the exercise of the rights enshrined in this law could be provided with its own advisory and incentive role. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that we need a law on access to information of a public nature and that the proposal for a law is suitable for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Spending. Is Comrade Jelinčič with us? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite you to the word of my colleague Sponik. He will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased to have received in the procedure a proposal for a law on access to information of a public nature. The law is interdepartmental in some sense, as it was carried by two ministers and then by two secretaries of state. So, information society and internal affairs. Therefore, in the context of the first reading, the parliamentary group publicly announces its support for this law. And only briefly as the reasons for listing the following. The right to obtain information of a public nature is one of the fundamental rights in a democratic country, as it allows access to insight into the functioning of a state apparatus, thereby allowing better control of its functioning. Given that the transparency of the functioning of the state administration is becoming more and more topical at times, this area would also be regulated by the adoption of such a umbrella law. Finally, it is also a way through which the functioning of the State of Administration is as close as possible to those for whom it is. The state administration is for the benefit of citizens, not citizens for the sake of state administration. Taking into account Slovenia's orientation towards the development of an information society and electronic administration, e-government, this is a step in the right direction. The importance of the adoption of this law is, last but not least, reinforced by the views of the only true European Parliament, if we may say so, that is the Council of Europe, because the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and also this argument follows from the United Nations Act, which is the International Covenant on Civil Rights. These are the pacts and acts which are legally binding on Slovenia. By adopting this law, the Slovenian State will exercise in the Constitution the rights already guaranteed to access information of a public nature. It should be pointed out that the law lays down exceptions, which are then also very detailed, in which access to information may be refused. In addition, this law will oblige the authorities to transmit individual information to the global web and will also streamline their work and regulate the regular maintenance and updating of the data lists. Information carriers of a public nature are deliberately defined on a very broad scale, as it is only in this way that individuals can have access to the widest possible range of information. The positive contribution of the law is also an opportunity for an individual to apply for information in writing, in an electronic manner, even orally. This reduces the bureaucracy of the whole process. Our citizens and citizens do not like bureaucratic procedures. They also want personal contacts, and this law makes it possible. The applicant's legal protection, whose request for access has not been granted, also covers the right to appeal and the right to judicial protection. It is also important to mention that certain controls on the monitoring and exercise of the right of the public to obtain information of a public nature would also be welcome. The proposal of a non-governmental organisation, as a special information guardian, as already mentioned in the Constitution, has already been mentioned here by a well-respected spokeswoman. For the Constitution allows the possibility of establishing a guardian for special areas, such as the Ombudsman's proposal for children's rights. In order to achieve swift and uniform legal protection, the Government in charge will be in charge of the exercise of immediate control, and we support that. The Act on Access to Public Information is essentially a statutory law and also by its adoption means that in this area Slovenia is approaching the acquis in the European Union and will therefore have the support of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. Mr Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party, followed by mag. Petty of the position of the New Slovenia Party. However, I must inform you, Comrade Peca, that you have missed the time when you had the floor; in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I will give you my word if there is time to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! As the drafter notes in the introduction of the bill, it is everyone's right to obtain information of a public nature, especially with us, since it is a constitutional right; this is classified in Article 39 as a category of human rights and fundamental freedoms. And, as follows in the introduction of the proposaler, the constitutional right mentioned in Slovenian law has been regulated in a weak, non-systematic, partial and opaque manner. A wide range of absurd situations can be made by such a law if it is written in good quality, corrected and improved, all with the aim of maximizing the protection of rights and thus bringing the democratic ideal of the country closer to. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we support the proposers and join and support the intention to regulate the procedure through which access to information of a public nature will be possible and where there will be tax exemptions when access to information is not possible. In the opinion of our Members, however, it is essential for these exceptions to be interpreted restrictively. It seems here that the applicant was not sufficiently thorough or in this case restrictive and would take into account more than the reasoned comments of NGOs and individuals gathered under the auspices of the Peace Institute. I am talking in particular about possible exceptions to the general principle of free access and in our opinion the greatest shortcomings of the bill's proposal, namely the absence of effective control and incentive mechanisms for the exercise of justice, which is the core substance of the bill we are discussing. The comment on the information ombudsman or the extension of powers in this regard to the current Ombudsman is also well founded and worth considering further. However, for the envisaged funds or consequences for the budget after the adoption of the law, we consider the applicant to be underestimating the scope of the matter, and this could be a poor journey to this law. We accept the law for a more transparent and, consequently, more effective functioning of the country, not just for the likeness or formal equation with foreign legal systems. This provision would also apply later in the procedure to further consider. And as I said in the introduction, we will support the law in the Young Slovenia Party and, of course, in the further process, if necessary, propose appropriate corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you, colleague grandchild. The position of the New Slovenia Group will now be presented by colleague Majda Zupan. Then we will go to the debate of Members and Members, the first to receive the word of colleague Joseph Jerovšek. Please, colleague Zupanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The right to be informed or to obtain information of a public nature is a constitutional right and falls within the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms and is a prerequisite for the effective exercise of a whole range of other rights, including the right to participate in public affairs, the right to legislative initiative, the legislative referendum and the like. We are aware that the right to be informed is poorly regulated in different laws. Even more poorly defined is the procedure for accessing information of a public nature and its legal protection. The Secret Data Act, last year, regulates the right to access classified data of public security, defence, external affairs, intelligence and security activities, but there is a lack of systematic regulation to enable the exercise of this right in its integrity, especially through information technology. However, in the case of the draft law before us, we would like to draw attention to some of the provisions, namely those which indicate that an obstacle to journalists could also be established, such as the time limit for the authority to provide information, and exceptions to the fact that information of a public nature cannot be obtained. Here I refer to Article 5 which lists the exceptions in which the authority refuses access to information to the applicant. One reason is also that the information contained in the document which is in the production process and its disclosure would lead to a misinterpretation of its content, or that the information obtained or drawn up by the administrative procedure would be detrimental to its implementation. Such a reason is understandable in criminal matters, not in administrative matters. Both exemptions are very extensive and have a possible consequence that any public document can obtain a'manufacturing' mark, which may mean that the public will not have control of state administration procedures, such as documents in administrative proceedings. There is also a loose provision concerning the time limit for the Authority to decide on the applicant’s request without delay and no later than 20 days after receipt of the request, or it may be longer, thirty days if the Authority needs more time to provide the requested information in order to exercise partial access to information of a public nature or because of the scope of the requested document. Thus, such a loose provision can give the State and other authorities a large margin of manoeuvre and means that the authorities will be able to retain any relevant information for a longer period of time, i.e. for several months without justified reasons. In addition to the editorial censorship experienced by journalists, direct state censorship can happen. But we are asked another question, namely, the regulation of the acquisition of information from archives or records, which most Eastern European countries have already done. We also need to regulate this area properly, or there will still be abuse and bullying of individuals. We also believe that information in the field of justice should not be excluded, or that too many grey fields remain, and that can make the law in some way crippled. We hope that this is not what the proposalr wants. In our New Slovenia Group, we support all efforts to bring this constitutional right into practice. We want as much information as possible to be available to the public, because this right reflects the essence of democracy, because it allows for an insight into the functioning of public authorities and thus the control of their functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have thus exhausted the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I now invite my colleague Jerovsk, my colleague Beumann, to the floor. Comrade Jerovšek? You don't want a word? Okay. Please, Comrade Beumann, you have the floor behind you, Comrade Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! The Act on access to information of a public nature by its content provides or enables the exercise of human rights and the freedom to access information of a public nature provided by Article 39 of our Constitution. We are considering the bill 11 years after the constitution has been in force, but better late than never. I believe that this is a very important law because the matter under consideration is regulated by international law in such important acts as the International Covenant on Civil Rights of the United Nations and the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe. At the same time, it is certainly necessary to highlight the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Legal Protection on Environmental Matters, which is better known by name of the place where it was adopted, as the Aarhus Convention, which unfortunately has not been ratified since almost five years since it was adopted. I deeply hope that the information published in the introduction of the law is true and that we will soon receive the ratification law of the Aarhus Convention and, by adopting it as soon as possible, make it legal. The Public Information Access Act is an important legal instrument for the implementation of the first pillar of the Convention, which provides individuals and civil society with access to environmental information. Of course, it is not just an environmental issue; it is basically a culture of transparent public authority. In view of the above, it is clear that today we are dealing with an extremely important law that will have a strong impact on the development of participatory democracy after its adoption or after its full implementation, a political system that enforces the principle of reaching consensus of all entities of society when making decisions that concern them. Therefore, I strongly support the adoption of the law and I think it is appropriate to hold a general debate in the context of the first reading. I believe that the bill is well-written and is a suitable basis for further consideration, but I have some concerns about the definition that the law does not apply to the judiciary, and it is also questionable that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia publishes every year a list of bodies which are bound by the law to give public information. The law should also make it more decisive to ensure that the public is as informed as possible about the functioning of the authorities. In the next stages of the adoption of the law, effective mechanisms will need to be put in place to monitor the implementation of the law and to process incentives for the exercise of the right to obtain information of a public nature. It will be necessary to overcome the old thought that anything that is not explicitly defined as accessible is not available. In the spirit of democratic tradition, however, rules and practices must be put in place to ensure that all materials are accessible to the public, except those identified by law as inaccessible or marked with a certain degree of confidentiality. The basic provisions should be supplemented by the provision that in dispute cases there is a burden of proof on the authority refusing to disclose the information requested for confidentiality. In order to avoid excessive arbitration, the exceptions should be listed very precisely when the authority rejects and as far as possible restricts access to information to the applicant. It is not acceptable for publicly available information to become inaccessible to the public after they have been transferred to the archives. Let me finish with the idea that we have a good marriage ahead of us. This assessment is also based on an important fact that information does not need to be legally substantiated by the applicant or explicitly indicate that it is a request for access to information of a public nature. In the parliamentary group of liberal democracy, we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to my colleague. Did he give you a speech? [[...]] I wasn't paying attention to that. Do you request a replica? I don't think he even referred to you in his speech, Comrade Jerovšek, so I can't give you the replica. Then I'll give you my word when the time is right. Please, Dr. Bernick now has the floor, followed by his colleague Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u18	Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I welcome the idea of this marriage. Much has already been said about the need for this law, as well as some shortcomings, so I will limit myself to some other things in my comment. Indeed, all traditional countries have had this law for many years, some even decades. We have been hesitant about this, and we have finally come up with a law, or draft, that is similar to some other European countries. The proposaler says that the basic provisions on the public information in many other countries are well regulated and that the law is also based on the constitution and constitutional rights of citizens. The applicant also mentions various laws that mention or limit information on the public in certain other laws. These include the Media Act, archival materials and archives, the Personal Data Security Act and so on. Our Constitution, Article 39, enshrines the right of citizens to acquire information of a public nature, into the category of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Everything's fine and fine up here. But we are still a transition state, without a democratic tradition. Many of our institutions are built solidly, but they often lack a spirit and character. This proposal also has one essential flaw, as well as some other laws that have already been adopted. Like the ones I mentioned above. I'm mentioning this on the basis of past experience, so allow me some scepticism. Our government, this is the government of the success story, has carefully protected itself and its employees in its 10-year operation and monopoly so that citizens do not access certain data. That is said, they cannot exercise their constitutional rights. This is true in the whole field of information on the functioning of the government, and in particular some information on the darker sides of the past and its impact on the current national orientation. By using a state ideology based on the so-called conquests of the revolution, we still have major problems. Well, then, where is the problem with this law or the bill? Article 5 lists the exceptions to rejecting the procedure for the information requested. These exceptions are quite 13. That's what you call it. It's a lucky number. In the meantime, there are some such laws that have already been passed and incorporated into the rights of citizens of fences that cannot be jumped through. These are, for example, personal data on the functioning of some of the current high and other state officials in the past non-democratic repression regime. Furthermore, some articles in the archives also make it impossible to access certain data that were once public and are now closed. This isn't about chasing people from the past. It is, however, that we citizens have the right to know who we are dealing with in the public administration and in the economy. Other transition countries have done so, and the world has not failed them. Even so, they have no more serious problem with reconciliation than we do. Without such an extension of this law, we can say that this proposal is an extension of the fence I spoke of above. Well, otherwise this fence will fall by itself one day, but it's still here. For example, when the law comes into force, I will be extremely interested to find out what personal representation costs the President of the State and the Prime Minister have to place themselves around the world as the best statesmen in our country; personally, I know that this is a heavy million dollars. Then I would also like to ask what happened to the nuncioura in Ljubljana. It should have been built ten years ago, at least the beginning of the construction, but it hasn't moved anywhere, and man can't find out what happened to this thing. And a few other things, including some of the information that a man requires from the secretariat of our Parliament, he doesn't get any answers, so he doesn't know what it is about. This way, I predict a few questions after the law comes into force. In Novi Slovenija, as my predecessor, Mrs Majda Zupan, has already said, we will support the law, aware that it has shortcomings. However, we hope that our citizens, by their intervention or the use of constitutional rights, will give this law wings and that the government will be forced to amend this law sooner or later by really expressing the constitutional rights of all of us citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Dr. Bernick. My friend Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, ministers! In fact, for 11 years we have been waiting for this bill to take place in the National Assembly, which finally specifies the constitutional provisions of one of the categories of human rights and freedoms, is the right of everyone to obtain information of a public nature. However, in my view, this bill is not only important because it makes it possible to exercise constitutional rights, but because it finally allows for the ventilation of dead bureaucrat offices in public administration. In doing so, I refer to the historical tradition of the closure and secrecy of the work of the public authorities, which has established the rule that anything that is not explicitly defined as public or not enforced in the public interest is inaccessible. It is true that this is not only characteristic of our public administration, but I think it is time for us to open the public administration to all citizens and citizens, regardless of their interest, because we will only allow their legitimate exercise of rights and interests. In particular, the proposal for a law will allow people to have an insight into the functioning and understanding of state bodies and their work, and thus to have indirect control over them. However, I see the importance of the law in the possibility of the quality of involving these people in the management of public affairs and, as a result, their increased activation in the political space. Citizens will be given the opportunity to learn all the information so far silenced, which state officials consider not to be for any ears. However, I am also convinced that this law will prevent unjustified exploitation, in particular materially, of certain public servants by holding back or directing, the transmission of information only to certain entities, even though this information should be made publicly available. In other words, the President, I think that this law will somehow try to prevent attempts at corrupt behaviour by public officials. This law will have a indirect impact on the evaluation of the performance of individual civil servants, who so far have only a monopoly on the transmission of information which should be made publicly available to all. From now on, it will be easier to assess whether they are doing their work successfully, efficiently and professionally. We will break the door to so-called "guy keepers" or public servants who, by retaining important information, have prevented the necessary changes to certain policies. I also see the great value of this law in the benefits of the economy, as it will be easier for them to plan the implementation of business activities because of transparency of publicly accessible decisions and policies of public authorities. However, this will only happen if, given the development of information technology and the orientation of Slovenia towards the development of the information society and in this context, e-governments make it possible to access public information as much as possible through information technology. It is therefore also an important provision of the law which obliges the authorities to transmit individual categories of information to the global Internet, with such access to information being free of charge. The applicant states in the explanatory memorandum that this provision seeks to facilitate access to information of a public nature and, on the other hand, to rationalise and burden the work of the authorities, since access to information which will be made available on the Internet will not require a specific administrative procedure. I believe that this view of the benefits I have mentioned is too narrow. According to the Anglo-Saxon countries, the established policy of an open government or "open government" needs to be published online as many computer bases as possible with information that would benefit all of us, as well as the economy. As a result, I think the assessment of the financial implications, which has already been said here, is too modest for the proposer. I would like to invest more resources in information technology and in publishing information online in public authorities. It is true that this proposal is not a matter of law because it contains a lenient direction, but I would, of course, call on both ministers here to avoid interpreting the law too narrowly and to take it seriously into account. Of course I'll support the marriage. In addition to this, I support the basic guidelines or principles set out here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Representatives of the government wanted to respond with 3 minutes to the debate between Members and Members. I see from the hall that some would like to enforce the option set out in Article 71. Does the government want a word now or at the end of this debate? At the end. Who wants a word now? Comrade Peca, colleague Jerovšek, colleague Drobnic. There's quite a few of us. There's less than a half hour left. I suggest that each of you has seven minutes in this order. My friend's baking first. Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I apologize for not taking advantage of our opportunity to present the Group of Members. It was a mistake on our part, because we were late and would therefore devote this implementation to the implementation of the Slovenian National Party's position by implementing the Act. This is in any way one of the last constitutional categories that have not been legally defined. There's still a few left in the constitution. So this means that some small constitutional categories still have to be prepared by the government so that we can say that we fully respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and implement from it those provisions that the Government of the Republic must implement. In the presentation of the parliamentary groups, more or less of all the parliamentary groups gave a positive opinion on this law and also in the Slovenian National Party. We sincerely hope that the law will achieve its objective and that the law will help to reduce, for the first time, the dissatisfaction of customers, public information carriers and, on the other hand, to achieve some kind of synergy effect. But we fear, unfortunately, that this effect will not be achieved, because the weakness in the law, as we see in the Slovenian National Party, arises mainly from Article 1, which is the content of that law, when the law taxibly states that the judicial branch of power is omitted. It is the judicial branch of the authorities or the court which should be designated as the holder of public information and the availability of public information by them. We also assess that the biggest disagreement on the acquisition of public information is in the area of the judiciary. You will probably be able to answer the bill that this is a different matter, which is already defined in the basic laws of the judiciary. However, in the light of the first reading and the general discussion, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would call on you, however, to allow for the elasticity and release of the second paragraph of Article 1, so that the judiciary can also be identified as the holder of public information which is required to provide such information in accordance with the subsequent provisions set out in this Act. Today, at least in the first reading, we will not verbally object to the fact that we sincerely hope, in the form of an additional one, as we have said, to be met at the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much, buddy. Comrade Jerovšek, behind you Comrade Petty Officer and colleague of Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u24	After 12 years and more, since we have a constitution, it is indeed time for the fundamental constitutional right to be supplemented by legal matter, or this delayed government reflection, in fact, to show the attitude towards the exercise of fundamental constitutional rights. When I listen to and watch the law here, I feel that access to information of a public nature will still be relatively difficult after this law has been adopted, especially when the public is interested in information that is extremely important, about things that - or about the lack of authority. In fact, it is indicative that in this law, the most extensive and detailed Article 5, which mentions exceptions, has 13 per cent, and I am convinced that we have such a capable authority that it will find its cause in one of these 13 points for exceptions when it wants to prevent the public from obtaining any information of a public nature. Indeed, this is happening, and I can say that, at the time of the pre-election campaign, there was, in fact, a huge breach of this law, which has not yet been adopted. This also leads me, I will say, to the hypocrisy of two of my fellow Members who referred here to the fact that the old thought must be exceeded, that everything that is not explicitly accessible is inaccessible, and that, as Mr Jakič has said, we should send the public administration to all the information. See, on Monday, Mr Bayuk asked the Prime Minister, the President's candidate, about information to provide information on the state's assets balance. He did not get the information which was extremely important, which was legally determined, and on this basis demanded that we discuss it. And here's the hypocrisy. I think that both colleagues voted against such a debate being opened and that Members at least get this information, which is of a public nature. You voted against it. And that's why I need to define myself against such a hypocrisy that when you can be liked by the public, you act like a popular audience, and in a specific case, your behavior is the opposite. Look, at this time, in the last two months, if I only remember the cases where such a fundamental constitutional right was violated. The public or journalists wanted to verify who was using protocol facilities for private purposes. How many times have they been used? Or paid for private purposes. This is information that the public is extremely interested in. Maybe the most during this time. I remember a while ago that they were also asking questions as to whether, when the authorities of the Liberal Democracy were sitting on the Hill, whether they paid the bill and who paid it. I don't think the public got that information. Then on Monday, we asked the Minister of Health to finally provide information on who those unfortunates who had probably already died who had not been, I think, offered or accessible a fundamental constitutional right to access health services. Which wasn't designed to investigate cancerous tissue, and that's definitely why they died. We didn't get any information. Who were individuals, or of the 3,000 who were not granted exceptions. There seems to have been exceptions at this time under the status criterion, according to the criterion of political preferences. Yes, this is the most important information that the Member of Parliament cannot receive on an explicit question in this country. Here we are listening to how you advocate that the average citizen will be able to get information he is interested in and who is objectively interested in. And we're actually going to go so double-timely that we're going to appear to be fighting for something, and in practice, it's your government that's consistently violating it, almost consistently. I call on you, fellow Members, to be there when there is an opportunity when there is a vote that we will come up with some information to press the "yes" button and it will be there when you really think or just bluff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer, behind you, Comrade Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about this law, we are actually opening the fundamental question of civilisation, whose country it is. It's just been going on so far that some people have taken it for a lease. I'm not thinking about this last short-term period right now, I'm thinking about a period that goes way back. And that was happening, and that's what we got, that chip in the head. That is why it is also characteristic of the service treatment of public authorities when you demand it, and when you expect information of a public nature, others keep it. So this raises the question of whose country it is. The state must be owned by citizens. Everything that is public information must be made available in the same way to all. Therefore, I also object to the proposal for a law establishing the office of President when an extra approach to certain data is determined by explicit determination to the former President after the end of the term of office when he is no longer there. Any time. We need to be aware of that. We need to maintain this civilizational posture. Anyone. We must all have symmetrical possibilities for public data. Otherwise, it must be determined why not and who has the authority. Another question is being raised. With regard to data from the former State Security Service. The right to access this data and to prevent, of course, abuse. If this information is available to someone, then it is misused and someone else is not, we are once again violating that right or equality. Surely, however, each of us citizens, in view of a tragic fate, has the right to look into the data of the State Security Service for himself. And we also need to regulate this in law, make it legal not to be abused - just as it is regulated in other countries, which have had a complaint, an experience, either with a communist system or with a fascist system, a system of totalitarian ideologies. Access to public data - see, Mr Bajuk wanted to obtain a contract on those phantom salaries of managers. Many of you will say, yes, these are individual data relating to the functioning of an economic society. Not if we are going to take a substantive look at how this state asset transaction process was conducted through the phantom company Skimar, then it is no longer a private economic company or a market economy company in public hands, but a public asset transfer, and this company would have the character of a public economic company, with no sealing before they appear to come through the contract on a day-to-day basis. It is not just a formal matter, it is a matter of how citizens and those civil servants deal with state money and how responsibility is required of them. And what did we get after three weeks? We didn't get anything. People from the country and officials are buzzing. This is worrying, irrespective of this law, we certainly need this law, but on the basis of the democratic principles of this country, that no one in the lease of this country and that public information is available to all, current officials and employees should act as required by ethics and democratic attitudes. Should we now wait for this law to be passed and that we will receive it? And that - I will not say that in some privileged situation - the Member has requested - as a citizen, but with these powers or with this function to ask the Institute of the Member's question in order for citizens to know this, this data. But no, we don't. "Pitschew" relationship! That's worrying. I fully agree with Mr Jakić, a fellow Member, for he has demonstrated and explained the validity of this law very well, systematically and structurally. I have to say, I still support him. But I am even more supportive of the actions that go in this context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u27	Yes, you were mentioned, you have the right to a replica, Comrade Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Mr President, see, here is a dilemma or was exposed by Mr Jerovska and Mr Drobnic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u29	You have to correct the error in their implementation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u30	A mistake in their performance. The main mistake in their performance is to mix two things. Under the legislation already in force, both Mr Bajuk and Mr Drobnic and Mr Jerovšek have the right to the information that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must provide us, in accordance with the legislation in force. However, the legislation that we are considering today gives citizens and citizens the right to receive similar, equal or any other information which the Law on Members, the Government and I do not know what it does not mention. Therefore, the President, of course, would ask that those colleagues and colleagues who go outside the legislation on the table, of course, not talk about the legislation that we are discussing. And, of course, in this context, I cannot avoid the observation that it is in the context of a pre-election campaign, I am not talking about Mr Drobnič, Mr Jerovska, who spoke about the campaign.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u31	I know what you mean, buddy Jakič. In the case of a law, it is always difficult for each of the Presidents to intervene in cases where they justify their arguments. At that time, it is always a temptation for the president to stop such a performance or not; if such implementation takes longer, we will do so. Comrade Shirtz, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much. In our regulation, we have at least ten, at least ten laws talking about basic provisions on the public information, not about how to access information, but about the public information. Article 5, which has been repeatedly mentioned as being too restrictive today, is therefore an article referring to exceptions where the authority of the applicant may refuse access to the information requested, is in fact still very wide and refers and derives from existing legislation based on these ten laws already mentioned. Among them is one law, a law on the media, mentioned already or perhaps not sufficiently taken into account by Mrs Zupan in her presentation when she said - and I think she only needs an additional explanation of her performance - when she said that the journalist would be in a worse situation somewhere because he would have the deadline set by this law to obtain certain information to make it seem too long. In this context, it is also appropriate to add to the information that the Media Act, which we adopted two years ago and which is already being adopted by the entire press industry, already regulates access to public information in the media field. The chapter on public information discusses the need for all representatives of public services to provide real, timely, complete information on issues from their field of work for publishing via the media. It also speaks of public persons having to regulate their way of providing information by means of legal acts, referring to the need for public services to identify the person who will provide such information and even mentions cases where it may be denied the provision of information; namely, when it comes to military, official secret, business secrecy, if it is a breach of the confidentiality of personal data and if it prejudices the judicial or legal proceedings. In this case, if I add to this chapter, in the media law, a public person must, to the extent that he does not provide such information, provide in writing in one day grounds for refusal, to the extent required by the responsible editor, as well as sanctions for infringements of non-derogable information, inaccurate, inaccurate, incomplete or even incomplete, shall be very high, higher than in this law and shall amount to SIT 500,000 and 150 for the natural person and 500 for the legal person. In this sense, I want to say that, in fact, journalists will now be able to use both laws because, after all, this law of the media law does not deregulation, which is logical and right. I suppose they'll decide for themselves when they're being cut down by their cecho law, according to the law governing their operation, and when. They will likely decide to intervene under media law when they actually want to have a very short period of time and an answer will not be put into a situation where they can wait 20 or 30 days for an answer, as required by this law. In this sense, it seems to me that they have the support they need. Perhaps it would be valid to complement it in a cohesive sense when it comes to a world that is supposed to monitor the functioning and the provision of public information when another ministry or other service that is responsible for this work could enter. Surely, however, all the more problems with Article 7 will have to be faced when a catalogue of public information is to be defined, and the services, officials responsible for the provision of public information will certainly be very burdensome in all public services, because I fear that procedures, depending on what information is and what kind of advice is, will be very mixed and these services will actually gain a lot of responsibility or a lot of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u33	Does the government want to respond to the debate of MEPs and Members? Please, Dr. Gantar, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u34	For a little while. I think that the Minister and I have been pleased to accompany the debate as well as support for the law. I could certainly say a few brief comments I'd like to make next. For the first time, as regards the Aarhus Convention, certain issues relating to the public are addressed, but of course they cannot replace its ratification and specific mechanism in the Convention. Secondly, as it is said, the law does not interfere with the media law. The explanation was given by Mrs Shirca, a very good one. I think it is the general position of the National Assembly, so we have understood that the judiciary must also be included in the law, of course as a judicial administration, but not, of course, in the sense of the judicial proceedings themselves, which are governed by the law itself, that is, this field legislation. Several proposals from the Peace Institute or NGOs, the legal centre would certainly improve and certainly improve the text of the law, and some I think there is a need for a substantive debate on the committee. As regards exceptions in specific laws, perhaps with a slightly different motivation, many in the government also consider that in certain field laws it is necessary to check whether such a way of protecting certain data is still necessary or not. Of course, this is not the subject of this law. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u35	Anything you'd like to add, Minister of the Interior? [[No, no, ……]] Then I'll close the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will vote at 5 p.m. and 30 minutes in accordance with the meeting's timetable. Until this time, I'm breaking this agenda. The National Assembly will continue its debate on agenda item 21 at 11 a.m. and 15 minutes. That's in a good minute. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u36	We're moving to 21. On the day-to-day basis, this is in line with the first phase of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the spatial compositions of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia. The debate on this proposal will take up to 12 noon and 15 minutes. The total time of the debate is 1 hour. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. Her representative, this is Minister Mag. Digger, I give you my word for further explanation. You have five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Messengers and Members, nice greetings! In fact, the decree is the last decree to amend and supplement the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan that this country has now had for almost 20 years. Just yesterday, a law on the regulation of space was adopted which will enter into force with effect from 1 January and provides for a new document. This document will no longer be called the Social Plan, but will be called the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia. Well, despite the fact that we expect it to be adopted already in the summer of next year, if all is fortunately here in Parliament, we have been in time with some of the necessary accommodations of individual facilities in the space that, if we want to do so, require a change in existing ones, let me say something about the State Spatial Plan and not the long-term and medium-term social plan. We propose three changes. The first is the possibility of placing wind power plants in the space. According to the existing spatial plan, areas of all potential power plants must be drawn in the State Spatial Plan, in accordance with existing rules, regardless of whether they are windy or otherwise exceeding the power of 10 megawatts. Of course, right now we don't know the exact potential location. The country has never gone to a wind level measure to know exactly where to draw it; it is not the task of the state, after all, that is the task of potential private investors. That is why we have identified an area that is, according to the professional basis, the most suitable for wind energy use, and that is, if I may say simply, a larger part of Primorska. In short, within Slovenia is an area suitable for commercial use of wind energy, i.e. for larger fields of wind power plants, and this area is called the main part of Primorska. Inside it, we have identified locations that are more suitable and locations that are less suitable, as well as locations that are totally inappropriate, according to other requirements for the protection of such forests, in accordance with the Forest Act, where the conservation forest, the proposed natural values, in accordance with the Nature Conservation Act, protected cultural and historical areas, and so on. Another amendment to the State Spatial Plan is the proposed installation of the Aveča hydroelectric power plant. Slovenia urgently needs energy, conical electricity, this is the one that can be obtained so much in a minute if you need it, and of course it is also the most expensive. In Slovenia we do not even have such hydropower plants, but we have a gas thermoelectric power plant in Brest that serves these needs. This type of hydroelectric power plant is significantly cheaper than gas. A new power plant Moste pri Bled was designed for this purpose, but since the municipality of Bled adopted a decree protecting a particular area as an area of protected nature, and through this we could not go, we had to look for another location. And this other location, which is also naturally totally indisputable, is above the Avčany above the Sočko valley, where it is envisaged that the water would be drained from an already existing lake, at night with cheaper electricity up and up, when the need for conical electricity is also released onto the turbine and thus obtained even more hydroelectric energy for the needs of the spikes. The third proposal, however, was simply to lay down rules for the placement of mobile telephone repeaters or telephone facilities, which, when this social plan was made almost 20 years ago, of course there were no such rules, since there was no mobile phone, and we need time to do so by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The sending groups have the following time frames: SDS 15 minutes, ZLSD 5, SLS 10, Nova Slovenija 10, SNS 10, SMS 5 minutes and government at the end of 3 minutes. First, the position of the ZLSD Group will be presented by colleague Aurelio Juri. After him, colleague Franz Sušnik, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please, mate Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you, President. Good-bye! The United Nations Group supports and welcomes the proposal for a decree, in particular because it introduces the use of wind energy into the spatial basis of national energy. And if you'll allow me to exclaim, at last! I would like to remind you, colleagues and colleagues of the government, that we have been alerting our party for a long time after the launch of the use of so-called alternative renewable and co-natural resources. We agree with the reasons in question, so we would not repeat here what all this choice means for the visa to fulfil the Kyoto Protocol obligations or for the imperative to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and so on. We would like to see more of the estimated or not only Primorska in areas of interest for this type of energy, but it is not the government’s fault, but Slovenia’s climate. We want the first wind power plants to be seen as soon as possible in motion or in motion, so, of course, we will not hesitate with our vote to adopt the decree. We warn, however, that this is our main observation and concern that, unless the applicant ensures that the conditions for launching this project will be easier, less stringent, more feasible or, unless a number of important bodies are eliminated in relation to the issue of other users of the space, and in particular with the so-called protection of the natural and cultural values of the state importance, the great fans or windmills we see when we travel through Europe, we will not be able to see for much longer. We underline the conclusion in the explanatory statement that the efficiency of wind power plants depends on the appropriateness of the location, which is conditioned mainly by sufficient fraud, and that when searching for suitable locations for their installation, wind potential is exclusion criteria. However, the definition of the appropriateness of space is quite firmly linked to the relationship between its attractiveness, namely, fraud and vulnerability, in particular because of the preservation of the so-called biodiversity or the protection of natural and cultural values. We can't argue with that. We note, however, that there are and will be situations where one of the criteria will almost necessarily need to be subordinated to another, and let us not forget that we have no influence on the direction, quantity and power of the wind. However, we have it to classify and define categories of natural and cultural values. In short, if you'll allow me a little bit of banality. If it is necessary to sacrifice a bird's nest in order to obtain an adequate amount of energy from these plants, talk about the appropriate amount, keep in mind the amount of desired and economically justified quantity, we will have to squeeze our teeth and do so in time or in time not only the nest we wanted to protect, but many others will remain empty. It would be good if even the most zealous naturalists were aware of this, as we have such awareness of the witness, for example, we welcome this, with the project of a network of Sava power plants, which will certainly bury some kind of biotope. Climate change due to the unwise use of fossil fuels is unfortunately inexcusable. Worse still, what was happening in the summers in Europe and elsewhere in the world shows, of course, that it is happening at a pace that even the most unpredicted sights have not predicted and that it is becoming dramatic. Finally, Mr Minister, allow me to convey to you the surprise and disillusionment of a place or people there - it is not so negligible of course how the place is to be defined, given the more frequent trend on such occasions - on the fact that you are your spring assessment of the appropriateness of the location there, which you declared to be even one of the most interesting, and which was already included in the social plan, I am talking about Golic, you know, in the fall cancel. I'm supposed to be, quote your words, "quite inappropriate." If this location falls away, some others, of course, have been determined, there remains only a Coconut in the game, and you know there is so little space there to overinterest [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] there are no windmills which will also be economically eligible. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Comrade Yuri. I now invite my fellow Sušnik to the floor. He will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Then I invite my colleague Jelinčič to speak, even though I do not see him again in the hall. Please, Comrade Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! In the Socialist Party Group we welcome and agree with the necessity of amending the decree on changes and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia. The urgency is mainly in the part that deals with mobile telephony devices. We are of the opinion that we are late for at least ten years or probably several years and that with the timely regulation of this problem we would avoid the chaotic state that we are witnessing in the area of the installation and construction of these devices throughout Slovenia. It would be avoided without a number of conflicts, as well as situations such as the fact that two separate stations are located on two separate facilities, in the cramped settlements defined for the recreation of children, where kindergartens where schools are located. That is why I think it is imperative that this is the last time that we do this and expect that even in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, the installation of these devices, which have a foreign product, will also be given special attention to certain types of radiation pollution. But we are pleased that, for the first time in the state plan, I will say, we are also meeting with energy, the use of wind energy as one of the renewable energy sources. However, we think that the definition of only one part of Slovenia is narrow, too fast, that this definition, even as far as microlocations are concerned, is incomprehensible, given that, according to some behaviours, the area of Nanos and the lower part of the Vipava Valley should be excluded in this decree, although we know that we even have areas in this area that do not have regulated electricity supply. So I think it would suggest that from this point of view, once again, as has already been said, the locations that are now excluded from this decree. We are also of the opinion that it does not show that the use of wind energy is limited only to the area of Primorska. Examples from neighbouring Austria show where they are currently working intensively on the use of wind energy in high-mountain areas, that is to say on the mountain ranges that are in the vicinity of our Karavank, Pohorje and some others, that it is not only the Primorska area that is suitable for wind energy use and it would also suggest that we turn to our northern neighbours in this regard. On the contrary, I ask how to respond to the expected private initiative that, for example, in the Pohorje area, Rogle comes an investor who would like to build a wind power of 10 megawatts, for which conditions are likely to exist. We have no comments on the placement of the Aveča hydroelectric power plant in this spatial state plan. To conclude, however, it might also be an initiative. Wind use is certainly one of the key steps in the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol; it is a key step forward in the use of renewable resources. We would suggest that the spatial development strategy of Slovenia also define, for example, areas that are suitable for the use of biomass as a renewable energy source, because this way, I am sure, could reduce procedures or simplify procedures necessary for the construction of boilers or combustion plants for the use of such energy. I think it would be good and useful to do that. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Comrade Sušnik. My colleague Jelinčič is not here, so I invite my colleague Bozič to the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. The views of the parliamentary groups will be concluded by colleague Vnučec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much, President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers! Even in our party, the Slovenian People's Party, in our parliamentary group, we are pleased with the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia. In considering this decision, I also took a little look at the decision issued on 19 February 1999 in the Official Journal. 11 on page 946. Almost everything is listed in point (c), which today is a proposal, with the difference that we added water and the sun. In Slovenia, too little, so far we are underexploiting renewable energy sources. I have often criticized myself, and today I will say, too little enthusiasm is for the construction of small power plants, not for investors, there is no more permission for concessions. In doing so, I would like to say that for all these buildings that will be built on the basis of these energies, this law also describes what should be done in addition - that the social acceptability of building energy infrastructure and the potential for taking into account the interests of local communities and the wider public interest must be verified. In our country, I think we have little regard for the interests of local communities. I'd like to say a few more words about the hydroelectric Sheep, which will build up by pumping water into the higher lying places. I'm very excited about this plan. Last year I visited or was in the Austrian mountains, and I saw such a power plant in Malta. And I pictured why in Slovenia, which has plenty of water in the valley, we wouldn't pump something into the hill for a time when we would need it most. That is why I think that this example is that we will pump water into higher-lying sites in the Avča region, perhaps also the beginning of a different thinking and better use of water, where no hydroelectric power plant will destroy good agricultural land in the plain. In telecommunications, I would trip a little bit, when it says, "The following orientations and conditions must be taken into account in the planning of mobile telephony facilities and facilities." This is the sixth indent on page 26, where it says: "In protected areas of nature, other than narrow protected areas of nature, where buildings and mobile telephone devices are not placed, in areas intended for insurance, in areas of natural value and in ecologically important areas should be affected only exceptionally and in a manner that does not alter the characteristics for which the area has acquired this status." I mean Triglav National Park. Last year, I was at the top of Krna all day, and I failed to establish any telephone connection with the plain or the house I was looking at. So, I think the Triglav National Park, our Alps, where there's a lot of mountain accidents, should have the opportunity to call with mobile phones in case of an accident. We cannot be engrossed in protection, just as Pythagoras was in his peas. But I also have a point that I think Mr. Minister is missing. On the same page, 946, the Official Journal No) states: "The economy must be taken into account, which is determined in particular by the internal rate of return on investment. Returns of investment in the form of community and user benefits, together with indirect effects and benefits on networks, realisation of proposals in terms of real technological capacity to build, the amount of costs of investment in operation and maintenance, the provision of gradual or phased construction in relation to energy needs and economic opportunities and, lastly, the planning and construction of infrastructure systems with the lowest possible consumption or loss of energy." I think that this, as well as the preamble to paragraph 301.22, on economics no longer falls within the laws we are now adopting, or in our time. As I have already said, in our Group of Members, we are pleased that the proposal for this decree has come to light and we will, at least I hope, support it with what we have added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much, buddy Christmas. My colleague Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia. This will exhaust the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members. The next one who gets the word will be Comrade Mamić. Please, colleague Grandchild, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, the other members of the Ministry! In the Party of Youth of Slovenia we support the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 1986-2000 which regulates the design of the state energy network and the criteria and conditions for placing mobile telephony facilities and devices in space. In the Youth Party, we believe that the development and use of wind use for energy needs to be captured in Slovenia. The fact is that the use of wind for energy purposes in Europe and in the world is becoming increasingly important. The very progress of this technology, however, allows for the rapid development of the use of this important renewable resource. The key advantages of wind energy use are seen mainly in environmental and economic impacts and in a major contribution to a cleaner environment. As the applicant has stated, by building wind power plants we will also make a significant contribution to the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol obligations, by which we have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8%, according to the 1986 starting year. As the proposal for amendments and the completion of spatial components of the long-term and medium-term plan of the Republic of Slovenia is prepared on the basis of the results of the prepared professional foundations and identifies the areas suitable for the study of the construction and construction of wind power plants, we expect that the actual locations of the wind power plants will be, in particular, where the most protected natural and natural goods will be created. Of course, the opinion of local communities, which know the appropriateness of these areas, is crucial in determining more precise locations for the establishment of wind power plants. In the Youth Party we also support proposed changes and additions to spatial components from 1986 to 2000, which relate to orientations for placing mobile telephone facilities and devices in space. We are convinced that this document also needs to capture the extraordinary development of mobile telecommunications in recent years. In our view, the spatial components of the plan are most important to establish precise criteria for establishing a basic spatial framework for the installation of mobile telephony facilities and priority areas for the coverage of Slovenian space with a mobile telephony signal. As I said before, we will support the motion for a decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u46	We have thus exhausted the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First of all, I invite my colleague Mamić, my colleague Kelemino, to the floor. Comrade Mamić, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Greetings to all present! I am pleased that today we can talk about this exploitation of natural life for energy purposes. Of course, different questions are raised when such decisions are made, especially in an ecological sense, which is also what this proposal contains. With regard to wind exploitation - as a resident of Primorska, I know this climate well, with a vipavska storm and a karst storm, because we all know it. We discussed this problem in the Vipavska Valley quite a while ago, not only about the profits offered by the storm, but also professionally. I understand the nature of the guards, but I believe that windmills would not endanger the existence of birds as much as they say that all birds would die, kill them and so on. If we're talking about birds, then we shouldn't be working the highway at all, because that's essentially more birds dying than it would be in the case of windmills. I give special emphasis to the use of biomass. In any case, I will tell you in advance, I support this proposal with complete content. I am giving particular emphasis to the use of biomass because so far nothing has been done in this area and not much has been talked about. We all know that Slovenia is growing steadily. If we don't do something, we'll have a jungle around town. Why around town? The Slovenian villages are empty and will then become one jungle itself. Because of centralism, which we also know. Using biomass will avoid this problem. Towards a smart policy of stimulation, we would hire so many people from rural areas and reduce imports of expensive oil derivatives. That is to say, we would hire those people who live in those, I speak again in quotes, jungles, only these people need to be stimulated, or that they should be untaxed for so long or whatever. Basically, stimulation is essential here. Now with all that we've heard today, what the representatives of the parliamentary groups have said, which I've been familiar with for a long time with these problems, we're asking a very strong question: What have we been waiting for? Has this problem now arisen? No, no, no. Hasn't the government been aware of this before, let's say, since 1991? Will it, despite this proposal, if we support it - and I think we will support it and it is right to support it - what has moved it? I would like to hear, if possible today, at least a flat-rate answer to this question because I am very interested. So let's do something because it's about time we did something here, especially thinking about biomass, that there won't be just another paper in the drawer that maybe someone will pull and look at in a few years, you said," it's interesting, we'll take into account, and we'll talk about it, I'll make another suggestion," and so on. Because there's something to conclude and fight and I don't know what else and support the amendments, to reject and so on and that nothing happens, then we're just here to say something empty. So, work, if not done, is the same as in Christianity we say that prayer without work is no religion. I place my trust on the heart and on the soul of our government to do something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Comrade Mamić. I don't see Comrade Kelemina in the National Assembly, nor does my colleague Jelinčič. That's why my colleague Franci Rokavec is here. You have the floor if you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr. Secretary! Perhaps briefly to this point or the proposed amendment of the decision of the social plan of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, I think that the chapter in Article 3 is very important, but once again, this has already been said many times, very late. A lot of trouble and a lot of trouble was already on the ground. And it's a shame that the solution to mobile phones has not come into the social plan in previous changes. It would also be possible to touch concessions for hydroelectric power plants. It's only spoken in Article 2. This has already been resolved in other solutions to the existing social plan. More here is the question of how to take this design, which is planned, into practice. In fact, I think that in this area and in this segment, too much has been going on in our country for years and years to allow for too much private initiative and the use of possible electricity in the establishment of smaller hydropower plants and, of course, private investment in this area. Because this is also the case, I am also taking this initiative again, that much more needs to be done in this area. And there's something else. This has also been said in your opening statement, we urgently need a new development plan of the Republic of Slovenia, because also with the legislation adopted, the current way of designing planned solutions has been overtaken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Is there anything else he wants to add to the Christmas buddy? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Kopach asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. I hope that I will have 3 minutes to respond to the many very good proposals I have heard in this debate. Let me try to comment on them briefly. First of all, as regards Mr Sušnik's debate and wind power plants. When we prepared this change in the components of the long-term and medium-term social plan, we had to follow the procedure envisaged by the existing law. This procedure says we have to have professional starting points. We have one study about the wind in Slovenia, and one that is already a few years old says that the wind for electricity use is not enough, but if it is already there, it is most in Primorska. And of course this location is defined. This was our professional basis; we simply need to use something as a professional basis. That's all we could rely on. And that's why there's a map in front of you like it is. However, I very much agree with you, indeed, and support this debate, which you have set out or this initiative, which you have set out in order to actually need, perhaps even in the form of your amendment, to extend the potential of building windfields, fields of wind power plants in other areas of Slovenia, if that makes it possible. Why is that important? Because time is running and technology is developing, and when this study was done, the wind power plants were the most capable, I don't know, one megawatt and then it didn't pay off today are the most powerful one and a half megawatt, and they're already going towards two and maybe in five years we'll know a lot more and it's going to be possible to take advantage of the wind a lot around Slovenia, not just in Primorske. That is why, of course, I agree that this should be extended. But understand me as a representative of the government that we couldn't involve this because we didn't have such a professional basis. However, if we wanted to have such a professional basis, we should have a study done, and of course it would take a year, and we would not have these changes before us. Members in this case can afford more than the government. I propose an even more detailed discussion on this subject, of course, before the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. Secondly, you mentioned that it would suggest directing the possible setting of mobile phone antennas to a single common drug. I think it's an example of the Vransky case where these two companies, Simobil and Mobile, have these two. We went to look at this with an inspection, we found that one of these two didn't have a building permit, is a black construction, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] We've triggered-- [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u52	You have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you - we have initiated the appropriate procedures, but Article 2 of this chapter proposed, the second indent says: "The objects and devices of mobile phones are placed in space by merging into existing or planned infrastructure corridors and devices." That's the direction now. So far, there has been no such direction. Therefore, it was theoretical, if the application was complete, to grant a building permit for both locations. After that, if we have this direction, we can say no, let's not, despite the fact that the role is perfect. Because there's already another antenna there, and you can sit there, because by the telecommunications law, they have to give each other space on the same pillar. And let me also say that this very week I signed a sub-legislative act that allows the installation of mobile telephony antennas also on existing power remotes and poles where electricity flows, if of course static allows it. Well, the third question you started, I don't know exactly who, it was a matter of biomass. The additional definition of the potential exploitation of biomass in a spatial act does not help to speed up procedures, because we do not need to or, at the same time, it would be inappropriate to draw into a state spatial plan, I don't know, some large thermal power plant on biomass - this is the only intervention that we might need in a state spatial plan. Otherwise, neither the textual nor the cartographic part of the State Spatial Plan will help. This is supported by the building law, for example, which is also in the procedure. This is supported by a law on space regulation, to facilitate planning of this in space rather than a state spatial plan, so that this may be more of a misunderstanding. However, I agree, of course, that the promotion of biomass use should be accelerated.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u54	Anything else?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u55	I think I answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Minister Digach. We've got a few minutes left. Anyone else want a word before this point expires? [[Nobody.]] Okay. Then I'll break this point. On the proposal to decide that the motion for a resolution is appropriate for further consideration, we will vote today at 5.30 p.m. in accordance with the meeting's timing. Until then, this agenda item has been suspended. In a good 15 minutes we will start the 26th item of the agenda, this is the hearing of the 7th periodic report of the Ombudsman in 2001. The debate will take 3 hours and 20 minutes. It will begin, as it was said, at 12:15 p.m. and end at 3:35 p.m. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u57	Respected and respected! We're moving on to 26. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIONS 7. REPRESENTATIVE REPORT OF THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE YEAR 2001 The 7th regular report was presented by the Ombudsman for consideration, whom I welcome very well with his colleagues. Also a nice greeting to the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give my word to the Ombudsman for further explanation of the proposed report. Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, as many of you as you are here, we have been honored by the Minister and the other representatives of the government and the public. I know you've all read exactly the 7th periodic report of the Ombudsman, so I will try to be brief in this introduction. First of all, I must thank you for the amended Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at a point which requires the National Assembly to consider the Ombudsman's report at the autumn session. This also formally gives human rights the weight they must have in every modern society. I would also like to thank the Government for its rapid response to the report, as it has made its own comments very quickly and has thus shown a serious attitude towards addressing the pressing social problems. The government immediately analysed the findings of the report, wrote its opinion on them, and also dedicated one of its meetings to which the Ombudsman invited them. Unfortunately, however, this government opinion has some shortcomings. The first is that the opinion is not prepared uniformly for all its parts, which reinforces the criticism that the government is still not acting uniformly, but rather as a collection of individual sources. In doing so, I note that some parts of the report are not mentioned at all and others are dealt with disproportionately in detail; in some cases, descriptions of arrangements and data that are not disputed or not essential are repeated and other important problems are leaked. Thus, there is no definition in the opinion of the issue of sub-legislative acts as described in the report, which we believe is one of the most important problems of human rights violations. In this regard, it might be worth noting that the most inadequacies are the definitions on those issues that concern several sources. Perhaps I could agree that there is a lack of a comprehensive view of the government as a whole and not just as individual ministries on how the government sees the state of human rights as shown in the report and what it will do most to improve the situation. First, I would like to give a few general words on the report. In last year's debate in the National Assembly, several proposals were made to improve the report. We took most of it into account, but some we couldn't. Among other things, it was proposed that the report should be shorter. This is also our desire, but the reality is more difficult. Since violations occur in many different areas, it is difficult to narrow them down to a common denominator and remain specific enough. There are many kinds of problems. The purpose of the report is also education. The analysis of individual infringements should help the perpetrators to correct these errors and provide advice to citizens on how to behave in similar cases. On the other hand, it is very difficult to make a choice of those violations that could be released from the report; any infringement is serious for an individual and we are difficult to decide which to release and which to include in the report. This year's report is therefore still extensive. Anyone who wants it can get it free of charge, and it is also available on the Internet, on our website. As one of the tasks of the Ombudsman is also to get to know and raise people's self-awareness in this area, we will also be more active in the future with information, especially for young people, and not only with the report. Let me also add a few words about the way the Ombudsman works, as there is often misunderstanding or at least misunderstandings. I have heard several times that our report is too critical and that sometimes too harsh reactions block communication. Let me quote a comment on Article 59 of the Constitution, which defines the work of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman is not part of the mechanism of authority, but rather an anti-authority, since by his action he restricts its will in interfering with human rights and fundamental freedoms. This position of the counter-area determines the level of the guardian's criticalness. And I have to admit, I intimately think we're still a little too critical. This impression is particularly confirmed by our daily contacts with people lost in the frequent entanglement of government bicycles, the insensitiveness of officials, the interests of power and power, often flawed rules and indecisiveness, or at least the lack of interest of state institutions that act too slowly and are too weak to protect weak individuals. I would like to give a brief summary of some of the most important reasons for the violations. First, the state's unoptimal organisation. A more thorough examination and a need for correction would require the following questions: ensuring coordination of work between the departments and within the departments, territorial organisation of administration and a weak network of local self-government, unimaginable de-evaluation of state functions and the transfer of public powers to housing associations. The following are the lack of signatures, the creation of a legal system following the example of other countries, taking into account our specificities and the urgency of the legislative work, the adoption of laws without thorough analysis, the adoption of laws without or with an unrealistic assessment of the financial and other consequences, as well as the possibility of implementation within certain deadlines. There is often a change of rules, even before they are implemented. Errors in the decision-making, preparation and issuance of sub-legislative rules, too many instances of administrative and some other matters do not increase legal certainty, the incomplete implementation of regulations as a third point. The role of ministries in ensuring proper, uniform and effective implementation is too small. There are no timely, often no timely substantive and organisational instructions. Infringement of the legal time limits for decision-making has already become an everyday matter, and there are no sanctions. I stress only one very pressing problem - the marriage deadline of two months for the issue and service of decision-making by legal authorities at the first stage, which ensures the protection of the benefit of children when, for example, the process of regulating the rights to personal contact is very often violated and this leads to many even public traumas, cases and so on. It appears that the State has apparently accepted such violations of the deadline set in the interests of the children in the procedure. Next. There is not always sufficient restrictive interpretation of the admissibility of human rights interventions and, on the other hand, the interpretations of the provisions on individual rights are narrowing. An individual and a country are dealt with on an ad hoc basis. The professional competence of the staff is insufficient, as shown by the errors in the conduct of procedures and acts issued. The relationship between civil servants and customers is often problematic. The work of inspections is ineffective, and often only observers who write records and decisions that no one, in particular the violators, does not take into account. The effects of other control bodies - the Court of Auditors, the official audit of orders and so on - are too small. There is insufficient control of the legality and financial functioning of municipalities. Point four. In particular, I would stress a number of laws relevant to the protection of human rights that have not yet been adopted: the Law on Mental Health, the law governing the right to obtain information of a public nature, the amendment of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly ordered by the Constitutional Court. As a fifth time, the legislator and the government often do not respond in time to the findings of the Constitutional Court on the non-compliance of laws with the Constitution. Finally, there is not yet a right guaranteed - not finally, but finally, what I am going to say here, or else these points can be much more - to judicial protection without undue delay. The multi-annual wait for the first action to be brought for the main hearing in fair terms, in particular before certain district courts, is still almost a rule. In the event of a swift trial, it is also necessary to stress the right to a high-quality judicial decision, which is not always guaranteed. Let me finish with a few words about future work. In the future, it is essential to ensure greater responsibility of the state authorities for respect for legality and to support efforts for their rational organisation. Too easy to adopt laws that cannot be implemented or that are not subject to a sub-law; in short, they do not work as they should. The social integration of society must also be taken into account in the legal aspect of state regulation, since Slovenia is a legal and social state under the Constitution. Since it is often not as much a direct violation of rights as a failure to ensure the conditions for their realization, citizens should be encouraged to take a more active approach to the exercise of their rights. In particular areas, it is also necessary to adopt rules to ensure effective complaint trails. I cannot help but point out that there is too little tolerance to be different in society, so we need to start by actively learning and understanding the difference. There is also hidden discrimination and a lack of will to eliminate it. Therefore, I propose to the National Assembly that it instructs the Government to draw up a strategy for anti-discrimination policy, in which production should also include individual offices whose existence is also aimed at these issues, such as the Office for Religious Communities, the Office for Persons with Disabilities and the Sick, for Nationality, Youth and so on. We urgently need such a strategy alone, and our integration into the European Union will also require it. We also offer help with our knowledge, and it is up to you to add to it the political will and other resources that are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The 7th Regular Report was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy as the parent working body. I ask the member of the committee to present the Committee's report. Mrs. Maja Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Ombudsman, distinguished colleagues, members of the government, respectable assembly! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, as its mother’s working body, reviewed the seventh regular annual report of the Ombudsman in 2001 at its 27th regular session on 8.11.2002, also taking note of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the review of the legislative acts drawn up by the legal and legal service, which are acts to be brought into line with the Constitution on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court - and the reply of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this material, the letter of the Committee on the Economy and the letter of the Ministry of Health. Mr Matjaž Hanžek, Ombudsman, made the opening statement and assessed the report as an important positive move at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the reports on the implementation of the decisions of the National Assembly adopted at the time of hearing the fifth and sixth reports of the Ombudsman. He further briefed the members of the Committee on some essential information on the work of the Ombudsman, in particular regarding possible follow-up, which was not directly linked to the annual report. In accordance with the conclusions adopted by the National Assembly last year, the Ombudsman’s fifth and sixth periodic annual report extended the scope of the Ombudsman’s work on children’s rights and also received a new mandate as an independent data protection institution, which also appears in the Office. In particular, he highlighted the issue of the concept of the protection of human rights, namely: whether Slovenia needs a larger number of guardians who will specialize in different areas, or whether the concept of the Ombudsman should remain in force so far with quite broad powers. He further pointed out that a number of government offices in their areas should also deal more with the protection of human rights, but notes that most do not have an adequate concept of anti-discrimination, and therefore calls for the European Union's guidelines to be followed by the concept of anti-discrimination policy. Mr Hanžek further pointed out that last year the conclusions of the National Assembly, adopted at the time of the consideration of the fifth and sixth periodic report of the Ombudsman, were only partially realized. The main problem remains judicial proceedings, which, due to their longevity, also constitute injustice and unfairness, often resulting in a number of other infringements. The Ombudsman further drew attention to the poor preparation of legal proposals and to the lack or delay of sub-legislative acts, which prevented the implementation of laws in practice. It remains an important relation to the decisions of the Constitutional Court and therefore calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to forward to the National Assembly in due time the relevant amendments to the laws or other acts to be repealed by a decision of the Constitutional Court of found non-compliance. The Ombudsman then drew attention to some specific comments, such as the length of the proceedings or the backlog in the decision on the complaint at the Ministry of Environment and Space, and often the delays are also present at the Ministry of Labour. In the further discussion that the members of the Committee had had, it was stressed that the Ombudsman's report should be taken seriously as a reminder of the inadequate management of many areas of our public and social life. In general, it has been assessed that the Ombudsman’s authority is being strengthened, as it represents the Ombudsman’s Institute of Human Rights, the instrument by which the individual is given the opportunity to point out, in contact with the State authorities, that not everything has been carried out in the proper and specific conduct of the Authority as it should be. The Ombudsman’s annual routine of reporting suggests that things are changing in a number of areas for the better. Of course, much effort will have to be made to address all shortcomings in individual segments of social life. If I conclude quickly, the Committee has decided that the Committee on Internal Policy has considered the 7th Annual Report of the Ombudsman in 2001 and, on the basis of the accompanying materials and discussions at the meeting of the Committee, has set out the text of the proposal for a recommendation proposed to the National Assembly. The proposal for a recommendation consists of five parts and concerns five areas, namely legal certainty in the country, restrictions on personal freedom, judicial proceedings, police procedures and administrative matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. On behalf of the government, he will present the opinion to us. Ivan Bizjak, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u62	Madam Vice-President, the Honourable Lord of the Ombudsman, the Deputy Guardian, the Honourable Member and Members of Parliament! I would like to briefly present what the Government has forwarded to this assembly in response to the 7th report of the Ombudsman, in particular the opinion of the Government and also the report on the implementation of the decisions adopted so far on the consideration of the Ombudsman's annual report. First of all, I would like to point out that the government's response shows its serious awareness that the problems raised by the Ombudsman in his annual report are serious that he is taking this issue seriously; and secondly, he is aware that the work for respect for human rights and the exercise of these rights is never finished. Certainly there is neither the time nor the possibility of presenting in detail the government's opinion on individual issues. However, since it is structured in the same way as the Ombudsman's structured report, I think you can quickly determine to what extent the Government has already followed certain findings of the Ombudsman's shortcomings in particular areas, irregularities and to what extent it has followed the Ombudsman's proposals and recommendations. Thus, the Government's opinion on individual problems either provides an explanation of the problems, a more detailed description of what has already been done, or of the measures envisaged, including the time frame for the implementation of these measures to resolve individual problems, or a description of the activity still under way to address shortcomings and irregularities, or information on how the individual problems have been resolved. Of course, this depends on the complexity of the problem in the report, so that the approaches to responding to individual problems are, understandably, slightly different. The same applies to the enforcement report. In general, we can say that most of the decisions adopted by this National Assembly have been carried out or, at least to a large extent, has been made; whether they have been carried out properly - you, honourable Members and Members will also decide on this. And I think that this is precisely why the Ombudsman's report is an extremely important dialogue between the Ombudsman's institution, the Government and the National Assembly, of course, primarily in the interest of those to whom the report relates, i.e. individuals who face various problems. I would not even like to assess the government's response to the criticisms that have already been expressed here, that this report is therefore too small and that it sometimes gives little consideration to the government as a whole to the problems. I think it is precisely the purpose of the debate in the National Assembly to assess whether governance as a whole responds fully and appropriately to problems. However, I can argue that there has been quite a bit of mutual coordination between the departments in the preparation of this opinion, where there have been problems involving several sources. Whether this response has really been sufficiently coordinated - this can also be the subject of this debate. In particular, let me conclude by believing that this debate will also be an important further dialogue on which problems are most difficult, which problems are not adequately addressed. Therefore, we would also like to continue this dialogue with the Government by taking very seriously the recommendations that the National Assembly will adopt after today's consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Just to remind you of the time planned for the parliamentary group: LDS 25 minutes, SDS 30, United List 15, SLS 20, Nova Slovenija 40, DeSUS 10, SNS 10, Applicant 10 and Government 15 minutes. First of all, Mr. Franz Lenko has the floor to present the views of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Ombudsman with fellow Members, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellow Members and Fellow Members. Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners are pleased with the provisions of the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which set out the ratios of the National Assembly to the Ombudsman of Human Rights, because we believe that this chapter of the Rules of Procedure contributes significantly to ensuring a better evaluation of the role of the Ombudsman in the system of state regulation, thereby giving greater attention to the area of human rights and fundamental freedoms and, hopefully, more effective treatment. We have carefully examined the regular and special report of the Ombudsman in the pensioner's client. We have paid particular attention to the part of the reports relating to the older generation, as well as to other problems that the Ombudsman is pointing out, we have not neglected. First of all, we would like to focus on the subject when the Ombudsman summarizes it in a special report, the problem of renters of denationalised apartments. We know that it will be possible to discuss this more extensively with the adoption of housing law, but it is essential that we talk about this today. We are aware that the tenants of denationalised dwellings are concerned with a complex legal and economic issue, which also shows that in 11 years we have not found a satisfactory solution to the conflict of interests and relations between tenants and owners of denationalised apartments. However, this does not remove the State's obligation to seek new, more satisfactory proposals to resolve the conflict itself which it has created. It is logical for us to fully support the efforts of those who are fighting for a just cause, these are tenants of nationalised dwellings. Among them are many older people who have lived in such apartments for many years. We will therefore insist on such legal solutions as will ensure that the tenants of denationalised dwellings have equal rights compared with those of the holders of housing rights who have had the opportunity to buy former social housing on favourable terms and thus their inequality. We cannot allow denationalisation and housing reform to create new injustices. We fully support the Ombudsman's solutions in the report. In addition, all of our concerns about the proposal for a new housing law will be announced when the law is under consideration. As a negative fact, we are assessing an increase in complaints in the field of healthcare rights, which the Ombudsman has been alerting for several years. The rights deriving from this concern a large number of our citizens, including a large number of older people, who are certainly entitled to be properly enforced. In addition to the violations mentioned by the Ombudsman, in recent times it is also possible to detect the misleading of patients with academic titles, which, in fact, does not belong to the person who is presented with him, because in this way a number of patients, who are seeking medical assistance, are in fact injured by the alleged doctor; we appeal to the Government or the Medical Chamber to tighten the supervision that these violations will no longer occur. However, we also wish to consider as soon as possible the amendment of health legislation, which we hope will bring positive changes. The current problem that we see from the perspective of the pensioner's party is also the situation in the area of social protection. Poverty, unemployment, and so on, tell us that despite the great predictions and the indicators that encourage us, not all are affected. It is worrisome that the construction of social housing does not reach what is envisaged, which in the long term means a deterioration. Many, due to the conditions of the banks - here we think of the older generation, as well as the younger generation - can't get credit to get a suitable apartment in this way. The letter on the intention to cooperate in the provision of housing and to encourage cheaper and better construction, which is or is intended to be signed with certain congregations, should be signed in future with all municipalities where the need arises so as not to discriminate between citizens of different municipalities. It is of concern that there is an irregular issue of sub-laws which are a prerequisite for the implementation of a specific law, as this actually means non-execution by law of recognised rights and obligations. The lack or irreconcilability of the guardian's sub-laws also identifies pension and disability insurance, which makes it impossible for a citizen to exercise the right he expects. However, the urgency of the administrative authorities puts the law of recognised rights into the future for an indefinite period of time. In the government's opinion, we lack proposals for more concrete measures to address the problems. Although the number of initiatives relating to the issue of judicial backlogs has decreased, which is commendable, we believe that every citizen needs to be provided with judicial protection without delay. The effectiveness of the judiciary contributes significantly to the functioning of the rule of law, and we believe that if the measures to reduce judicial backlogs so far are not effective enough, better needs to be found. We support the Ombudsman's proposal to set up a special body that will address ethnically controversial behaviour of media players within the media and publishing associations in public cooperation. Infringements of personal rights, especially by publishing the full name or other information of the alleged offender, from which it can be concluded that the person concerned is particularly problematic for juvenile suspects. We believe that a minor has an identity publication, even though before the formal initiation of the procedure or even more when there is little chance of re-integration into the social environment, even though he may not be found guilty, which is particularly true for smaller places. The protection of the child's benefit, the presumption of innocence and the protection of privacy should certainly be against the right and desire of the public to be aware of the events of public life, of course if this is not a specific nature of the crime. Finally, we thank the Ombudsman for his efforts and for his contribution to greater respect for human rights. We are particularly pleased that he has pointed to the discrimination against pensioners in the selection of researchers for research activities, which we have also taken on several occasions and thus together achieved the abolition of certain discriminatory provisions. Given the small number of people who are competent in this area, we think it's good for all of us. We can only hope that the Ombudsman's reports will be dealt with repeatedly in open ears, both by governments and by other authorities. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, however, we will strive to always review the legislative proposals from the Ombudsman's point of view and to ensure that fundamental human rights are realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Respectable Ombudsman, respected Minister, esteemed colleague and colleague! In the UK Group of Social Democrats, every time we consider the Ombudsman's report with extreme commitment and precision, because we believe that a guardian, like one who protects an individual in contact with public authorities, local authorities and public authorities, and as one who controls their functioning, is a criterion for the proper and proper conduct of authority in relation to an individual. The Ombudsman may grant protection to an individual by investigating his complaints and proposing the removal of irregularities if he finds that the complaint is justified. Therefore, the United List of Social Democrats reiterates the importance of considering the annual report, as it did every time the Ombudsman reports, and at the same time welcomes the increasing response of the government and government services to the report expressed in the Government's opinion on it. In doing so, we reiterate the responsibility of the National Assembly to impose on the Government, by adopting the relevant decisions, to remedy the irregularities identified. The rapporteur drew attention to the fact that this is structurally similar to all of the previous reports. We take it as a serious warning of the irregularity or insufficient regulation of many areas of our public and social life, and the question remains, whether the cases in question reflect a full picture of all the critical points in which an individual, in contact with national authorities and individual holders of public authority at different levels, did not have the right and proper conduct. The report also draws the attention of the Ombudsman to the lack of awareness of people with their own rights and power due to the individual's loss in the untransparent network of state institutions. There is still a lack of commitment on the part of state institutions to get closer to people. Too often, the situation of individuals is unequal compared to the situation of the State, for example, compliance with deadlines is treated differently. The most well-known are judicial backlogs and other violations of deadlines, while the respect for time limits is binding on an individual. Individuals' infirmities also stem from state willful changes to the rules, even violations of adopted laws. A particular problem seems to us to be the findings of the Ombudsman on the lack of rules or their non-execution, as well as a failure to respect the deadlines prescribed by the Constitutional Court for the elimination of non-compliance with the Constitution. In this regard, we particularly support the Internal Policy Committee's decision on this matter. Despite the government's already mentioned increased response, there is still a difference between how it sees the situation and how citizens and citizens feel from the Ombudsman's report. If we compare this with public surveys on the level of trust in individual institutions and on the level of satisfaction with the state of democracy in our country, it is clear, however, that there is also a great responsibility in the National Assembly not only to detect it but also to take action. They are also concerned about the findings made in the assessment of respect for human rights and legal certainty, that there is too little tolerance for others and others throughout society, and that the number of complaints about violations of human rights in police procedures is increasing. It is therefore good that some of the guardians have experienced legal regulation - for example, the regulation of the problem of the ten-year "temporary" stay of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is still worrying about the unresolved problem deleted from the register of the permanent population of Slovenia. There is also concern about the rise in cases involving infringement of fundamental constitutional rights. Therefore, the elimination of all forms of discrimination is a civil and legal norm which should be respected. Therefore, the correction of the legislation which granted the Roma community the right to a councillor in 20 municipal councils adopted this year was supported by the United List of Social Democrats. We have also found from the report that indeed large-scale systemic movements in the field of public administration have not yet reduced the number of initiatives taken. However, the Ombudsman's warnings about the late issuance of sub-legislative acts must be given to law-makers in order to give serious consideration to the appropriateness of the time limits laid down in the legislative proposals. The number of denationalisation-related initiatives under consideration has, however, decreased. Unfortunately, however, from those addressed to the guardians of the largest group, these are the associations of the owners of the lightened property, the company of tenants of denationalized apartments and the company of tenants of business premises, it can be seen that in fact all the problems that the Ombudsman has pointed out in the previous annual reports are still open. With regard to the Special Report of the Ombudsman on the problem of tenants in denationalised dwellings, which is not part of this report, we believe that this report should be included as a point or sub-point in the Ombudsman's annual report, as it presents a very serious problem of a small number of people who are facing with legitimate dissatisfaction with little progress in solving problems. This, while increasing housing-related issues, shows a sharpening of the situation with regard to housing provision, particularly social ones. It is also concerned about the increase in labour relations cases and the tangible material distress of families or individuals associated with the long-term unemployment or non-response of state institutions. Therefore, we think it is so much more important to take measures to reduce the number of hard-working unemployed and all those measures that will increase social security and reduce the statistically identified poverty. The Ombudsman’s report also reveals the dark side of private life, such as domestic violence and violations of children’s rights and, as a rule, the non-payment of maintenance. For some of these problems, it will be possible in the future to count on a reduction under the legal provisions adopted. In the end, I would like to address only the issues of the introduction of special guardians and the delimitation of powers between specialised offices and the introduction of new institutions into them, such as the introduction of an advocate or advocate of equal opportunities within the Office for Equal Opportunities and the Ombudsman. Initiatives for the introduction of special guardians - for example, the information guardian's initiative is well known when the draft law on access to information of a public nature is being considered, and on any other proposal could be discussed - and when the appointment of the special guardian of patients' rights in the municipality of Maribor at local level, these initiatives could be resolved in different ways. For example, as with the special guardian of children's rights within the framework of the established, functioning institution of the Ombudsman, or perhaps by bringing the operation of the guardians, the specialised human rights guards, closer to those who are also assigned to the work. In order to disperse their exhibits across Slovenia and thus encourage the role that the respected Ombudsman has mentioned in his report today, namely that the Ombudsman has a dual task: one is supervisory and the other is educational. And it is only to wish that, when increased, the matters which citizens and citizens of Slovenia refer to the Ombudsman would be due to increased sensitivity to all human rights violations, while this would also reflect our increased awareness of the need to respect human rights. Let me conclude by thanking the Ombudsman for all the work he has done so far and with a desire for good work in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear guardian, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague. In the SDS Group of Members, we have carefully reviewed the Ombudsman's report, which, as we can see, is the seventh in line and the first in line with this current Ombudsman. In this report, which we somehow consider to be a public image, or as a mirror of our society, of our conduct, of our thinking, of our work, there are many things that we need not only to read, to have somehow for the moment we read it, but should be taken into account. And that is what the guardian’s purpose is and also the meaning of such a report. Otherwise, such reports are, of course, thrown away by the Ombudsman’s time. There are a lot of things that need to be pointed out, so I probably don't even have time, and I would especially point out the things that seemed to us in the party, in the SDS, especially worth stopping by. In doing so, the fact remains that people are still not sufficiently familiar with their rights and the opportunities afforded by this institution of the exercise of rights. We believe that the Ombudsman's warning that all state institutions should do more for the transparency of their work and for informing and informing citizens of their rights is justified, although we believe that the situation in this area is improving from year to year. Of course, we want to get to a higher level. In doing so, I would point out that the electoral password - and this is not now luckily the elections are over - that we had before the local elections, that every human being is the most important, that in some sense the Ombudsman also warns that state institutions do not have time for the hardships of small people and that the country should do more to resolve the hardships of these people, both directly and indirectly. [[...]] And I will mention the bureaucracy that I think in a positive sense, that sometimes people in this area are not aware enough that they are because of people, because of citizens and that they are not the other way around. The Ombudsman also draws attention to the country's neo-optimal organisation. And in this particular respect, the disconnection of individual state resources. As a result, there is a lack of transparency in the work of various government bodies, offices, agencies and institutions, many times in our client. In doing so, I would like to point out that the new public administration legislation, which we have recently adopted and supported, will be a guarantee that in future reports these shortcomings will no longer be in such a large number and will also be reduced over the years. In our parliamentary group, the SDS, we also keep reminding ourselves of the swift, unregulated and reckless proposal of laws in the parliamentary process by the government, without adequate analysis and examination of the consequences. For this reason, of course, we accept imperfect, unimaginable, inadequate, bad laws, which, of course, has certain consequences and which the Ombudsman also points out in this report. Of course, a special place also has a situation in the judiciary, where major movements in recent years, despite some attempts, do not detect at least major movements and this is a serious reminder, which is, of course, also pointed out by the international institutions, in particular with regard to rapid and high-quality trials. Here I would mention that solving problems must also be in real time. If ten years pass, it is no longer real time and of course the matter loses its value. But those who seek justice, of course, lose every hope. Thinking about whether Slovenia needs a larger number of guardians - and also for specialised areas - we believe: of course, the Ombudsman's opinion will be important in the decision and the assessment of the situation in this area as well as the environment in which it all happens. Nothing helps if every local community has a guardian or if every human has a guardian, if there is no proper hearing for it, if there is no proper environment for it, then it does not help. And even in this context, we need to think about this report. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the Ombudsman is seriously pointing out some of the shortcomings of our society and, in particular, the state of the institutions for which the government is responsible. We expect the government to take a more serious approach to remedying the shortcomings that the Ombudsman is alerting us to. Of course, my colleagues will discuss this further. Allow me to remind you of the opinion in the Ombudsman's report, which I said was like a mirror of our society, where, among other things, fear of the consequences of the complaint, distrust of society and the like. In short, a certain degree of democratic and cultural development of the whole of society is needed to enable the Ombudsman to act. Of course, we fully agree with this, for we have repeatedly been alerting ourselves to these things, and we believe that if the environment is not ripe for certain procedures, then of course these procedures will not produce exactly any fruit. If the environment does not accept the image that appears in the mirror, then there is nothing to do with putting on pink glasses, coloring glass, and the like. The fact is that society must also accept criticism, it must also adopt a factual description of the situation in society, because otherwise all such procedures are irrelevant and do not produce an appropriate fruit. It is clear to us in nature that if we are to plant seeds, we must plant them in this prepared land, in this prepared environment. We all know that we must sow wheat in good land, and we all know that we cannot sow wheat in the desert. But when we talk about the seeds of democracy, many people would like to plant this seed in the desert, in an inadequate environment, of course, in the sense that nothing would change and that it could not always be bad, but I am talking about those who are not good, that everything would remain the same, that nothing would change so that they could keep their habits. And nothing helps us to see once a year in Parliament that something is wrong, that we want something better, and perhaps we are also discussing how good it would be if it were better. For we can and only can do this when we have the seed at our disposal. This seed, however, is when we have a legislative procedure and when we are preparing for a particular area, we are modifying, supplementing the relevant law governing a particular area. At that time, we have a family and a variety of times in the social-democratic party feel like one who sows good seed in the desert. For all she has warned that the right marriages are not good, they are not the best to have certain consequences; they are like the voice of the crying in the wilderness. Of course, then things appear, they are detected, and we also see a picture in this report by the Ombudsman. Here I would also point out that this seed that we sow here is such that it would be good to listen to the voice of the opposition at any time and to take into account the relevant documented, reasoned comments that it would not ever - I do not claim that I always, in particular, point out that not always, but sometimes - that we would not sow seed in the desert. Even in this context, we feel that this report is good and urgently necessary. Perhaps in this context of desert sowing, it would be good if perhaps such an image were to be seen twice a year to reflect on what we are doing and what is happening in our society. And in this sense, we believe that such a report is good. As I said, it might be good if, at least twice a year, such a report could also be dealt with publicly in the National Assembly. My fellow Members will also make other comments and reflections on this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u70	Respectable present, lovely greetings! Especially a nice greeting to my mom up there on the balcony. Allow me to touch today's matter. As time changes, so do people and the content of the speaker. Not long ago, when Mr Drnovšek was talking about the quality of life in our country, he was talking about the unemployment rate, which doesn't exceed 6.8% after the so-called ILO standards; how fantastic we are in our society and how we really are that success story. Today, when we meet with the Ombudsman's report, we see that in fact everything is not as beautiful as it should be. And if we look at this report by the Ombudsman on the issues at hand, we see that there is only a small percentage or indexation of improvements in the rare area than in the past period. So by another state institution, the Ombudsman, we see that they do not keep the word of a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; that matters do not take place as they try to show us. If we summarize as a common denominator in the Ombudsman's report that people are powerless, that they do not find obedience in public administration, politics and ultimately in this national council, then we must take this well. Then I think it makes sense to do more with this report than just listen to it, but to be touched by it. But allow me to follow the order of the cases under consideration. As far as constitutional rights are concerned - I will speak in a percentage increase in last year's caseload - the Ombudsman addressed 236% more cases than in the year before, in the area of social security by 11% increase, labour law by 18.3% increase. Administrative matters as the second largest chapter or matters, if we can call them, are still in second place and are still very worrying in this area. However, I think it is reasonable, valuable and wise to stop, especially in the field of judicial proceedings. As you know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has over a period of time developed a so-called "twinning" project or modernization of the judiciary, from which there are six measures to improve the inefficiency of the judiciary, which is also, according to the Ombudsman's report, one of those elements in our society that causes backlogs and thus inefficiencies in our country. From this so-called "twinning" project, or a project to modernise the judiciary, I think it makes sense to mention that our judiciary is more numerous than a judiciary in a comparable European region, better equipped, better paid, but worse, less effective in justice and other proceedings. However, the State, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this area, despite yesterday's treatment of a related topic, does not do anything here either. Even more! In my personal opinion, it is a silence in this ineffective element in our society. We reward them with a permanent mandate. I reward them by putting them in place and making them untouchable. But of course, around the judiciary, this national council has said quite a few things. Regrettably, I have to make amends - a year ago he even adopted a decision that would allow for higher quality and minor judicial backlogs in the field of justice, but what if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia failed to do so. I think that if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had joined in modernising and improving the efficiency of the judiciary, this would also be evident in the Ombudsman's report: in better results and in a negative state of judicial backlog compared to previous years. In all areas, the environment and space, as the work area of the Ombudsman, one in seven, will increase the number of complaints, proposals for 32.4%, as regards economic, public services for as much as 51%, despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the executive branch of the Government, has already offered the solution several times, which, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, would be optimal. So, with the eternal dilemma and the eternal problem of economic public services, which, on the one hand, bear the title of a public undertaking and where they have to follow the law on public companies and, on the other hand, have the title of a capital company. And as long as this imbalance in the legal aspect of the existence of this society, so long will the Slovenian policy have - which is not so important after all, but more importantly, we will have so long a problem with the area of economic public services: both at the level of local communities, that is, the municipality, as at the level of the country, whether in the form of the amount of contributions through deposits or eventually in the form of privatisation. And as you know, at this point in our country, there are quite a few privatisation claims that are reflected in the referendum applications as well. And someone once said that the referendum was the most democratic form of decision-making. And I'm going to say - the referendum is due to a lack of political knowledge. The referendum will take place when people disagree with government decisions when the government does not have a hearing on such a matter. I continue - 18.5% was an increase in housing issues. And even if we look at the real estate market prices, we've seen that the percentage of these deposits are likely to increase in the coming years. This is as I said at the outset - the report is one thing, it can go past us and it can touch us. I sincerely hope that from this report, the Ombudsman's reports, we will take something from the Members. We learned something. It is that there is another side to this country: not only the side of Mr Drnovska, that everything is fine and everything is wonderful, but that there are also outstanding problems in this country. If there was no area, unfortunately, in this country of ours that would function in such a way that we would proudly attach it to it. But of course, the speakers in front of me said it made sense for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to approach everything. That's right. However, I think it is at least that important, if not almost more important, that we approach Members and Members to address this issue. To approach the politicians or those representatives of the people who have chosen us to try to choose their problems. I think that party policy or state policy is wrong. My belief, or my words, is also discussed by the Ombudsman’s report. As you know, only in this recent period have we voted negatively in this national assembly, so we have not voted on a number of important areas that we could debate. We had the opportunity to debate the so-called public debt, which burdens every Slovenian, even the one who is not of age and, of course, Slovenia for over 700,000 Slovenian tolars. But this National Assembly has decided not to address the issue of public debt. That's what happened at the previous regular session. Even though it is known that almost or some less than 300,000 Slovenians live below the poverty line. But to Members and Members of Parliament, to those of you who have achieved that we have not dealt with this, you obviously did not find it worth it. We are all reminded that, by the European Union, it should also be equal regional development: that in our country, the central Slovenian region is developing quite well, and that then the regions, especially those that are separated from the centre of our country, which stand out for several times in terms of employment or unemployment, in terms of economic development, social and cultural development. However, even this issue, which we had the opportunity to vote twice and to address at the meeting of the national assembly, did not seem worthy of consideration by Members. And at the final stage, we all know, we have a law to promote coherent regional development. We have adopted a law to tell ourselves that politicians will say to themselves: well, we have a legal basis for coherent development. But we didn't provide the means. The bluffing of who is it, honourable Members and Members of Parliament? And the same story takes place today or for three days on the parent’s working body, the Committee on the Economy, around the law on helping businesses in difficulty. Since this same national assembly does not allow the provision of funds under this law to help economic operators in difficulty. Ladies and gentlemen, in such a way as this National Assembly does, I do not think we will help in any way to improve the Ombudsman's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable guardian, co-workers, representatives of the government! I cover a variety of areas within the Group of Members. And since it has happened to me that, for objective reasons, I have covered this area on my mother's working body, I have yet to perform here today on behalf of the Group of Members. I imagined my performance from four parts: first there will be some introductory principle thoughts, then I will try to briefly comment on the report of the parent working body, followed by a brief comment of the Ombudsman's text, and then I will also present some amendments to the proposal for solutions designed by the working body. If I have seen correctly, we have also tried to further improve the proposals for conclusions or recommendations in our parliamentary group through concrete amendments. First of all, with regard to the principle of thinking relating to the status of the Ombudsman in the Slovenian legal and constitutional system. As I have already said on the Committee, it is normal and also in some way understandable that the Ombudsman's report can be very good material, so that those parliamentary parties who have opposition status can make through it a mirror image of how the executive power works in the country. Such a performance is normal and is also politically understandable. Especially at the last performance of the esteemed colleague of Pečet, this thought grew stronger. In view of the fact that the Ombudsman's report could be the shadow side of the country if I paraphrase perhaps the most famous Kocbek novel about the shadow side of the month or the very well-known exhibition a few years ago, each image has a sunny and sunny surface. Although I would hope to claim that the Ombudsman's report is always a synthesis of shadow and solar wages. And since this intersection is happening in Parliament, it is all the more important that we try to overcome the division of the opposition here: the position and, above all, the government's recommendations to design solutions so that as many people in the Republic of Slovenia can live in a way that they can say that they live in a solar state. As I was also active on the working body, this is the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice, which has very much to do - I have done well - I have also paid attention to the report, and since the new rules of procedure apply - by the way, it is a shame, although the practice is understandable that relatively few fellow Members of Parliament will listen to this debate. I fear that a large majority of my fellow Members will vote in the evening, even though they will not read the full report in detail. But this is the direction that the European Parliaments are going in, but it is the decision of the Members and Members themselves, what is the topic that attracts them. And therefore, since our rules of procedure are very important to the working body, I have been careful, for in a report that is extensive [[I am talking about the report of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice]] , in this report there are not some of those that have been exposed - I have highlighted them myself, as well as some other colleagues - and if they are missing, it does not mean that they have not been exposed, and I must mention them here first. I asked the question of the reasons why the guardian stated that on page 26 he was talking about amnesty. Thus he said: "The Gordite knot of the longevity of procedures which deal with acts of self-reliance in criminal law must be cut short as soon as possible. The rule of law requires that the criminal procedure be completed as soon as possible. The duration of these procedures has already been of concern." At the same time, the Ombudsman shall give the competent authorities, in particular the State Prosecutor's Office, a consideration as to whether it might not be appropriate to propose amnesty to release prosecutions for certain offences at least. Amnesty is an act of grace, but it is also an expression of political wisdom to take account of the legal and legal circumstances which may dictate and justify its application in certain cases. The National Assembly passed the first and only law on amnesty in Slovenia alone at the end of 2001. At that time, the opportunity to deal with a possible abolition was missed, namely the abandonment of criminal prosecutions at least for certain crimes committed in the independent days of a young country. The Ombudsman gave me a brief answer to my question. I personally appreciate that it was a very courageous decision by the Ombudsman to write such a text. And because I opened this issue on the working body, because it is a very important, sensitive political issue, I was disappointed because I did not find a place in the report. The second question is the question, which is also the question of my profession, which I still belong to with my soul and body, is the health profession. With a careful processing of the government's response - and by the way, I would like to commend the government for its opinion, because it has taken a good approach to this report, very systematically, and this communication by the Ombudsman is good; last but not least, it is at a symbolic level that it represents the government here today in addition to the Magi. He's a digger. Ivan Bizjak, former Ombudsman, is actually a good sign of this cooperation. Well, and in this government report - this is proof that we have followed very closely - but the area that is concerned with certain health and pension insurance issues has fallen out - is a matter of a list of occupational diseases. And then, I think that two days ago we received an additional opinion from the government on the annual report, and it says here: "The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is both a sub-law," this is a list of physical defects and a list of occupational diseases, "preparation and sent them for review and comments to the Ministry of Health and other authorities, but there was no agreement." Well, there was no consensus. And here, colleagues and colleagues, I would ask you to support our additional amendment to these recommendations, which says that the government must take a step forward here. However, the government correctly admitted that it had not yet succeeded. And if you are careful, on page 49 the Ombudsman wrote that currently a disease is considered exclusively a professional disease as defined in the list of occupational diseases. You'll remember how many human and other problems, for example, she's only done in all those who've got borellia, so the disease is boreliosis. Unfortunately, it's not in the report. I expected the report, however, to record a debate in which such a guardian, and in particular his deputy, participated and is linked to the area of late interest. It is a matter of late interest and the Ombudsman says that this is one of the worst problems in tax matters. "With regard to the question of the beginning of late interest, we have repeatedly warned," so the guardian, "to the inequality of the taxpayer in relation to the state." If this is written down, we should be ringing all the alarm bells. The government says she's already done something, but unfortunately not everything. Our additional amendment commits us to a more firm stand on this issue. So, in the conflict between the state and the taxpayer, let us make sure that it is not unfair to the taxpayers. There is another area that I have opened up at the working body meeting and has not been reflected in the report. This was the question of how last year's additional decision, which, by the way, I myself proposed, touched on the Ombudsman's annual report for 1999 and 2000 and it reads: "The National Assembly calls upon the competent authorities to do everything necessary for the decent marking of the graves after the war-killed persons, for their symbolic burial, the establishment of lists of these persons, the pathetic treatment of the remains found and the access of their relatives to all data on their fate." I asked the Ombudsman how it really was that there was no letter, no initiative, no hardship in this area throughout the year, because we received some letters on our parliamentary bench, where it was written that they also addressed the Ombudsman with these questions. The guard told me they didn't get it. I believe him. However, my question was only whether it estimated that this additional decision adopted last year by the State Assembly was being implemented by the Government in a qualitative manner. Unfortunately, I find that it is not complete. This is also not recorded in the supplementary report. And another point that was not recorded in the additional report is very important. In fact, this is a new syntagma, a new expression which is very reverential, I would say with some original simplicity, brought to Slovenian political space Mr Hanžek. He said that he could find that there are some relations in Slovenia in the area of equitable regional development, on the basis of which he could say that there is so-called regional deprivability. And that, as it were, is a very brave thesis. Many fellow Members will recall that we have already highlighted it several times in our discussions. I hereby conclude my comment on this report. This is not a criticism to preparers, it is mainly an act to remain an integral part of the functioning of the National Assembly, to remain as a document and a workprint, to me personally and to the parliamentary group that has opened up these questions with all its responsibility. I move on to a brief comment on the regular 7th report of the Ombudsman. As some colleagues have already mentioned, this structure of the report does not differ significantly from that of the previous ones. In fact, it builds them up, accepts the basic contours, as the previous reports have already established. However, it may have been further successful in the transparency and transparency of the individual areas under consideration. We understand the full report as a way to inform the public of the situation in the field of human rights in the country and of their violations. In the parliamentary group, we are convinced that the Institute of the Ombudsman and in particular its functioning is a mechanism for alerting the state apparatus to the hardships of its citizens and other residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Both guardians have been successful in this area, and citizens recognize them as such. 3. It is important to seek to improve operations in all areas, because unfortunately, the absence of complaints does not mean, however, that apriori is also the absence of infringements. For example, the reason for this may also be the lack of knowledge of the ways that individuals can use, or even worse: fear of possible consequences. In view of this, it is necessary to make the operation of all state authorities as transparent as possible - this morning we started to consider one law in this area - and also to use different methods to inform individuals about their rights. Fourth time. The Ombudsman's report also discusses discrimination, including discrimination against older persons. The first, as in most European countries, is also an ageing population in Slovenia, which will undoubtedly make the subject more and more topical in Slovenia. Come in. On the subject of media and mechanisms for impartial treatment of ethical rules of the journalistic profession as a media judge, we agree with the Ombudsman in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, who supports the opinion that the State's intervention in this area would be inadequate and that mechanisms that will be impartial enough to gain public confidence should be developed by media actors themselves. Next time. The Ombudsman further draws attention to the lack of sensitivity and understanding of public authorities towards the pressures and problems of people. This is a topic that is a "light motive" of numerous performances by Members and Members of the National Assembly. We are convinced that the functioning of the state's organs must be brought closer to people. And in such a way that they do not feel the fear of exercising the rights they are legally granted. Next thought. With regard to the use of the term "mothership" as a reference to "Slovenian language", we support the position of the Slovenian Institute of Education, which has committed itself to eliminating all ambiguities in the use of that term, since such interpretation would in some way exclude all those citizens of the Republic of Slovenia whose mother tongue is not Slovenian. Next thought. In his report, the Ombudsman highlighted the issue of delays in labour and social courts as one of the fundamental issues concerning the protection of workers' rights to a fair trial and legal certainty. In agreement with the State Prosecutor, the Ombudsman has reached a promise or commitment that prosecutors will apply more consistently the provisions of the Criminal Code relating to crimes against labour relations and social security. We believe that only up-to-date and statutory procedures can provide comprehensive protection for workers. Next thought. In its report, the Ombudsman draws attention to delays in the work of the Centre for Social Work, which too often violate the two-month legal deadline for the issuance and service of decisions at the first stage. Similarly, infringements of the deadlines in the appeal procedure are considered to be the same. In view of the Government's response that the above-mentioned topics - cases relating to the child - require thoroughness, which makes it impossible to complete these procedures in an unreasonablely short period of time, it would be more appropriate to propose an amendment to the law of the specified deadlines rather than a regular breach, since failure to comply with the legal provisions would certainly not contribute to the legal security of the State. Now there are some of our amendments that we would like to improve or add to the recommendations of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I. Legal security in the country. We propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take all necessary steps to eliminate the unequal treatment of the State and the individual in judicial and administrative proceedings, for example to eliminate the unequal position of the taxpayer in relation to the State. The explanation has been briefly explained. We who are convinced that it would be fair for the government to seek to eliminate the unequal situation of treatment between the State and the individual - in judicial proceedings, for example, the Ombudsman is also talking about this in calculating late interest, since the state is already in a privileged position with its own apparatus in relation to the individual. In the Rome two recommendations, we propose an amendment, which reads: "The competent national authorities should give greater attention to the implementation and supervision of the safety measure of compulsory psychiatric treatment." More care is needed than in the implementation and supervision of a mandatory treatment safety measure. The Ombudsman points out, for example, cases where neither documentation was needed nor unregulated regular checks on the need for a security measure. In Roman Five, we propose an amendment that reads: "The government should strive for a faster and more effective solution to the denationalization problem." I don't think it's necessary for me to go public again. We propose an amendment for a new chapter six, this is the area of pension and disability insurance. The amendment would read: "The government should prepare a new, updated system of physical impairments, as one of the rights of disability insurance is the right to disability or compensation for disability, because the unscheduled list does not allow the correct and equal treatment of all defects. The competent authorities of the Government shall undertake to prepare a new list of occupational diseases as soon as possible." I've been talking about the explanation myself before when I was talking about the work-body report. Then comes the sixth amendment, the new seventh chapter, which would read - this is the residential area - "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should do everything necessary to implement the national housing programme and prepare various mechanisms that will follow the real needs of non-profit rental and social housing..." I've been talking to the Minister of Mags for a while. To the digger who expressed his skepticism for the continuation of this amendment, which reads: "...for example, a change in the national housing programme, a law on real estate investment funds." We are, of course, open in the Group of Members to propose such an amendment, which will be adopted with as much consensus as possible, and I take this opportunity to briefly justify our proposal. In fact, why do we believe that investment funds, if established, could be an important mechanism for social welfare in the area of housing? In our view, investment funds will be able to build real estates and not buy them on the market if they are allowed by law. This means that the real estate will reach only the price of construction works and other costs and not the prices in force on the market. Such a law would stipulate that the real estate funds will hold most of the property acquired in their possession. This would achieve their income by renting and managing. The impact on the market will reduce the demand for real estate and in this way many will be able to rent an apartment at an affordable price and on the market and will not have to wait on municipalities for a social or non-profit apartment. In this way, it is essential that the basis for calculating the rent is much lower than the price of dwellings, such as the current basis for calculating the profit. Of course, the market will still be an important generator of economic growth despite the decline in real estate prices. And one more thing. In our view, this will also have an important impact on the impact of the labour market and in particular on labour mobility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca and then by Mrs Majda Zupan as the last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u74	Your Honor! Each report by the Ombudsman is, in some ways, traumatic. At the same time, there is a sophisticated detector of tolerance, intolerance, respect for human rights and freedoms and human dignity. Traumatically, I say, many times because it usually ends with decisions that are similar year after year and have a common denominator: more effective action must be taken; additional resources must be provided; more effective resolution must be done; efforts must be made; respect must be taken and so on; more efforts must be made; more attention must be given; weight must be given and so on. Of course, it is very embarrassing that the conclusions in considering the previous report are quite similar to those which we may accept, perhaps even further adopt in this report. However, it is certainly worth noting that I do not deny that there is a need to take into account a government report or an explanation of where the measures are pointed out, of course, to the opinion of the previous report, the will expressed, some procedures have already been further clarified and in progress, because each story certainly has its own mirror image and truth. And only according to the supplement of the government should we understand and read this report. At the same time, we can read the Ombudsman's report in the National Assembly in some way more: either as a way to correct laws or as a recommendation to correct "conscience", of course, in the quotations, the "conscience" of those who enforce and apply laws in practice. Either way, we read the report, in any case, this material is sociable, regardless of whether it does not cover the majority or more of the problems that plague citizens and citizens. That's why I also initially said it was a perfect detector. For the complaints against the Ombudsman cover only cases where people decide on the procedure, but not on those - and at least we know that there are many of them - where people do not hope to make use of this institution. As the Ombudsman himself notes, people are not always aware of their rights and ways to them or, if they are already aware, they do not want and hope to resort to complaints, either because they feel powerless before them, or because they fear the consequences, or because they do not trust society at all. Well, society at all, so not just a segment within certain institutions, is becoming, and this is not only with us - I stress, not only with us - less patient and tolerant, not to say, less and more solidarity, especially to different ones. And this is a basic message from the Ombudsman. For example, no one wants to accept in their vicinity waste or people who are different, from refugees, drug addicts to children with special needs and problems. Examples of the humiliation of Roma in not the most noble debates, including within our own species or spaces, also point to intolerance where there should be an example of patient dialogue. I have already pointed out on the committee, with the help of, admit, a very banal case, namely, the presence of the Slovenian Miss in the competition for the most beautiful woman of the world in the country where mothers with an illegitimate child are sentenced to death by stoning; in short, by means of this form of a banal case, I have stressed that there must still be a concern for an ethical country or an ethical state in the care of the rule of law. It is true that ethics stem from respect for legal security, personal freedom, consistent judicial, administrative and police procedures, and it is also true that if institutions do not comply with the rules themselves, it is difficult to expect to be respected by citizens in their daily lives. Those who, out of loving peace, can thus say whether he is the only one who is harassing a fellow man on the street, can look for his model in an official person who, for just some reason known to him, swears a citizen on the road, declares him a drunkard and a thief without having had any prior evidence. Those who - if I touch only a handful of cases - who unpunishedly let only his liked guests into the bar, but the distasteful minorities do not, the one who spreads intolerance with offensive inscriptions about, say, the electoral rights of unworthy chafurs and gays will seek an alibi for his doing in an uncontested right of intolerant expression. In this logic, where the rules of disrespect for human integrity are lost, solidarity and value of life are also lost. The report is, as a rule, stopped - and logical - for those who are in different positions of power, whether they are detainees, convicts on the suspension of a prison sentence, who have been duly punished, not only by punishment, but also by poor conditions in prisons, or whether they are persons with mental disorders, which have been spoken of more than once, for foreigners, for applicants of citizenship and so on. The function of the Ombudsman and fundamental freedoms is, in some ways, limited to the mediation mediation position, I call it, the on-call observer. Nevertheless, I am sure that his status will grow stronger, especially if he continues to use those pathways that are not only concentrated in the report that we meet once or more a year in the National Assembly, but also when he uses those pathways that are offered primarily by the media space. Already in this report, we are facing some police procedures where powers are exceeded and respect for the legality of police procedures violated. Our thesis is the whole world’s thesis after September 11th and following recent events in Moscow that the need for protection will be increased every day, and thus an ever - increasing possibility of some kind of control. In this context, I am sorry to say that the role of the Ombudsman will be strengthened, as this assumption assumes that freedom in the future will grow more and more in the interest of protection. But in any event, at least this channel of debate, which is available in the National Assembly, may be welcomed, irrespective of the conclusions which are certainly not always consistently carried out, further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. And the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. Today we are going to devote quite a bit of time to the Ombudsman's report and I think it's the right thing to do. We are aware that the Ombudsman is an important institution that protects an individual in contact with public authorities and holders of public powers, local authorities and supervises their functioning. Since his work is public, his annual report is also one of the forms of communication that informs the public of respect for human rights in society and of efforts to remedy violations of those rights, which has been given a year’s interest. It is commendable that, together with the Ombudsman's report, a report on how to resolve open issues and measures to improve the situation, a report on the implementation of the decisions of the National Assembly at the end of last year, which bind the Government and have been adopted at the time of its consideration of the 1999 and 2000 report, which is not a comprehensive review, and a review of the legislative acts - which, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, need to be aligned with the Constitution - are some of the legislative acts that have been pending harmonisation since 1997. With the situation presented, we certainly cannot be satisfied, for our state and social life is very irregular. Infringements cited by the Ombudsman in his report are repeated year after year - more or less - suggesting that public authorities and institutions, despite warnings, do little to eliminate them. Allow me, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, from a broad range of issues addressed, to highlight in particular the following conclusions, which we should particularly consider as Members. An important finding by the Ombudsman seems that many state institutions, which also have information and legal advice to people in distress, have not come close enough to people and are too vulnerable to the needs of people. We hope that this will also be addressed to a certain extent by the Act on Access to Public Information, which is in the procedure. Then there is an important finding in the legislative field. In particular, as regards non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court in the case of small people, this shows the relation to the human rights of each individual. The judicial proceedings, which can be carried out for several years and thus lack of confidence in the rule of law, are a major cancer wound to our society. Also, long-term denationalisation procedures, which the country seems to have forgotten most. What we need to be particularly concerned about is: poorly prepared proposals for laws and regulations; the adoption of these laws by means of a rapid or urgent procedure, with insufficient analysis and possibilities for implementation in practice; all too many sub-laws and trade between parties, which does not provide quality preparation; the commitment of the state administration to the needs of political parties and individuals and the establishment of a wide variety of offices and agencies, often without the right concept; and the under-coordination between ministries, which also causes a poor organisation of the state. The power structure changes the rules of conduct by force and does not adhere to the laws adopted, while, on the other hand, it does not adequately protect people against the different will of some authorities. All of this is caused by fear, mistrust, and uncertainty in people. There are many other areas in which the Ombudsman has been alerted. My colleagues are going to say a lot about that. We can further see that the government has drawn up its opinion and tried to give some answers, but this is certainly not enough. The report cannot only be understood by Members as an incentive, but also as a confirmation of dissatisfaction, in particular by the opposition, to the poor functioning of state, local and institutional bodies. It is not enough just to comment on the report, or as Mr Podobnik said: a comment which is an integral part, the impression of the work and content of Members, to me personally. There is a need for political will to change the situation in areas in which the Ombudsman points out. This political will is certainly too small, and we fear that the Ombudsman's report for 2002 will be even more extensive. Otherwise, Members of New Slovenia accept the report and recommendation of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and other institutions to actually improve the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mrs. Silva Crnugelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-welcome colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, Mr. Guardian! Checking the Ombudsman's report is a very interesting thing to do, and I compare it to reading an interesting book. It reveals and reveals to me some new perspectives, encourages me to think differently, leads me to a different mental flow, and, finally, gives instructions and instructions for further work. Since the Ombudsman's report covers all areas and touches on every living season, I can compare the debate on the Ombudsman's report with the consideration and debate on the budget. During this pre-election period, I had this opportunity to attend meetings of a number of committees, which I am not a member of. This gave me an opportunity to take a full look at the functioning of most of the working bodies and at the thoughts and wishes of individual Members. I can see that most of these committees have come up with the idea of the Ombudsman's report to the Committees of the National Assembly as a separate item of the agenda and that the State Assembly has dedicated its own session to the report. By doing so, they would give the guardian's institute and his report a new tone and weight. Today I will pay more attention to the environment and environmental issues, as I attended the round table on drinking water quality days ago. All discussions focused mainly on the status of the environment at risk, on environmental protection, on mechanisms, controls, on their shortcomings and on sustainable development strategies, on the strategy for environmental training, exposure and education, in particular youth education. The environment has been found to be much more at risk than refugee images and reports from government services and offices. All calls from individuals and a number of organised societies and organisations are thus justified, so that all components of the environment must be systematically monitored immediately. That is why I have reviewed more closely all the environmental reports of previous years and found that most of them are repeating and repeating the problems of environmental regulation, the problem of environmental noise, transport, catering facilities, smell, numerous irregularities in the acquisition of construction and location permits, the notification of parts, the acceptance of urban documentation and the infringement of the procedure. I expect, however, that these two emerging laws, namely the law on building buildings and regulating premises, will ease these problems slightly and resolve them. Despite the fact that we have a variety of good documents and good legislation in Slovenia, the most modern law on environmental protection and the environmental protection programme, there are many problems and they just accumulate and slowly resolve. I will add that unfortunately the report on the state of the environment in Slovenia has not been produced since 1996. Although this was issued in 1999, I am rightly concerned about what happened after 1996. Can the government take any appropriate and timely action if it does not have the right parameters for effective action. I therefore ask the government when it will draw up a report on the state of the environment, because I can only conclude that I also raised this issue last year. At the same time, I ask the Ombudsman to do something to get this report on the state of the environment in Slovenia in a short time. At least once a week, I get a call from concerned individuals and citizens and they ask me how they can help solve certain environmental problems. I am aware that the problems of the environment are not solved by one report that this is a persistent daily work of all awareness, education, information and changing mental patterns, values and so on. I am aware that only a few of us can do anything to stop oil tankers with millions of oil barrels from floating on unmarked seas, and all of us could do a lot of things together in order to need fewer tankers and fewer oil. None of us can reduce the hole in the ozone layer above Antarctica, but we can all reduce the consumption of freon, prevent the expansion of this hole over populated areas. I will conclude with the results of a study that shows that three out of four people feel that laws are not strong enough and that they are too mild. What could you and I or the National Assembly and Members do for the environment? Let us begin by thinking at least once a day about waking up to the environment: for all of us and for future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Maja Zupan, who is not, was notified of her word. The word has Mr Pavel Rupar, who is not either, Majde Širce is not, neither is the winner of Jelinčič, nor is Dr Andrej Bajuk and Mirk Zamernik. Jaša Zlębec Lukič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u80	The annual report of the Ombudsman Matjaž Hanžka and his colleagues for 2001 is, on the one hand, a remarkable achievement. Hanžek and his men have done a thorough analysis. The warmest thing from the Slovenian Parliament is to invite all our citizens and citizens to get this report and read it and think about it. The more impartial the analysis, the worse the image shows the truth of the Slovenian mirror. He'll have a hard time reading it. Since 1990, Slovenians have been forever proud of what we have done in the last 12 years of our sovereign state. Among other things, we stepped through the door of the European Union and received an invitation to join NATO. A great success for small Slovenia. However, everything is relative. All other Central European countries, which were both economically and politically incomparable to developed and politically balanced Slovenia, can also be commended for the same achievements. After all, it is a key question about the future of Slovenia, as the late Dušan Pirjevec has consistently said in the late 1960s: the essence is what the Slovenians will do with themselves. Unfortunately, we do not yet have any wise answers to this question. The Hangman's report is frank and unmerciful. Slovenians do bad things for themselves. The arrivals who came to us because of the war and the Balkan chaos made us feel even more unkind. We have all listened and read the tireless Matevž Krivica, who always warns of the worst and most obvious injustices committed by the Slovenian country with the pleased assistance of the Slovenes and Slovenes. The same is happening to the Helsinki monitor. Anyone who tries to help people who are wronged is called a fool or even an enemy of the state. They're not ours. These are foreign people. Although I know this well and well, in my 2001 annual report, I found it difficult to believe that the truth is even more spirited than I thought in my most moral dreams. The Slovenian state is a pale mother to its marginalised citizens, so that we do not talk about foreigners, refugees and marginal layers at all. These people are so scared that they don't even know or hope from the country to get at least that minimum that belongs to such weak layers and individuals. All of this was recorded and described by Hanžek with his team. It's a story of grief itself. What's going on? I quote from the report. "Some groups, particularly marginalised, rarely seek assistance or protection from the Ombudsman. These groups include schooling children, Roma, the poor, and refugees. However, the absence of their complaints does not indicate that these groups do not violate the rights or enforce them without problems. It's often the other way around." The end of the quote always turns out to be a carefree country. What's worse is when people are on the edge, less tolerance and understanding are shown by Slovenians. The country is no better, even though we are so proud of it. Citation: "The next source of human rights violations is the unequal situation of the State and of the individual where it should not be. Thus, courts are often late in decision-making for years and the individual is late in the appeal period if he or she is only one day late. The country exploits its power and voluntarily changes its rules of conduct and often breaks its own laws. It is often more important to belong to any political party than to expertise. This leads to a negative selection of lowering professional criteria and corruption." This may sound more principled, but the Ombudsman and his guards were more than precise in this regard. I quote: "The most common were complaints of concealed discrimination based on religion, nationality, gender or sexual orientation. The Muslim community of Slovenia has been trying for almost three decades to build its cultural centre. The reflection of the legislator's indifference to the powerless groups of the population is that there is still no law to regulate mental health. Although we cannot accept the negative, sometimes even the hostile attitude of Slovenian citizens towards people in distress, which shows a high degree of xenophobia, we need to build on the actions of power in this place. The serious systematic violation of human rights and the bullying of people is the removal of people from the register of the permanent population of Slovenia, and even worse the ten-year failure to address those violations committed by the State itself. There is still no constitutional right to judicial protection without undue delay, as the long-term wait for the first action to be brought for the main hearing in judicial matters is almost a rule. Many complaints about the forced behaviour of police officers are also likely to reflect a misinterpretation of the maintenance of security and the police do not treat complaints impartially enough, nor do the prescribed procedures oblige them sufficiently." End of quote. Of course, each country will take care of itself first. And let's not fool around, dear friends and friends, we as a parliament are part of the country, and this is an important part. If the Ombudsman has been the introduction of human rights in spite of all the principled nature, there are so many more frightening concrete cases, real people with names and surnames who have to survive the ascension of the state day after day and the top of all else bear the carelessness or even hatred of their fellow citizens. In one word: the more a person or a group of people is pushed to the margin, the less likely he is to successfully exercise his rights. The Roma in Slovenia are undoubtedly the group that all of them are maturing, even though they are citizens of Slovenia. Also this year, elections have shown how in many municipal councils some have done their utmost to put Roma and their rights in a corner. As long as it's possible. Not to mention the village of Grosuplje, where the Roma are writing with just a little beginning. Even though we have Slovenians as Soviets, we are closer to the Balkans than Europe in terms of discrimination based on sexual orientation. Not to talk about the color of the skin, which is often enough for its owner to be brutally beaten. International attention was drawn to the intervention of the Ombudsman when he refused to publish the Bayram talks of the Slovenian Mufti Islamic Community in the Republic of Slovenia on RTV Slovenia. Of course, it was discrimination against Muslims, which has lasted for more than 30 years in Slovenia. Similarly evasive power escapes the construction of a mosque on the outskirts of Ljubljana, with the right to take into their hands the gardeners there and their kindergartens represent a national interest. Otherwise, different criteria apply to different religious communities. On the initiative of two representatives of the religious community, not the Catholic Church, who wanted to enforce the employer's contribution to the social security of priests and monks, the Ombudsman found that the religious community office did not have any criteria for granting funds to religious communities. Nor does the Office reply to written requests for reasons. The director of the office even made it clear loudly. If the State has allocated certain budgetary resources to help religious communities, it must also define the criteria and procedure for sharing. Not as long as the government has distributed all funds to privileged religious communities. All religions are the same, only some are more the same - Orwell [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]] Come in. The protection of personal data is a constitutionally protected right and is between fundamental rights and freedoms. However, if the effects of the control and protection mechanism are not ensured at the same time, the whole system shall be broken. The European Union has already told us that we do not yet have an independent institution to protect the personal data provided for in the European Parliament Directive. Prisoners are also people, at least that's how they should be treated in prison. 42. Article 42 of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions provides as a rule for the stay of a convict in a single room. That's not funny, that's frantic. In fact, Slovenian prisons are too busy. In Ljubljana, capacity has been exceeded by 50 per cent, and sometimes over-occupation exceeds official capacity by 60 to 70 per cent. As a result of the spatial hardship in the Ljubljana Institute, the entire space for the leisure activities of the detainees has been turned into a residential prison. In recent years - this is all from Hanžk and his - in recent years, especially in 2001, there have been several deaths of convicts and detainees in institutions. The defendant and the detainee were released by the State, so it has the duty to take all reasonable measures to avoid the occurrence of deaths. In more resilient criminal cases, in particular, it is almost a rule that a detainee is brought to court in a chain of custody and is exposed to the public. Such exposure to an incarcerated detainee is demeaning because it is a phase of criminal proceedings when the presumption of innocence applies. It's a totally incredible story that the guardian's office dug up at the Institute for Mental and Nervous Diseases, Hrastovec-Trate. The 54-year-old man was admitted to the Institute in 1962. In 1989, neuropsychiater estimated that "the measure of compulsory storage and treatment is unnecessary or no longer of any use" [[End quote]] . Nevertheless, the Ombudsman was still in the institution in 2001, even though he was not in the records at all, but should be decided on him and his status every year. The man got lost in statistics in the living body - Kafka revivus. Then we have here a centre for the removal of foreigners, one in Ljubljana, the other in the Great Island near Postojna. So this center already has a horrifying name in itself, which should be banned by law. "Centre for Disposal of Foreigners" reminds me of the term about "deratization." The Ombudsman unannounced a visit to such an asylum center for the removal of foreigners in Ljubljana and Postojna. He discovered flaws and irregularities, especially in Postojna. Overcrowding, cold, and suffocating air create inhuman conditions. But it's nothing yet. At the time of the arrival of the Ombudsman in the Great Island there was a department of stricter police control, short of OSPN. There were 75 foreigners in this department, all under stricter police supervision. The capacity of the OSPN is 150 to 160 foreigners. They stay here for a long time, some for a short time, and others for three months and more. "They don't have a thorough check-up, because when they arrived, they told us that there was no woman in the OSPN, but we found two of them ourselves" - that is, the guardian and his. "One of them has been after her claim in the OSPN for six months" - I think it's black humor. In fact, I'm sorry, I graduated from a black humor: "One has been after her claim at the OSPN for six months." "Even other things concerning the lives of foreigners could not be fully said by any of the staff. Foreigners complained that when we visited them for the first time, they were allowed to talk to someone. In our conversation with foreigners, we have come to realize that most of them do not have any information on their situation or on the procedures they are concerned with, nor on the other circumstances they are interested in." And as a top priority, "There's no doctor in the department of a stricter police prison in Postojna who doesn't even get there. The OSPN has no house and no agenda. Instead, they replace their sheets every three weeks for fourteen days. It was also a surprise to clarify that lawyers do not come to the department of stricter police supervision, occasionally only representatives of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Representatives of NGOs, as we understand, are not allowed to enter the department of stricter police control and to talk to foreigners. The Ombudsman has received different information from individuals concerning the treatment of foreigners wishing to apply for asylum in the Republic of Slovenia. Some argued that there were unpublished, said to be hidden, instructions to the police that any requests made by foreigners for asylum would not be registered or that such a foreigner would not be allowed to apply immediately for asylum." Here I'm wondering if we live in a state of law. On the basis of these reports by the Ombudsman, I am convinced that we are not living in a fully legal state or are not living in a legal state at all. Finally, only a completely incomprehensible story, which would require at least two dozen police officers to be suspended, who grabbed a driver on Zupančič Street who had previously been a tree in Ljubljana and had repeatedly avoided police control. He was under the influence of drugs. Finally, he ended up in a stolen car right in front of the police, and the cops locked him in. When he was lying on the floor, they started beating him hard with his pants. Eyewitnesses who did not tolerate this brutality tried to calm the police, faced threats. The massacre was also accompanied by journalists. Even a color photograph of a blooded man was published in the Journal, where police officers continued to experience terror, beat themselves up, and threaten eyewitnesses. Although eyewitnesses have offered themselves as witnesses, no one has ever done one hair on their head. And, as usual, the Director-General of Police washed his hands Pilateically. Now for the end. The Ombudsman raided, and rightly so, the National Assembly, since this was the fourth time that it had amended and supplemented the Criminal Procedure Act at the end of 2001. "Too often amending and supplementing the law suggests too little serious work in the preparation of procedural rules," says the Ombudsman. But the Guardian does not know that the Members are also bleeding under the skin and that in large numbers they would like to be recorded in history. In my humble opinion, the National Assembly could fully adopt the Ombudsman's report, for so far there has been no party in the National Assembly, nor has it disputed the 2001 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has Sasha Pece - he's not here, Dr. Joseph Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Guardian of Human Rights and Escort, unfortunately I cannot greet you with a name, because I do not know if you have been introduced, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, I would say that I am thinking if your human rights are not also violated now that you have to sit here in an almost empty hall and I must say that three parties are not even here. I must say that there are ten Members, if I have counted before, and there have been six Members before. That's how we're "the better" here. This can be a comfort. And this part - I will also say that, during human rights violations, we should also put in place this rules of procedure that make all these things possible. Now to the point. Mr. Ombudsman, I congratulate you on the good organisation of the report and, of course, on the work that has been done. As has already been said, many things are repeated year after year, and this is a bad characterization for our society as a whole, even for us as politicians. But since we are here to build together, I would say, a noble legal state in the best sense of this concept, allow me some comments. First of all, I'd like to mention the court proceedings you criticised in your report. I agree with your comment that deleting the provisions on mandatory audio recording of the main treatment is a big step back. The practice of writing records by the order of the judge is archaic. According to the nature of the procedure, it is not necessarily accurate and credible. Many parties do not hope to object to the minutes. However, the practice of lawyers present is such that they usually sign the minutes immediately without being examined and that they "fly" somewhere else. Undoubtedly, this is a violation of the basic rights of a person standing before a judge. The second thing I would also mention is that it is absolutely incomprehensible - at least to me - what is accepted as evidence in our country. I couldn't believe it. And I believe because I've seen it. Okay, you're also talking about a violation of the attorney's duty. Professional companies around the world have their organisations to deal with infringements of the duties of their members. We also have a lawyer's room. This shall deal with infringements of duty in the course of a lawyer's business. However, you point out that the inefficiency of disciplinary commissions is in fact a regular matter. Look, lawyers are already in their profession because a lawyer's business is such that he's a powerful monopoly and that, like some other professions, no one dares to touch him. That's how these things are handled through the bar, that's what they're called, crows turn off, or they don't turn their eyes off. Some countries, I must warn you, have taken this issue into account and have come to some conclusions, such as putting in such a judgment or anything, a disciplinary commission, including representatives of the public, civil society and the states. In this way many things are resolved differently than they could otherwise, where only lawyers are present. You mention 11 areas that are within your jurisdiction. I agree with those. Nor does it conflict with the fact that your office is very much involved in deprived or, as you say, marginal communities. These people, too, who have the right to be different, and this right must be protected. However, this moves me to mention another difference, which is Slovenian, ours and the guardian of tons of responses. Maybe he can't see her. Maybe he doesn't want to see her. I do not personally see such differences in any other country that I know and not in transition countries. In a single sentence in your report, Mr Guardian, you are referring to the proposal for a grave bill and you say that you have been monitoring this matter in your office, but you have not received specific initiatives. Little wonder, for these initiatives were given to the previous guardian and where they are now. What happened to them? This problem hasn't been a problem since yesterday. It's been more than half a century. Is it acceptable for you, Mr. Keeper, to leave half a century after the war-killed Slovenian citizens and citizens in the graves where they were killed? Let me also remind you of the sacraments of interwar and postwar graves at regular burial sites. Where are you? Where are the remains of the people killed by the Communist revolution and those killed here after the war by the military courts? Do you not think that violating the human dignity of these victims for half a century is not part of the guardian’s jurisdiction? Then there is another difference, which, according to our constitution, should not be. And this is a "state ideology," in sayings based on the conquests of the revolution. The paradox is that today, the official history of the revolution, which led to the formation of NOBs, is officially changing. Now, according to the new one, there's been no revolution at all. Each of us has the full right to defend the NOB or to think otherwise; I personally respect all those who have fallen into the NOB by defending the Slovenian existence. Of course, there are other people who think differently. It is totally unacceptable, however, that our country has, through the current authorities, an official history to which it swears. This history was written by generations of regime writers. What can we think about such writings? Consider our neighbors who had other totalitarianisms and where their history is now. Look, every citizen has to believe in this state ideology if he wants to be employed by the state, get a job. Have you ever thought of that? I see that now the Ombudsman is leaving; perhaps he will stop because I want to tell him some more things. Good. Like I said, if you want to get a job, you have to believe it, at least on the outside, in this ideology, in this belief, or else you'll be on the road or doing something else. Isn't this, like, detention - and here I would like to see that the Ombudsman's office is also starting to think - is it not the enforcement of such dogmas in such a nice way, by faith, or will you not have a job, an extraordinary violation of human rights? This is a flagrant violation of our constitutional rights. Nobody in our society wants to talk about it. I'm sure I'm already kind of labeled a fanatic and so on, and I'll say this: no matter what I tell you that without God's scum, that's what it says, "by Grace of God," I was also in these tombs. That's why I have a duty to remind you of that. But it is a shame, a sad and shameful thing, that all these things are so profoundly characterized by our society. On all levels. The Ombudsman may think about what I am saying is a matter of policy. That is, when it comes to the preamble of the constitution to the NOB to the preamble. Because we have 28 advisors, professionally and so on, they all said, but that's a matter of policy. They didn't want anything to do with it, because, of course, it had to do with my job. But I have things to say, if they think this is a matter of policy, that politics must solve, then for all the points you have in your report, we say, this is a matter of policy and politics to solve it. Look, I'd like to know what you're going to do to put an end to this barbaric hold on our authority to the things that have happened. This isn't about defending anything, not one thing or the other, but it's about getting people buried or buried, I'm going to say, for fifty years, that the dignity that it requires. What the government is now offering under the sign of pieta is far from the pieta. Just look at what that law says and what the government is really up to. Look what the government promised when they discovered the cemetery in Slovenj Gradec last year. The state's attorney, the police and so on. Everyone had strong words when they were in front of the television cameras and then it was all watered down and it's been more than a year now. And where are we? Where are the I.D.s, where are the issues of the death certificate and so on and so forth? Yes, Mr. Guardian, is this not part of our lives that we really need to start looking at? Mr Guardian, I hope that your office will take into account the various comments and holy Members who have spoken before me and who will speak after me. But I am more concerned about what our National Assembly will do with your recommendations and what the government will do. I'm familiar with the government's report on your report. This government report was issued on 11 October, a good month ago. I was happy to see some things. But I think we need to be much more aggressive here in Parliament and demand that the finished items move until the second year. Otherwise, I'm going to say the same thing next year, it's a waste of time, and I think it's a violation of your human rights, that you have to sit here and listen to the same things. Some of your proposals will urgently require changes to existing laws. I hope that together we will all be able to have enough political will to deal with these tasks ahead of us. You, Mr. Guardian, have continued to have a great deal of success in your work. I hope that some thoughts will be taken into account, even though they may be very unwelcome, as I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Kelemina. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello to all of you who are in this hall! Report of the Ombudsman on the rights of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I see the report as very extensive. It's relatively accurate. This vastness may also result in an increasing number of violations of rights, and perhaps our awareness of the protection of rights is much more delicate. We know how to respond better. Infringement of rights relating to judicial and executive power. We know what it's like to have this power, who's running it, and that's why there's actually a report on that power. It would be nice if citizens, not just those things that are happening to them in their daily lives to read the whole, were to be appalled in this country. On the contrary, the report should be less extensive, smaller every year, which is also somehow expected by all to increase the level of democracy as well as the level of rights. I will touch on some of the things, that is, the cardinal things, the judicial backlogs, the work in the field of social policy, the social state, I will not go any further, because these violations are well described and are also enormous. I would point out something that we are responsible for in the National Assembly, a list of uncoordinated laws, for decisions of the Constitutional Court. This is our debt, colleagues and colleagues that should be done. This is also a violation of the rights that we are also causing by our actions. We have the opportunity to file - I have tabled two or three laws - in terms of eliminating this violation. That's one area. On the other hand, there are some things that have been touched by the Ombudsman, and I believe that the Ombudsman has been carried on. There are some things that are worth paying attention to. We took a closer look at the problem of renters of denationalised apartments. The situation as it is is, of course, has not yet been regulated. In doing so, the owners are injured, either those who have not yet been returned their property, or those who have been returned to them, but those relationships between owners and tenants are not arranged. It is certainly not possible to force measures or to require provisions that violate the rights of owners. This must be done in such a way that it does not violate its rights. On the other hand, take measures to solve this problem. And such instruments are housing policy, social policy and other policies, but only in a way that the dark ones have the privilege of a certain layer. That's the rule. So in this case, at least on the basis of a detailed presentation of the Ombudsman's proposal, initiatives have gone too far. The initiatives went in the direction that they could be subject to a serious constitutional judgment. We're talking about impatience. This would be a matter of caution as to what positions to take. Impatience to patience and tolerance to the impatient. This relationship is not clearly set in the text itself. The fact that some groups that appear at the edge are placed at the forefront, I wonder if we are using regulatory mechanisms can be very controversial - why would we privilege them if there is no basis for this. The text states on homosexuality. I do not oppose myself, and I have no negative relation to people who are so life-oriented. However, it is possible to discern from this a desire that all documents should be renegotiated. See, also textbooks, Mr. Hanžek, still hold that homosexuality is a social pathology. Anyway, you're turning it around. Yeah, that's right. But it's not a crime. This has to be distinguished. And I agree with that. And so it is. I'm not asking, or I'm not suggesting that anything be done in this direction. But to normalize. Not that it's privileged. That's the hold. You'll have to comment. With regard to the arrangements for temporary residence or citizenship, our parliamentary group has expressed its opinion where violations have occurred, the country must correct this. However, this cannot be fully equated with the right to citizenship. That our country behaves either xenophobicly or discriminatoryly towards people who would expect Slovenian citizenship. They have citizenship of that person. Of course, it would be unconstitutional to take citizenship away from someone, but these people have citizenship. The entry into this community of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, represents certain conditions. We can become worldlings and completely release the rules so that anyone can become a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I think that such doing in various respects would be completely reckless, inappropriate and would be a failure. In doing so, in fact, nothing would reduce any question as to the validity of rights. We can take cases across Europe. Germany, how the issue of citizenship regulates. How many people have lived in Germany for 30 years who do not have the nationality of the Republic of Germany. And that's why they don't put things on, I don't know what kind of pedestal. As regards the Roma community, the Constitutional Court ruled that they had the right to a saint. I'm not going to challenge the Constitutional Court because it is an independent and independent and supreme injunctivator of the judiciary. I wonder if this is what we have done when we have so-called a double electoral right compared to the other citizens who have only one. I am interested, but here I ask myself, in the executive branch, what has been done to ensure that citizens and Roma can enjoy rights regarding education, social policy, employment, because they are neglected. And how long have we been talking about this? Here is the key issue of equal opportunities for neglect. There's a lot more to this report, and I think the other interlocutors have already said. You also mention, among other things, the issue of the protection of personal data in the event of integration into the union. We in the New Slovenia Group have warned in the adoption of the Labour Relations Act that it would not be good for them to pay union membership payments to employers, as this leads to basic data on who is a member of the union. We've given this a serious warning. However, the national assembly and the government did not find this understanding. Now it turns out that employers have this, and it can be a matter of neglect. This should be addressed with greater flexibility and predictability. Sadly, this did not happen in marriage. In fact, here I would end with the final thought and wish that this report would be shorter for the next period, without being less complete, but that there would be fewer of these violations in order for Slovenia to make progress in this regard. Otherwise, I believe that the report has all the elements necessary for decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you, Comrade Petty Officer. Now I'd give my word to Franz Puksic, but he's not here. Then Aloys Sok, which I don't even see in the hall. That's why I give my word to Mr. Frances Cuckati.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! As I look at the table of increasing complaints or cases in 2001, compared with the year before, of course, the health care situation immediately falls into my eyes. There's an increase index of 204, so more than once more. With regard to the content of these healthcare initiatives, this is mainly the case in classical cases, the lack of respect for the principle of the physician's explanatory duty, the reduction of the right to access health documentation, as such an insight is in fact the basis for a complaint to begin at all, and of course for a violation of the fundamental human right to quality health care. And here are waiting periods, bad equipment, inadequate frame and so on. However, with these figures, I am actually surprised at how few of them there are, how few initiatives from this area. The experience of each doctor is that this number should be at least multiplied by a factor of 100. Obviously, patients do not yet use this institute or may give up seeking their rights. I am pleased with some of the new health issues, namely the finding of what is actually a lack of health care in prisons. The problem that we've been alerting him to has gone unresponsive. In fact, in prisons there are about a third of prisoners who have some connection, a more serious connection to addiction, drugs, alcohol, and the like. Access to these prisoners from the point of view of treatment of addiction is completely inadequate or not at all. This problem should probably be further highlighted, and this problem should be further highlighted, for being in prison should also have a task of education, treatment, a person with a slightly different attitude toward life, health, environment, and so forth. However, this is not the main problem facing us in the field of healthcare. The main problem is the lack of a serious state-government attitude towards the things defined in the law. This flawed attitude, not to say "chlammasht" relationship, is reflected mainly in the lack of sub-laws. Two cases have been mentioned, namely that patients personally suffer from injustice because the list of occupational diseases and the list of physical impairments has not been adopted. These two lists are back in 1983, and all the new issues are not in. And one who has a professional disease - a good example is the indication of a forester who has been infected with borelia at work and has, of course, become a disabled person on the basis of boreliosis, does not have this status, namely the status that it is the result of a professional disease, and is, of course, deprived of payment, disability and all possible. No, because back then, in 1983, we didn't know Borelia. And of course, this backlog in the adoption of illegal acts is really something those injured patients don't know what to do. No one forces the legislator or the government or the ministry to prepare it, no one sanctions them if they do not prepare it, but the consequences are here: specific consequences for individual people. I think it's an irresponsible relationship. Of course, there's still a number of other sub-laws waiting. I know them from the health care sector that is waiting, namely, by-laws, which are the basis for change, to supplement, to improve health care, and that is not the case. Of course, it is not the individual patient who suffers damage, but the entire Slovenian population. Let me just give you one example. In 1999, the Medical Service Act was passed, which states that the Minister of Health, within one year of preparation, sets up a network of medical jobs in Slovenia. This network of medical jobs is the basis for identifying staff employment, identifying shortages and in particular for a systematic approach to the resolution of the staff deficit, both by region, by location and by specific specialities in the field of medical care. And as long as it's not, there's no such approach. We can still talk like that - politics has stalled and all the solution to this problem has stopped. I must say that within a short period of time, the Bajuk government, those five months, had already been set up, it was only for "fracture", to verify on the ground and to publish, not only a network of medical jobs, but all professions in basic health care, and a network of medical jobs on a secondary level has already been prepared in hospitals. This was in October 2000. Today is November 2002. It all shows that there's not going to be a submarital act yet. And I could list them for you, and so on, but the problem is that we don't follow those decisions that we've incorporated into the law and demanded by law. On page 20, the Ombudsman wrote: "Even in 2001 the state did not settle its debt in the legislative field in relation to persons with mental health problems. The National Assembly has still not adopted a law to regulate the field of mental health, including the rights that go to mental patients, indicating its carelessness towards people with such a problem." Mr. Ombudsman, I do not agree with this last statement. The National Assembly accepts what the government is proposing, as proposed by the ministries. And even if the National Assembly were responsible for proposing an appropriate law, then give this warning to the government coalition. The opposition has made many constructive proposals, not only with amendments, but also with new laws, to address the problem of Slovenian health. But it's always been rejected because the proposals didn't come from the right kind. That is why, given the promises of ministries and also the habits that, in fact, ministries that have all the professional apparatus and also act in other cases as the first bill-maker, this sentence should, of course, read: "The government or ministries have not yet prepared appropriate proposals, which shows their carelessness towards people with such problems." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you. I now give the floor to Maria Ani Tisovic for her discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, Your Honor. Allow me to touch on a problem that is very widespread across Slovenia. Surely there has also come to you a complaint, in particular of workers employed by employers for years and years with fixed-term contracts. I know the case of a 30-year-old worker from Prlecia, who in 10 years, more or less in the same company, concluded 33 such contracts, 27 of them in the same company. She's out of a job right now because she's taking maternity leave. However, before the lease expired, the company was fired. We can imagine the hardship of workers and workers when temporary workers cannot obtain credit. At 60,000 tolars of monthly earnings, however, they certainly cannot save for the period when they lose their jobs. In addition, individuals and entire families live under constant stress when they lose their means of survival. If we look at our legislation, it does not allow employers to do so with workers. But the practice throughout Slovenia, not only in the eastern part of Slovenia, shows that such a situation is a cruel truth. I wonder where the rule of law is. Is there any other legal hole that would allow such a situation? I ask you, Mr. Ombudsman: Where do you see the place of your office here, that this issue begins to be solved in a complex way and not just individually? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek is next reported for discussion. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u90	I welcome the Ombudsman, who is not here at the moment, but will return, his associates, the Minister and all those present here in the Chamber. The Ombudsman's report certainly mirrored society and, to a large extent, a mirror of authority, because it is most dependent on authority in every country, and even more so in our country, which is typically a transit country. I must say that this mirror has shown an interesting picture: that human rights violations in this country are increasing, that people feel more threatened and that they have several reasons to complain and turn to the Ombudsman. On my show, I'll go straight to the line, just like it was shown. Thus, in chapter: Evaluation and respect for human rights, I said that I was glad that in this chapter and also in some chapters, that you have made very precise, with the right words, a problem which is in some way the nepotism and consequences and injustices that are taking place. So you say that the sources of the infringements, the instigation of its excess has used and willfully changed the rules of conduct, but often it also violates the laws adopted. It causes mistrust, fear, and, above all, uncertainty. In the case of recruitment, as well as in other calls, we have repeatedly observed that nepotism, clientism and science play an important role in decision-making, especially the criterion of political likeness. It is often more important to belong to any political party than to expertise. This leads to a negative selection of the reduction of professional criteria and corruption. I must say that in one paragraph the issue is very precisely summarised and I hope that our public will also be aware of this very precise assessment. The problem is that the one who could act in this country, the right representative of the authorities, the highest representative of the authorities, has also seen this, but we do not feel that he would act. I quote a statement by the Prime Minister and now by the presidential candidate Drnovsk, in January, before his party's congress, that there is a great deal of clientism in his clientele. Unfortunately, however, he has now blocked himself from this in some way in the presidential campaign. Instead of telling the public that he was still a fighter against clientelism and that he was consistent and acknowledged before the public. That didn't happen. You also mention high levels of xenophobia in this section. There is never enough opposition and struggle against xenophobia and intolerance. I'm all about finding it, defining it, preventing it. I must say, at this point, something must have happened. It seems to me that intolerance and xenophobia in this society were not exactly identified from where it came from. A few days ago, the Ljubljana mayors and the mayor's candidates wrote a low graffiti containing intolerance and xenophobia. I have to say, I'm sorry that something like this comes up. In some ways, however, it is good because the candidate for new democratic parties does not participate in this election campaign for the Ljubljana mayor or mayor. God forbid that there would be a candidate for new democratic parties of other options; then the media would blow up - this is a practice so far - and condemn the work of people resulting from this part of the political space After that it became clear to me that the basis for this intolerance and xenophobia is actually in the pool of continuity. This is sociologically clear because it is sociologically clear and clear because the political ancestors of these parties were building on divisions. I doubt that this has been experienced by various sociologists, philosophers, social psychologists, who write a lot about these phenomena, but have still practically always pointed to representatives of these new democratic parties with their finger. I must say - and this is the only criticism - that I have somehow realized that the guardian is also slightly more politically susceptible to such assessments, that he has not always been balanced and neutral enough here. Then we have a chapter on public speaking ethics. Here too, the number of applications has increased, and I hope that I have read the percentage correctly - 600%. This is, of course, under the chapter of constitutional rights, where there is also a clear increase in the index. Here, too, I was paying attention to a paragraph that says, "it is not acceptable for democratic states that a state authority or its official is trying to influence publications in public media and editorial policy." This is a democratic standard which seems to have not yet been adopted in this country. We have just read that the director of the Government Information Office has been hurghtling, pressuring the director of the Slovenian Press Agency not to summarise that he should not have taken up certain information. I must say, such pressure on journalists at the time of the election campaign has already been known. I'm very supportive of the press myself because I know they're under pressure. He's known each other. You know that. For example, at the time of the election campaign, although the opposition is the only one that is debated, it does not appear in the newspaper at all, in this information that any opinion has been expressed or so on. And it's not the press' fault, it's the press's fault, and it's the press's responsibility to protect it. Then you continue 'that is why in European democratic countries a principle is established which is particularly reflected in the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights that a public official must have a much higher level of tolerance to different opinions or even a charge on his own account than other citizens'. This is also a very important conclusion. I am almost sure that you had in mind, when this was written, the conviction of Member Iva Hvalica, and the swift conduct of the courts and everything, which is a particular case in European practice. Nowhere else would this have happened in this way and such signals have been sent to Parliament - restricting the public word in Parliament. With regard to the pressure on journalists, I must say that on Friday we were also given statements on some of the Februarys that journalists could explore. And this, of course, is the pressure on journalists, because the international press organization has warned that journalists are self-censored on this basis. And the watchman must also act against it. And now I'm moving to health care. Here's Index 204. In fact, I am surprised that the Ombudsman, although referring to this report, but some of the violations - well, that came later, so he cannot contain them - did not touch, for example, the affairs of the Celje hospital. This is the biggest, in my opinion, violation of fundamental constitutional rights. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] I'll have some more time, I guess.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u91	Unfortunately, you have exhausted the time notified by the parliamentary group, including the debate on the amendments you have subsequently tabled. Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle and Mr. Mamić, they're gone. I ask the proposer and possibly a government representative, would you like to add something in this part of the general debate? Mr. Hanzek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u92	I would thank you for all the praises, but don't be misunderstood, I prefer criticism, because in this case it means an incentive to think about what a person does wrong. I also apologize to Member Bernick for going out. It's not neglect, but a man has two, three hours of sitting and some biological needs to be met when it's time. But there are five of my colleagues here to monitor everything, so we haven't missed a word. There were no special difficult questions, even though there was something to answer, but it is difficult to answer everything immediately. However, I would just like to add, in the end, to answer - the question of the Celje hospital was not included in the report, because it was already under pressure when this problem started with the Celje hospital. Dr. Tsukatiu, although he is not here, in the mental health law of patients, we have mentioned Parliament because there are two laws in Parliament and that is why it has stopped in Parliament, so that Parliament is partly guilty. Perhaps a few things about discrimination - it seems that these things are not understood enough or marginal. Mag. Smallpox, we do not mention or mean the marginals in this regard only a homosexual or a foreigner who wants Slovenian citizenship, but marginals, this is very many groups of Slovenia. The marginals are workers for a certain time and the marginals are the Mariborians because they are far from Slovenia and they are harder to come by. Marginals are children who cannot afford their rights because they are dependent, marginals are all individuals and groups who are powerless in a bicycle. We can look at them geographically, we can look at them socially, we can look at them sexually, we can look at them economically and so on. I'm talking about all of these. Xenophobia, if we leave our resistance to, say, foreign homes, we wrote in the report mainly criticism, not as much criticism as the government did. It says: "Although we can't accept the negative, sometimes even the hostile attitude of Slovenian citizens towards people in distress, which show a high degree of xenophobia, we must build on this place primarily the act of power. Almost illegal night transport of strangers from one part of Slovenia." This is especially true of the fact that last year’s government moved in the middle of the night, and it is understandable that 500 foreigners are brought to one village where 100 or 300 people live, to resist and fear. That's what we warned you about. In this regard, I would also like to say a few things about intolerance. You will agree with this that they are not acceptable. When people resist being a kindergarten for children with special needs in their neighborhood. It's not once, it's a very common phenomenon. When they don't allow a school for children with special needs. When they don't allow communities of disabled people injured in traffic accidents, they say, "but we don't look around here." If we just say that, if we just think of it, it's a scary relationship, an intolerant attitude towards the weak. These are also marginals, not just foreigners and others. That is why I would like once again to ask Slovenia to make an anti-discrimination policy, tolerance and so on as soon as possible. Tolerance and intolerance arise primarily from information, knowledge or fear of the unknown. But what we don't know is unknown. And when we get to know something, it's less resistance to it. Here I think the main problem is. I'm not going to argue with pathology. Maybe Mr. Bernick. Hints about the question of lustration. I was in the Czech Republic with a colleague of mine, an ombudsman who, not of the communists, but of the former opposition, also stopped the prisons in the former regime. One of the biggest problems in human rights violations is the lustration that has been gathered in the Czech Republic. Because everyone on the average is throwing, punishing, and telling me that we can be happy that we do not have it in Slovenia. But it is also not a matter of a guardian, but of a law that Parliament has not accepted. There were also many other suggestions, suggestions, and then we will examine that, and if we see that we made mistakes, we will correct them. Nevertheless, in the end, thank you very much for a long and comprehensive debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Guardian. Two other government representatives wanted a word. First of all, I give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Simon Vrchunc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members and Members of Parliament, the Honourable Ombudsman and his fellow Members. There was quite a debate on health care and on the problems emerging from this area. Although I would only like to be able to point out here by assessing that this area is not as critically evaluated in the report itself as it could be seen from the debate. Let me just say that the debate itself on this subject shows how the protection of citizens' rights is a sensitive area. And the length of the debate and the way it is discussed. When it comes to the health of an individual, an individual citizen, it is clear that this is an even more sensitive topic. Of course, the government and the Ministry of Health are well aware of this. Therefore, they approach this issue in a precise, precise, delicate and sophisticated manner We have already prepared a proposal for a law on health complaints, which covers many of what has been criticised today. By means of this law, we intend to enforce the simplicity of the appeal proceedings. We intend to apply the possibility of resolving disputes already in the previous procedure. So, in the process of calming down. Finally, we also introduce patients' rights advocates in individual health regions to help the patient exercise their rights in the field of health care. This law, which is due to go into the government procedure next week and which you will be able to get into the National Assembly for this year's proceedings if there is enough time, will respond to many things that have been exposed today through this debate. One question has already been answered by the Ombudsman himself, or one criticism, is a criticism of the Law on the Rights of Mental Patients. In fact, these proposals are already in the National Assembly. Let me just say that this law that we're going to propose will at least partially cover this area. As far as the network of doctors is concerned, which has also been mentioned as non-compliance with legal obligations. The network is ready. Just the one Dr. Chukkat mentioned. But let me just say that this is a network that means the actual state. What is the situation that we are supposed to have in Slovenia, which is a more difficult question. This is a question that depends on different international comparisons, on how much we are willing to accept in Slovenia what we have been talking about today indirectly, it is true that foreign workers will be able to help solve the problem of the shortage of health workers, and how much health workers are willing to accept that the lack also means some sacrifice in another sense, that is, when you want to exercise your rights from a working relationship. So far, so much. Let me, in fact, return to my starting point, that the protection of rights in our area is actually very delicate, that we are aware of it and that we are once again saving a very large amount of what has been exposed by means of a law that you will soon be given to deal with.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Minister of Justice, Mr. Bizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u96	Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me first two three remarks at the end of this really long debate, which I think underlines the importance of the Ombudsman's report. There is something else from the government, which has, of course, been mentioned most often in this more than three hours' debate. Of course, the Ombudsman's report can, in the first place, be a tool for the opposition, because it is doubtless critical of the government and in this way it is possible to highlight certain shortcomings. However, I do not find it offensive that some statements were taken very seriously by the representatives of the position. It is right that legislators are sensitive to problems, and it is right that a system of barriers and balances is created here, too, so that when the government may offer an awkward solution, you will point to this. The Ombudsman's report is a picture, it's a reflection of the state of the country, but I would like to point out, in truth, that it's not just a complete picture, that it's that black part of the picture, because the Ombudsman is just not a praiser. Such a part of the individual’s response does not reach the guardian, let alone in the report. Even the often mentioned claim that there are more infringements, I do not think it is so obvious, or at least it is not visible. In fact, even the length of the report, the scope of the report cannot be a criterion for the number of infringements. Perhaps we could take the number of complaints to that end, but as I have been looking at it right now, it has been increasing, and it has been going on for the last few years, and certainly not drastic. We could perhaps take as a criterion the state of human rights, the number of well-founded or partially justified complaints, but even in this indicator we can find that these have been less in the last year. I am not saying this because I would like to exculpate the government so that I would like to claim to it that everything that has been said about irregularities, about violations, about shortcomings is not true. However, I just want to say that even some generalised and simplified assessments would not be in place. Tolerance was often mentioned. On behalf of the Government, I must say that tolerance cannot be ordered, but of course it is very important to sanction intolerance where possible on the basis of legislation. On the other hand - and this has also been mentioned - I would like to point out that the Government has proposed such an amendment to the Local Self-Government Act, which has ensured the effective implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the Roma representation. In our Constitution, there is a provision on the specific rights of the Roma community and the desire not to re-implement this provision in representation, the government has come up with, I would say, sufficiently explicit proposals based on certain data, which unfortunately caused certain negative reactions. I am counting on such an approach to take a step forward, on the one hand, towards the realization of rights, and on the other hand, I hope, after this first negative response, even to greater mutual tolerance, even to these multiple sides of the remote national community or ethnic community. With regard to the dilemma, whether security or human rights, I can claim that there is no hesitation in the government. One and the other must be coordinated. It is not that after 11 September 2001, we would also be making concessions on the human rights side on a security account. And now to some specific points or questions or points. With regard to the issuance of sub-laws. Last year, the government took this first warning from the guardian, which was not the first one, very seriously. And now, on the one hand, it is trying to eliminate all backlogs and, on the other hand, it is trying to plan work and draft regulations in such a way that it can also issue sub-laws within the appropriate time frame. I hope that this activity, which I understand is a firm determination of the whole government, will also be permanent and will thus lead to this finding becoming completely unnecessary. There's been a lot of talk about justice, about justice. We have written a lot about this in the response of the government, but a few words. On the one hand, there is no silence for the judiciary if the government and the competent ministry strongly oppose the abolition of a permanent mandate. The permanent mandate is also part of civilisation gains and a guarantee of democracy. On the other hand, it's not true that there's no movement. The shifts are, also with regard to the very awareness of the issue - here I would like to mention the report on judicial backlogs and remedial measures prepared by the Supreme Court and the Ministry, which comes from the fact that the situation in this area is not yet right, that the right to judicial protection is not yet everywhere and fully realized. In this regard, the Ministry is also quite critical when we are also addressing the data on the current situation in the judiciary. There are sometimes once again differences in the view between the tops of the judiciary and the ministry. Today, we are just reading allegations that the judiciary is functioning normally. I can assure it, but of course with the addition that sometimes and sometimes too effective. Further, to bring the country closer to the individual, to have sense for a small person, it should be properly organised. The Government is carrying out a number of activities under the so-called programme to eliminate administrative barriers, which some are somewhat ironic, including through the special emphasis on those that have been particularly shown in a positive attitude towards citizens. Of course, this is an extensive and long process only in that regulations are being adequately improved and, on the other hand, that the mentality of public servants is also being adequately changed, precisely in that direction, which has been highlighted here, it is that the state is, because of people, not people because of the state. Next, as regards last year's decision relating to post-war killings. Here I would just like to draw attention to what the government has given in its report on the implementation of these conclusions. I think a lot of effort has been made to make the War Cemetery Act, however you evaluate it here, shaped in a way that would be appropriate, which would be pathetic. Now this law stands before the second hearing, and I think it's regrettable. If this high assembly had found that solutions were not appropriate, it would probably have been better to reject them than to postpone them. This is my personal opinion here at the end, and we did not define ourselves in the government. Disposal is not the best way to solve the problem. Regarding the harmonisation of laws with the Constitution - you had an internal policy committee review on how the current situation was. There is a great deal of government attention to this issue. If we were to compare how many cases there were, how many of them there were, and how many there are now, I think I can claim that this is about improving the situation. Denationalisation was also mentioned. The government is drawing up a plan to complete this process, because it is of course a time to do so. But there is quite a problem, and it is not just a question of will, whether it will be over very soon or not. With regard to the environment - this issue has been highlighted in particular by Mrs Črnugljeva. The report on the state of the environment will be presented next Friday and is currently under interdepartmental treatment. The problem of overcrowding prisons is also partly rooted in the lack or absence of transitional provisions of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions adopted in 2000, because there were unfortunately no financial possibilities for immediate implementation at the time. And maybe just one more thing that we're back in jail, and I'll be done with it. It is a very intensive effort to properly regulate health care in prisons, in particular by integrating this care into the public health system, with adequate supervision and everything else that comes with it. Thank you very much for the thorough consideration and I hope that these explanations have at least contributed a little to integrity.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I might be able to help with this embarrassment myself. The fact is that, at the time of consideration of the 7th Regular Report, it was possible to make recommendations that were adopted within the framework of the Internal Policy Committee, the actual proposal for recommendations could be submitted to the chapter of the report by the beginning of the consideration of this point at the national assembly. So the amendments tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group and by Mr Jožef Jerovšek were put on the table. It is undeniable that all the parliamentary groups under this item are scheduled for time, of course without realizing that the amendments will come to the table, they will be spent. In this case, I believe that it is appropriate for me to apply Article 67, paragraph 6, so that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the President, may decide that the time for consideration of the item or debate shall be extended but not more than an hour. The only time I can see is before the vote on this point at the evening part of the vote, given that we have already specified the other points. This must also be decided by the National Assembly. If, according to my assessment, any situation is appropriate for this type of application of the business provision, it was today that the amendments, which is a large number, came to the table because the Rules of Procedure allow it. If you allow me, I would interrupt this point for two reasons - because we have spent all our time in the general debate, which also - allow me, Mr Bernik, to conclude - which I am also concluding, and, of course, to consider, the debate that follows, this is a possible debate on the proposal for recommendations and the amendments tabled, take into account, of course, the decision of the National Assembly to extend the consideration of this item to a maximum of one hour in the evening before the vote on the amendments and the proposal for recommendations. The President may take the right to propose this. I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we stop this point, that at the time of our decision, the National Assembly decide on this proposal, and continue to discuss the amendments tabled and the proposal for recommendations from the labour force within one hour. We've run out of time. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u98	Procedurally. I would like to know if I have the right to respond to the intentional deception of the Ombudsman, who has responded to something that I have not brought in at all on a day, and has passed by after all else. I protest such conduct, especially by a person who should know what it is about. Do I have a right?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, if you've listened to me carefully, we've been crossing this point in two minutes. I am taking advantage of the business possibility and I propose to the National Assembly that in the evening part we reopen the debate on the proposal for recommendations of the parent working body and amendments that address all issues within one hour.In that time, you will also be able to clear your disagreement or misunderstanding with the respectable Lord of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your cooperation, Your Honor. If we understand each other correctly, in the evening work the National Assembly will continue to discuss the amendments tabled and also kindly invited to this point. And we continue and move on to 27. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2000. The proposal for a final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2000 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to a representative of the government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mag. Helena Kamnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u100	Dear Members and Members! You have before you a proposal for a final budget account for the year 2000, which came to the National Assembly at the beginning of January 2002. All this time until this point, a discussion took place, a few meetings being held within the framework of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the National Assembly, and only the audit report of the final budget account was subsequently completed within the framework of this Commission. I may briefly present the key points arising from the final budget account and, in fact, represent a picture of the implementation of the budget in 2000. The adopted budget was based on the basic objectives, baselines and orientations of the macroeconomic policy resulting from the 2000 budgetary memorandum. The macroeconomic aggregates achieved have had an impact on the lower realisation of budgetary revenues and overall public financial revenues in 2000, while at the same time facilitating higher wage growth and higher growth of social transfers as foreseen in the 2000 budget. As a result of such macroeconomic developments, which were largely the result of a different movement of domestic consumption, exports and imports from planned ones, the year 2000 ended with substantially lower revenues of around 37 billion than originally planned. Since the budget balance was not adopted in 2000 to balance the revenue and expenditure side, the government reached out to the instrument of temporary adjustment of the revenue and expenditure side in such a way as to redistribute the budgetary expenditure to those segments that constituted the provision of legal obligations and thus fulfilled, in fact, all the legal obligations arising from the legislation and from the budget. On the other hand, it ended the year in such a way that a large part of the outstanding liabilities from 2000 were transferred to 2001. These commitments amounted to about 24.5 billion tolars. This, of course, later led to difficulties in the implementation of the 2001 budget and, above all, to its design. But we will talk about this at the end of the 2001 budget. The audit of the final account has identified some shortcomings in the final account itself, which mainly relate to non-compliance with the gross principle enshrined in the Public Finance Act. However, errors have also been identified in the implementation of the financial plans of individual budgetary users, as, I think, ten direct budgetary users had a negative opinion or opinion with reservations after the revision of the budget implementation. The most common errors identified in the audit process were errors in payment of salaries, errors in the enforcement of the Public Procurement Act and some other, more technical errors where there was no intentional or malicious use of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances as the parent working body. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Mark Diacija, to present the report of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! At its 16th meeting, on 11.6.2002, on 14.6.2002, the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, at its second meeting, on 20.6.2002, and at its third meeting, on 16.10.2002, considered a proposal for a final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2000. In its introduction, the President of the Commission pointed out that, in assessing the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2000, the Commission had to take as a basis for the discussion the opinion of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which it had submitted in the audit report on the accounts. In order to make it easier for the Commission to discuss the Court of Auditors’ report, the President of the Commission asked the President of the Court of Auditors to explain to the Commission the methodology for the audit of the final budget account. This one did it in writing and orally. The President of the Court of Auditors explained that the revision of the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2000 included the revision of the general part of the final accounts and the revision of the correctness of the implementation of the financial plans of the individual direct budgetary users. In the audit of the general part of the final account, the Court of Auditors audited the balance of revenue and expenditure, the financial statements and investments, the financing account. The purpose of this audit was to verify whether the accounts of the general part of the final account show a correct and genuine picture. On the basis of the audit carried out, the audit report was issued with an opinion with reservation. In addition, 19 individual audits involving 15 ministries and 4 government services were carried out in order to revise the correctness of the implementation of the financial plans for individual direct budgetary users. The purpose of these audits was to test whether the auditors correctly reported expenditure in the final accounts of the 2000 financial plans and whether the auditors had implemented the 2000 financial plans in accordance with the rules. 13 positive opinions, 4 opinions with reservations and two negative opinions were put forward on the presentation of the expenditure. However, 3 positive opinions, 10 opinions with reservations and 6 negative opinions were given on the correctness of the implementation of the financial plans. The issue of the integrity of the audit and the treatment of the final account was most highlighted in the debate. It was found that the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, in its audit opinion on the final accounts of the budget for 2000, took into account only the revision of the general part of the budget. The Court of Auditors also audited 19 direct budgetary users and delivered separate opinions on their operations. For some of them, it is also negative, but these opinions were not taken into account when giving an opinion on the implementation of the final budget account as a whole. [[Warning tone.]] The Court of Auditors considered that the audit of the final budget account contained an audit report on the general budget and the audit reports on the operations of 19 budget users. Accordingly, the Court of Auditors has sent to the government an updated audit report, a report on the general budget, 19 audits of budgetary users and additional clarifications, and the Government has taken note of such an audit report and completed the proposal for a final budget account. Thus, the Government further forwarded to the National Assembly an updated comprehensive audit report and conclusions adopted in this regard. The government has also provided corrections to the explanations of individual budgetary users identified by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances in previous cases. With these additional materials, the Commission considers that it is only possible to adopt the final budget account for 2000 at the meeting of the National Assembly. At the end of the discussion, the Commission adopted certain conclusions under its competence. They are listed in the report of the Commission. The Commission further proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt, in accordance with Rule 168 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2000. In addition, with a view to improving the quality of reporting on the implementation of the State budget, the Commission proposes to the State assembly to adopt the two clusters referred to in the Commission's joint report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. This is followed by a debate. First, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, then a debate of Members and Members, all within the time notified by the groups of Members: LDS 25, SLS 3, Nova Slovenija 10, DeSUS 5 and SNS 10 minutes. First of all, Mr Ivan Kebrič has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, co-worker, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a final account, a report on the implementation of the budget in 2000. The Global Public Finance Balance and the 2000 State Budget were prepared on the basis of baselines, objectives and direction of the 2000 budget memorandum. In it, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia defined the key objectives of macroeconomic policy, dynamic economic growth and at the same time announced a further decline in inflation. For the purpose of its policy, the government has designed a budgetary orientation, set down inflation and foster economic growth and, of course, supported by fiscal and budgetary policies to contain the overall public financial deficit in 2000 at 1% of gross social product. In its draft budget, the government presented in detail individual macroeconomic baselines, together with an assessment of the trends achieved. A more accurate overview of the 2000 final budget account shows that the drafter did not avoid a type of error, which indicates a significant weakness in the management of the public funds provided by the budget. The revenue and expenditure balance did not include income from the surplus of the Bank of Slovenia expenditure and interest on the issue of the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia [[16.]] . Liquid expenditure was also understated. The proposer has shown too much investment expenditure and too little investment transfer [[example: Sava power plants]] . The budget preparer was also not careful enough when displaying financial claims and investments. Thus, insufficient remuneration has been shown and too much expenditure has been shown to increase capital shares. In its audit, the Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation on the final accounts of the 2000 budget We need to know that in some cases, out of 19 individual reports relating to individual budget consumers, the Court of Auditors has issued a very negative opinion. The representative of the Court of Auditors drew attention to the lack of functioning of the internal controls of ministries in the area of the allocation of budgetary resources to end-users. As we find that these do not work satisfactorily, we are concerned in DeSUS that internal controls are not yet functioning properly. While we understand that the real system of internal controls is only being established, slowness in this area allows for uncontrolled treatment of public funds. In the view of DeSUS, the more effective functioning of internal controls on the one hand would ensure greater legality of operation and transparency in the use of public funds, which, in our view, would also be reflected in more rational and reduced consumption and would result in more savings. It is clear from the permanent budget reserve that this is never sufficient for the needs defined by the law. Various damage, disasters, accidents require more and more resources, so in DeSUS we believe that systemic legislation should be put in place to encourage citizens to be protected against natural disasters and to be saved in budgetary reserves. In the DeSUS, we believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should take into account the current findings of the Court of Auditors in future when the final accounts are submitted and that their audits or their audit findings should be used to remedy the current accounts, namely their shortcomings. We also believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should speed up the establishment of an internal control system while strengthening the responsibility of the holders of these tasks. In our opinion
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u105	Mr. Kebrich, I'm sorry, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u106	It is not permissible for the budget to be managed in such a way at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to really stick to the amount of time you're booking, otherwise we're going to run into a deficit. The Social Democratic Party, the position is to be presented by Mr Kelemina. [[He's not here.]] Slovenian People's Party, not at all. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u108	Respectable present. What is the final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and what happens if we do not accept it? The answer to the first question is concrete, nothing happens unless we accept it. There's no consequences. The final account is one of those acts in which this State Assembly, at the time of confirmation, has been a practice, despite the findings of the Court of Auditors, which, on the one hand, can also be understood as a non-truster to the government, is not a confidant to those departments or institutions whose opinions have been issued with reservations or negative, but nothing will happen and this State Assembly will adopt it in advance. In the Slovenian National Party of the Final Account, we will not confirm this because it seems completely pointless to us, as this would make it possible for the Slovenian Government, the Ministry of Finance, to gain a green path for its financial policy from a particular political party. We are convinced, however, that financial policy in this country is negative and harmful for the present and for future development. By confirming the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2000, we estimate that nothing else is achieved than, for the first time, that this is a confirmation of the public finances policy, which we all know is wrong in ourselves and that it leads only to the debt that is known in the final stage in public debt and in the sale of state property. Secondly, this means, perhaps a little more concretely, the confirmation of future budgetary policy, which is reflected only in the system of simple indexation of raising existing items without originality. We will not confirm the final account in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views, I apologize, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u110	Well-welcome, and in particular the government representatives who have joined us at this point. In the course of the 2000 final account debate, the National Assembly and the Slovenian public should be noted that our young Slovenian country is at the lowest level of development in an area called public accounting in front of taxpayers. This is shown first of all by the fact that the National Assembly has never managed to deal with the final accounts of the State budget before considering the adoption of the budget plan for the coming financial year. It also appears that we have not yet adopted it in due time in the National Assembly, by 1 October of the year following the financial year for which the final account is accepted, as provided for by the Public Finance Act. Is it really possible that a good master is someone who is not interested in whether his plans have been implemented legally, economically, effectively and successfully? All of this shows that the majority of the national council is not interested in how the implementation of what is formally confirmed by the adoption of the budget plan. She does not care what the Supreme Audit Institution, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, finds in its audit reports. The Court of Auditors is also an institution gradually upgrading its mission. Whether it can be at all successful if Parliament is not interested in the audit report on the accounts and the implementation of the budget, when it submits them, or whether it is late in doing so and, of course, what it notes in them. In such situations, we can also see that the Court of Auditors constantly amends the methodology for the submission of audit opinions to the final budget account, although there are no objective reasons for this, no changes to the rules. Thus, the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, which in 2002 dealt with the two final accounts of the State budget, for 2000 and 2001, met with the fact that the Court of Auditors had submitted the audit opinion for the final account 2000 which we are considering today only to the general part of the final account, without taking into account the audit opinions given to individual ministries. These were also negative and with reservations. On the basis of the debate and the arguments before the Commission, the Court of Auditors, after all, found that it was only wrong and, by correcting, informed us that Members of the National Assembly today must take into account both the audit opinions given to individual ministries and the audit opinion delivered to the general part of the 2000 budget. Otherwise, we do not know what the common audit opinion for the Final Account 2000 is, we could call it an opinion with reservation. In order to argue for unjustified changes in the methodology for the submission of audit opinions by the Court of Auditors, I must say that the Court of Auditors, contrary to the 2001 accounts, will, I hope, only issue a joint audit report and a common audit opinion for the Government for 2001 as a whole. This opinion is negative. On the basis of corrections to the 2000 audit opinions, the Government has also formally re-examined these opinions from individual ministries, for the implementation of the 2000 budget, and has adopted several decisions relating to so-called corrections, actions, remedial actions or measures to address irregularities identified. What their destiny is, we are to be introduced today by the government, the Court of Auditors, as the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances. That would be the case in democratic parliamentary democracy. Let me recall, however, that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Procedure for the Adoption of the Final Accounts of the Budget do not properly govern and also that the ruling coalition has rejected the amendments of the Slovenian Coalition to this Rules of Procedure in this part. Everything that is so messy, as I briefly said, because the National Assembly or, more correctly, the majority in it does not want to seriously address the audit opinions on the implementation of the State budget, today, in the consideration of the Audit Report on the Final Account in 2000, we already know that the situation in the implementation of the 2001 budget has not improved, but has worsened. The Public Procurement Act continues and in many cases breaches, repeats and increases illegalities that have been identified in previous years, budget programmes are implemented without clear objectives and criteria for verifying their actual implementation. Even in the final accounts for 2001, the National Assembly does not have an overview of the central government’s assets balance sheet, or at least parts, such as the financial statements, the actual assets report, the report on outstanding liabilities to suppliers, the report on commitments to pay in the coming years and so on, or does not have all that is required by the International Monetary Fund’s Fiscal Transparency Code to Member States wishing to ensure fiscal transparency. When the President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, asks the Prime Minister why the Government is also in the final account for 2001, as well as for 2000 and has not informed the general public about the management of the State's assets, and this is contrary to the second paragraph of Article 146 of the Constitution of Slovenia, the majority in the National Assembly considers that he has not raised the question. Whether the Prime Minister may not be obliged to know that the basic components of the final account, the statement of revenue and expenditure and the statement of assets are, and that the problem that the assets balance is not an integral part of the final account is also noted by the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Dr. Andrej Bajuk, who is not, Janez Janša, also not, won by Jelinčič Nobility, Branko Kelemina, Sašo Peče, Franz Pukšič. These were notified for discussion. No one is there, so given that the time for discussion has not yet passed, I ask if anyone wishes to discuss any further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The adoption of the accounts will be decided today at 5.30 p.m., in accordance with the timing of the meeting, on the proposal for a decision, but not on the proposals of the two decisions proposed by the home working body and appointed as decisions under the jurisdiction of the national assembly. In the new Rules of Procedure, the only decision the National Assembly may propose in relation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is provided for in Rule 237 of its Rules of Procedure. These proposed decisions are not of this nature in the report and we will therefore decide on the proposal for a decision in the first part, as proposed by the home labour body. Thank you very much to the representative and the representative of the government. I hereby end this agenda item and continue at 1635 with the consideration of the 28th item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u112	Dear, distinguished, representative and representative of the government, nice greeting! We're moving to 28. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a resolution on the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to a government representative. State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior, Dr. Bojan Bulgarian. Here you go. You can go to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u113	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members! You have before you a motion for a resolution on migration policy. The resolution was prepared and inter-resortically coordinated according to the Government's decision of 25.10.2001. The proposed resolution on the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia, based on Article 5 of the Aliens Act, confirms and complements the principles, objectives and foundations of the previous resolution on the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia of 1999, with an emphasis on measures to implement it in the context of modern migration movements and new approaches to the development of a common policy on migration and asylum of the European Union. The introductory part of the resolution, which, inter alia, points out both the positive side of migration and the negative side, is followed by a review of interstate migration and an assessment of the state of implementation of migration policy in Slovenia. Some statistical indicators of migration movements in the Republic of Slovenia are compared. The introductory part also presents a brief analysis of the legislation adopted so far and the implementation of migration policy. The fundamental principles of the creation of migration policy are then followed, which have also been defined in the previous resolution and do not change and remain the same in view of their universal application. The resolution below describes the starting points of the strategy for a common policy on migration and asylum in the European Union, which accurately describes the categories in which this strategy is expressed. The following are the basics of migration policy, which are determined in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the principles of migration policy, further elements of migration policy, their interlinkages and other factors. Due to the complexity of the area of migration, the resolution identifies policies that together form a migration policy. This is an asylum policy, an immigration policy, a migration management policy, which is particularly concerned with preventing illegal migration and combating migrant smuggling and trafficking, while protecting victims, and an integration policy, including the active prevention of discrimination, xenophobia and racism. The resolution lists activities that will lead to a single systemic approach and the implementation of migration policy. Then there are measures to implement the migration policy set out in Chapter 8. In order to implement all the measures planned, the resolution foresees, which I would like to stress, a very important novelty that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must also appoint a working group within six months of the implementation of the resolution, composed of experts from all the departments concerned by migration, in order to prepare and implement possible measures to implement the principles and objectives of migration policy. I would like to stress that the resolution on migration policy can achieve its objectives, along with the other policies already defined in the resolutions already adopted by this National Assembly, namely the resolution on national security, the resolution on Slovenians around the world and the resolution on economic policy. I would also like to point out that the objective of the resolution, as in other modern European countries, is to strike a balance on the one hand between economic needs and the preservation of Slovenian national identity. As I have pointed out earlier, one of the very important innovations and measures is the creation of a Migration Council which will have to propose the adoption of measures aimed at concrete migration events and also allow for a rapid and flexible response to changes in the external world. Just one example, such as an increase in requests for asylum of the Kurds of Iraq due to the danger of intervention, has led to an increase in these requests already today. So, I would say, opposite events also require appropriate changes to the measures in this country. A very important change is also the measure introduced by the amended Article 5 of the Aliens Act, which this National Assembly has turned into the latest amendment to the Foreigners Act, which leaves the previous Automatism. The previous Aliens Act stipulated that the resolution should be adopted every two years, but this is now regulated by the resolution being amended when events change substantially, allowing the country a much more flexible approach to addressing these problems. It is probably not necessary to emphasise or overemphasize that the problem of migration is one of the most difficult phenomena of global policy facing all countries. It is therefore essential that the country also has a sufficiently appropriate framework, a legal framework to ensure that it responds in a timely and timely manner to events in its surroundings. Let me finish. If you remember, two years ago, when we first faced an increase in asylum applications in this country, many talked about the asylum crisis. Things were pretty messy. After two years, I would like to say that the areas are substantially different. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Since I've already exceeded my time, maybe I can add another point to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution addressed the Committee on Internal Policy as its parent working body. I give the floor to a member of the Committee Dušan Vukko for presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! At its 27th regular meeting on 8 November, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed a motion for a resolution on the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and reception by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative stressed that this was a country's strategy paper on migration and that it was adopted under Article 5 of the Aliens Act. It was pointed out that the proposed resolution had four essential components: the principle of the creation of migration policy, fundamental migration policy, migration policy instruments and measures to implement migration policy. On the basis of the views of the legislative and legal service, the Committee further adopted amendments to the individual chapters of the motion for a resolution, which are reflected in the report. Following the adoption of these amendments and the debate held, the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Internal Policy Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a motion for a resolution on the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia, together with amendments adopted by the Committee."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Ivan Kebrič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Our position on the motion for a resolution is as follows. Following the fall of the Berlin Wall, the change in the political system and the emergence of new countries in Eastern, Central and South-Eastern Europe, the war in our immediate vicinity, and the close involvement in globalisation flows, prompted the emergence of a new migration situation. Countries faced many problems that were not so complex until then. They demanded a new concept of solutions, taking into account all the positive, and also the negative, effects that have been shown mainly by increasing the number and activities of various criminal groups, mainly in the areas of the former Soviet Union and the former Yugoslavia. These associations are and are still engaged in illegal migration, smuggling of migrants and trafficking in human beings. On the other hand, taking into account the generational changes in Europe, the fact that the population is old and national growth is negative in most European countries, a very large economic interest and, consequently, a political interest after the adoption of foreign, particularly highly skilled labour. All of this has required a strategy for a common policy of migration and asylum in the European Union. Slovenia is a candidate for full EU membership, adopting this strategy, providing it with a single migration system with the Member States of the European Union, as well as access to information in this area, ensuring greater stability and national security. Slovenia is in the sense of irregular migration in the position of a transitional state, as most of the transitionees have an interest in joining or arriving in larger countries where they see greater economic and other employment opportunities. The most illegal crossings of the state border in Slovenia were recorded in the second half of the 1990s, mainly in the areas of South-Eastern Europe, the Balkans and countries, from politically unstable areas such as Iraq, Iran, Turkey, Albania, not to list others. The highest number of asylum seekers was in the years following the war in the former Yugoslavia, especially in 1998-2000. Due to the consequences of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are still 2,606 citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina with temporary detention in Slovenia. With regard to economic migrants, we are in a situation similar to that of EU Member States in Slovenia. We have an average population of older people. But natural growth is low. We estimate that the problem of ageing in the future will be crucial to us as action will be required in providing labour and production in the country. In this regard, it should also be noted that the consequences can be seen in the State budget and in view of the reduction in the number of active population and insured persons also in the pension register. We therefore believe that in the field of migration policy, attention should be paid to ensuring the flow of highly skilled labour, not only from EU Member States, but also from other countries of Europe and the world. This would not only be a solution for the budget and pension fund mentioned earlier, but also for the economic progress of all. From the data available to us, we can assess that there has been no significant progress on this issue, which is also confirmed by statistical data In the education structure of foreign employees, unskilled workers are mainly or mostly from the republics of the former Yugoslavia. That's the conclusion. The amount that allows and allows the admission of 5% of foreign workers, given the number of active people, is only 44% of us. We will support the resolution in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Government Representative, esteemed colleague and colleague! The definition of migration as one of the forms of manifestation of freedom of movement, as set out in the draft resolution on migration policy, highlights in particular the positive aspect of the phenomenon under consideration, which enables an individual to realize greater opportunities, such as economic, political, cultural, professional and other, to improve his or her situation, in extreme cases even preserving his or her life. In life, however, we are also faced with a negative aspect, when migration means being crushed by just as much as the great Slovenian national body, which is particularly painful when it is primarily associated with the most capable individuals and with the inability to accept immigrants and their freedom of movement and immigrants, some even feel threatened. The monitoring of media responses to this phenomenon two years ago confirms this claim. The dimension and massity of the phenomenon are therefore essential to the formulation of a state policy based on the established principles of the already adopted resolution on migration policy, which, on the one hand, underlines international solidarity and responsibility, as well as responsibility for citizens and the state, respect for law and human rights, and, on the other, long-term economic benefits. As it cannot be avoided that Europe is not prepared for the consequences of strong migratory flows, which do not have only positive effects that the economists point to, the resolution describes the starting points of the strategy for a common migration and asylum policy in the European Union, according to the United List of Social Democrats. The resolution also identifies elements of migration policy, their interlinkages and other factors. In this regard, it seems important to us to focus on preventing illegal migration and often related smuggling of migrants and trafficking in human beings, following a European direction towards greater protection for victims. The United List of Social Democrats in this regard mainly points to integration policy. This must find effective means to prevent discrimination, xenophobia and racism, although we do not like to acknowledge that we are witnesses to such phenomena. It also underlines the measures taken to implement migration policy and our expectation that the resolution will provide for the establishment of a working group in which experts from different ministries responsible for individual aspects of agency, office, organisation and individual migration policy will not only be carried out within the time frame but will also be effective. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support and support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you, Vice President. Allow me to introduce one wicked thought. I've been booked here all afternoon to perform on behalf of the parliamentary group, but the worst is only coming at the following points, and I'll only be the right one. However, I would like to say that the Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the resolution on the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed resolution on migration policy, which we are considering today, is indeed a complement to the first resolution we have adopted in Slovenia. It preserves its principles, its main objectives and its foundations. It is based on the fact that migration represents one of the main dimensions of human freedoms and that every human being has the right to move out of any country and the right to return to his country of nationality. In the Slovenian People's Party, as a party to the European guidelines and also to conservative political orientations, we come from respect for man as a person. For only man as a person is an appropriate criterion for us to evaluate human rights in relation to migration. We would like to support the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, not to be overlooked, that the right to move as a right of movement is also guaranteed by Article 32 of the Constitution. However, the level of migration will continue to increase in the coming years, in line with analyses and based on their expectations. However, taking into account economic analyses, migration is largely a positive phenomenon. From the perspective of the company, they have too often a negative foretaste as they are often linked to the threat of state borders, state security and the abuse of asylum systems. The situation is further exacerbated by the attitude of the domestic population, which often sees a threat in them, both because of economic and political changes and because of the fear of diversity itself. In view of the current changes in the European space, the resolution also presents a consequential change in the geographical patterns of migration, such as that the countries of migration have become countries of immigration. In addition to geographical changes, there is also a diversity in the intensity of migration, education categories and various reasons, which also affects the reactions of people, countries and communities of countries. Given that there is a trend in migration management and migration movements at regional levels in the European Union, with the same global interest in migration management, this can only reflect conflicts of interest in defining migration categories and how to regulate, both in the areas of legal migration and in the area of human trafficking. The Republic of Slovenia represents to a large extent a transitional country for migrants on their way to Western Europe. As such, it already has its place in the Central-East European Migration System, which will undoubtedly affect the further design, both Slovenian and common European migration policy. Most of the previous resolutions of the proposed laws and regulations have been adopted. The harmonisation of this area's legislation with the EU's order takes place successfully and positively. Nevertheless, of course, it has not yet been fully completed. I would also like to highlight an opinion that we think is important to the effective design of migration policy, which is the importance of cross-cutting cooperation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the positions of the Member States. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Two attended, first Mrs Majda Zupan, then Roman Jakič. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Migration movements have been and will probably be in the future. In recent times, however, the phenomenon of international migration has also been linked to negative signs, and I am referring to the abuse of asylum, the lack of control over border crossings and the great threat to national and international security. The estimated number of international migrants in 2000 was 150 million, mostly in Asia and immediately thereafter in Europe. The principle of free movement of people, capital, goods and services also affected immigration and immigrants and changed the structure of immigrants in many ways. It is reflected in the highly skilled workforce, in the search for asylum and in irregular entry. In Slovenia too, the foreign population has increased in recent years and is slightly over 35,000 with the current temporary foreign status. However, male immigration with a low formal education predominates. In view of the knowledge that certain policies, either security, external, social, health, have not fully aligned themselves with the principles and objectives of the migration policy and that, too often, there has been a lack of compliance with the proposed resolution, in particular to complement the measures taken to implement the first resolution already adopted. The appointment of a working group composed of representatives of the ministries, the Owl, the Immigration and Refugee Office and other representatives also seems important. In recent years, several laws have been adopted for this area, namely the Asylum Act, the Aliens Act, the Police Act, the Employment Act and amendments to the Citizenship Act and the State Border Control. However, I do not believe that the resolution will solve the matter. It is true that we cannot, in principle, oppose the resolution as such, but I believe that more responsibility and action is needed for those who design and implement different policies in the field of migration flows as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Vice President. In fact, migration is one of the dimensions of human freedoms, and in this light, of course, we must also address migration movements that are increasing, which is not bad in itself, as many economic analyses show that migration is beneficial for all societies. Unfortunately, today it is very common that the phenomenon of international migration is linked to negative emphasis, such as the abuse of asylum systems, lack of State border control, rejection of immigrants, stereotypes as we have heard in the Ombudsman's report. It's a drug stereotype, prostitution, crime and so on. Modern migration movements differ according to type and geographical patterns from those of the past. The emergence of a post-industrial pattern of migration represents the last of these waves of migration after World War II and covers three relatively different components: highly skilled labour force, asylum search and irregular movement. In fact, the principles of the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia follow the conclusions of the European Council adopted in Tamper in October 1999 and set out the elements of the strategy for a common policy on migration and asylum. I am pleased that the basis of the principle is based on respect for law and human rights. However, it is interesting that the Slovenian state does not do much with the written principle of the principle of long-term macroeconomic benefits. Thus, the definition of the criterion for the controlled admission of migrants in relation to demand on the labour market and capital market. Examples of good respect for this principle can be found in history. In America during World War II, scientists fled there and helped them build nuclear weapons and develop nuclear power, and von Braun, if you want, if you want, if you've captured them towards the end of the war, he's put them on the moon. After the breakup of the Soviet Union, however, the Americans imported a great deal of professional labour from the former Soviet countries with economic mechanisms. After World War II, Germany deliberately imported Turks as a labour force, and now intentionally imports highly qualified Indians, recruited in India and introduced to them the possibilities of life and employment in Germany. The bearer of these programs is the German government. More about this in Mladina was written by his colleague Jaš Zlobec. As I am aware, they have produced studies on how many experts they would need and what activities they carry out and the direction in which they acquire these personnel. We are not in Slovenia after the break-up of Yugoslavia and we still have no programme or plan to attract intellectuals from a less developed world. Also from the former republics of SFRJ. And we didn't know how to attract them from the very beginning. Migration policy covers only the granting of work visas in our country, and this process is complicated, namely the unskilled workforce, which companies do on their own. The country expects companies to import highly qualified workers in a similar way. The truth is, I only know one case in my heart: Hermes Softlab, who did it. We have no programmes to define what immigrants we want, how much and how to lure them to Slovenia. Furthermore, we do not have any real education programme for immigrants who choose to live in Slovenia, except for language learning, where immigrants would be familiar with the history, culture of the country in which they will live. Of course, you can find such programs in America and in Europe, Scandinavian countries are ahead. There, by the way, they've also been talking about the structure of migrants to help raise birthrates. The fact is that Slovenia needs immigrants, as does all of Europe. Instead of waiting for which of the migrants will literally "get lost" in Slovenia, it is necessary to make an analysis, which and how and of course programme, how to attract them. We are thus missing the opportunity that we missed at the breakup of the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the motion for a resolution. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments of 27.11.2002. These are all the proposals of the amendment of the parent working body, this is the political committee. In the debate, I am putting the Committee's amendment to the first paragraph by noting that it is substantively linked to the first part of the amendment to Chapter I. Introduction, and it is in fact a transfer of part of the text to Title I. Introduction. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am opening the debate on Chapter I. Introduction with the same remark that it is substantively linked to an amendment that was not wanted to be discussed. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Chapter I. Introduction. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Committee to Chapter II. Review of interstate migration and assessment of the state of implementation of migration policy in Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. We are moving to the debate on Chapter III. The proposed committee is, namely, the principles of the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Committee to Chapter IV. The elements of migration policy. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. The Committee's last amendment to Chapter VIII of the Action for the Implementation of Migration Policy. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments and the resolution will be voted on in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today at 5.30 p.m. I'm sorry. At the time of the general discussion, the representatives of the Government did not take the floor. Then there was an open debate on each amendment. Once we have exhausted the debate on the amendments, there is no more general debate. In my work, after presenting the views of the parliamentary group, two representatives of the government were notified, and I regret that no one has come forward in this part. Then the debate is limited only to individual amendments. Allow me to inform you that we will also vote in the evening work at 5.30 p.m. on the proposal for a resolution on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the Slovenian railway public enterprise. Thank you very much. This concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u127	Colleagues and colleagues, please calm down because we will continue the work of the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the decisions of today's meeting and the second item on the agenda of this meeting, so that we will first vote on the points on which we have already concluded the debate. We're going to break two. Agenda item - Proposal for a Decision on the schedule of the previous legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending and privatising the public undertaking of Slovenian Railway D. D. The assembly decided on Tuesday, 26.11.2002 on this agenda item - Please note! - that the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment gives an opinion on the proposal for a decision on the clarity of the question raised, in accordance with Article 15 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative. The report of the committee of this meeting was received on the bench. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Committee if he wishes to have another word. [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled by the Committee in the report of the Committee of 28.11.2002. I am putting forward an amendment to point II in the debate. Anyone want a word on this amendment? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on this amendment and we will vote on it. We're voting on the amendment. There's not enough of us here. Please check your voting devices to see if you have any cards inserted or a burning light on the card. I hope that everything is okay now and we will repeat the vote. We will vote on the amendment to point II. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall make amendments to point III in the debate and decision-making. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll decide on the amendment. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. There are 51 of us present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] Amendment to point III. has been adopted. And the amendment to point IV. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's go make a decision. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 40 votes against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] This amendment has also been adopted. We have thus concluded the debate and the vote on the amendments and are moving on to a decision on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the public enterprise Slovenske železnica, d.d. I will put this motion to the vote. You want an explanation of the voice? Mrs. Majda Shirca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The rules we have dictate that I vote in favour of the previous legislative referendum. But the news tells me I'm against him. So that I do not violate either one of them or the other, I will abstain from voting, but I will explain why. I think the proposal is controversial, and we have debated a lot on it and on the Committee, because I believe that the issue may not be so obvious on paper or not at all, but in practice it will certainly be a question, as it is raised, in the present, also the amended, form unclear. It foresees that every citizen and every citizen will have to seek a proposal for a law to transform and privatise the public undertaking of the Slovenian Railway, the real one will have to come to it physically, only in this way will he be able to know what he agrees with or disagrees with. Of course, the proposer knew that people would not go to this marriage brother, I suppose, so he also offered solutions that were, and even I say, conditionally demagogic, but which is not even the worst. The worst part is that these solutions, as they are now in the indents, will be binding in the event of a positive outcome of the referendum. This means that any legal solution that will then follow in resolving the issue of the Slovenian Railways would be linked to the indents set out in this questionnaire. At the same time, an additional legal question could also be raised as to whether the referendum issue, as has now been adopted and recast by the Committee, is in line with the will of the forty thousand signatories, since we have eventually changed in some points the debate on the issues themselves, the date of implementation and the date of implementation. I think there are enough doubts that I am entitled to abstain from voting for this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you. Anyone else want an explanation for the voice? Jez Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u130	I'll vote against it. If I do not have this option, then it is pointless to do anything and vote if we are committed to the referendum being signed, it can be signed without us. But I will vote against this because, for the reasons mentioned above, we will run 500 million for the referendum, and we have been doing this skillfully for quite some time now, and it seems that, with our help here in Parliament, this madness will also happen in the future when we ask people about something and they have no idea what we are asking them. At the same time, this referendum is a protection for some people on Slovenian railways who would like to maintain the status quo so that, in terms of reorganisation, rationalisation on Slovenian railways, this country should do nothing and continue to remain in all the irrationalities of the state nursery. That is why I cannot support such a solution, but let anyone see it as they want, because it is also my civic one, unless it is already my duty to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I have to explain, that's the law we have. The conditions for the invitation to tender shall be met. The request is therefore justified and the national assembly must take a decision on this. Mr. Leo Kremjar, then Miran Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much. What you said by the chairman is true. The conditions for the referendum are, people's will is expressed, so of course it's perfectly legitimate and it has to be. I will do the same as my colleague, Shirtz, which means I will not vote, even though I respect the will of the people and therefore will not plead, not for, not against, because of this will. However, I will not vote because the worst referendum is that referendum, which ultimately gives an opportunity for such or other interpretations. This issue will be very seriously pointed out to the Infrastructure Committee. This issue, as it is asked, provides an opportunity for different interpretations already in advance. We have in the past had a series of different interpretations and some referendums to interpret one another in this way today, another. I think that's too bad. This is a pity that is done to all these people who have signed in good faith that they want this matter to go to a referendum. I think it's right for them to do that, too, and it's right for us to go to a referendum. That's how I feel about it. Only the result is that I fear that there will be a hundred different interpretations again and that the effect that the proponents want will not be achieved and that we would also like to have a clear view of what people think about the proposed issues. I am sorry that this question has come to be so complicated, so wide that it does not give the possibility of a simpler answer than that. That's why I'm going to do what I've foretold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you for this explanation for your vote. Quiet Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will abstain from voting. My reason for abstaining is that I voted in favour of the amendment with the proposal that has been adopted, but I voted in favour of the amendment because the text is better than the original, demands and warnings adopted by this national assembly that the issue is not clear, are not resolved. The question remains unclear. The reason for my abstention is also in my warning that the National Assembly, including the working bodies and including the professional service, should put in place a fundamental position on these issues: that the referendum question can really only reflect the content of the law and the questions that can and must be regulated by law, that it must be non-deceptive, but objectively, given the actual content that does not, otherwise, correspond to the fact. I agree that the referendum should then be declared. For me, however, referendum issues should be the following: that the Slovenian Railway public undertaking acts as a public and single undertaking; this is one indisputable requirement; that all those activities that are important for ensuring safe and orderly transport are included in the undertaking; this is another requirement that is not clear from this law; and that, in the event of privatisation, it is privatised as a whole and that the state retains more than 50 per cent. These are all questions that can be handled differently from this law. This is what is possible, everything else is too much for marriage, because this marriage simply cannot be regulated. I think that just such an approach to the National Assembly will gradually lead us to be aware of the seriousness [[the warning sign for the end.]] the responsibility we have in relation to the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I would only have warned earlier that there is no more time to discuss and the time to make proposals is the time to explain to the vote. Mag. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I will support the proposal in particular for this reason, because this proposal has been designed as the last option for the people working in these railways that know this system, and not least for all others who may have a slightly more professional view of the future of this important system. If we remember correctly, it was essential that such a law was opposed to accepting or reorganizing the system in a swift manner. The system is too important; reforms in countries that have also followed a similar direction, as we have in this case, have taken years, a series of years, decades. In the end, this system was transformed into a more or less happy form. No, we've let this system fall into such numbers that we get headaches when we see how many losses are created overnight, day after day, every minute, even maybe per second were calculated losses. The government, which ruled this country for 10 years, caused this agony to come so far that it finally realized that it was necessary to do something about it overnight. I think it's not the right way. At that time, even by the union, it was proposed that this reform should be carried out under some normal procedure, not by an emergency procedure. The matter was dismissed, following an emergency procedure. And this is the despair of the people expressed by this referendum desire. And now someone's got a vagueness and, I don't know what else he's up against. I think that this was a forced action by the interested parties who were bottling, maybe not the right way to solve this problem, but what you wanted, now you have here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you. Another explanation for the voice, France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that many have given an explanation of their vote so that many conclusions could be distorted from their presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u139	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u140	And the committee talks, let me say the following. [[...]] It is true that some Members have raised concerns on the Committee about the clarity of the text of the referendum question. They argued that there would be different interpretations, that only text was inappropriate, vague and similar. Well, then the legislative and legal service has clearly told us that the text is understandable, that it is clear that it is a bit complicated - namely, the clear text that does not allow different interpretations, that is something else. The Committee then adopted a decision to correct and formulate a clearer text together with the proposers. And this clearer text we've just adopted. I believe, however, that without appraising the importance of this and substantively defining it, respect for 62,000 signatures must also be expressed in this national council. With regard to the text itself, it seems to me that the expression is a beautiful, substantial concern for Slovenian railways and if you want me to use this somewhat feminine name of national interest, I see here the heart of national interest for Slovenian railways. That's why I'm going to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you. My friend Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u142	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. We have already met with the previous legislative referendum three years ago in the sussage room, and you can believe that there was a great deal of demagogies at the time, both in the vote of this decree and in the time available for real and healthy information. Here, too, I am asked whether in all these five or six indents, which were also discussed today, we will be able to explain to the voters in detail what all of this means, and what the interest of this is also from a national economic point of view or also in terms of national interest. Despite the fact that the Committee said that the issues were clear - and were also extremely complicated - the referendum issues were not clear and not understandable, nor did it think that I had participated in the Infrastructure Committee from the beginning, but also in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. That is why, of course, I will not abstain from voting, but I will vote against the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? My friend Pukšič and former colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you, Vice President. First, respectable colleagues and colleagues, we know what is in the rules of procedure, when a few minutes can be taken for consideration: when a national assembly decides to call for a referendum is such a moment. If you find a business option, I would ask, on behalf of the Group of Members, for a 15-minute break from decision-making - if you find this way, this thought would be welcome. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to do everything I can to vote in favour of the referendum today. We have found ourselves in a situation where we are even speaking publicly that we will not support the proposal for a referendum for some reasons that are very complicated. If we deliberately call for a referendum, with a referendum question that we know in advance is unclear, it is our irresponsible attitude towards the Institute of the Referendum. We had a few more ways. We could go to the Constitutional Court because we have arguments for that. A few days ago, I stepped into the crane on this issue and suggested that we try to raise the question more clearly. It only partially worked. So if we call a referendum today, which many will say is a question of referendum, we will make a political mistake and we will also show how we feel about the referendum and our electorate and electorate. If I have two matters to weigh, one is the right to a referendum, and the other is our inability to find the way through the procedure, that the referendum issue is clear, but I will first decide on the referendum. And that's how I'm gonna vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you. Vote explanation, colleague Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. 62,000 signatures of citizens and citizens are a number that must in fact be envisioned by those who have proposed the law and who, of course, do not have support among these people. 62,000 signatures are the number that people care about what will happen to Slovenian railways. Not only formal concern for this, but also real concern for the loss of their jobs. These citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have been "skinned" too many times. It was a law that talked about keeping jobs in Tam in Maribor. Today is a long time ago. Funds from the state budget have been spent. It's called damage to social property. With such a law as the government has proposed, they would re-create the same legal basis for damage to social property. This, of course, needs to be resisted. Even if a word or a sentence is incomprehensible to some, the lawyers will explain it. That is why we also have institutions and institutions such as the Constitutional Court and so on. However, the decision of the members of the National Assembly in accordance with the Constitution and the law is if the conditions for the national assembly to sign this referendum are met. The task of this National Assembly is simply what is procedural, that is to set deadlines. Those who vote against this call, vote against the Slovenian people, vote against the constitution and the law. I'll support the invitation to a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much. If anyone else wishes to explain their vote, please do so now, then we will take the required pause, in accordance with Rule 73(2) of the Rules of Procedure. After my return, I will give the floor only to the sending group that requested a recess. My friend Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I think that the people who entrusted us with the votes two years ago, they also deserve us to take a little account of them. There's only 90 of us here, and there's over 62,000 of them. So, the voice of the people, they would say in the Millionaire, has to be taken into account and comes in handy. Among the 62,000 people, I think there's more intelligence than among 90 people, even though we're here "in the trough," someone would say. If this bill does not go through, I will be ashamed to walk, even though I will support the voice of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u150	Mr. Vice President! I am one of those who tried to point out the complexity of the issue on the Infrastructure and Environment Committee yesterday. We have also tried to find a text that would be clearer, more understandable, less complicated. We also proposed simplification within the framework of that group that drafted the text that we had previously voted on. Of course, the applicants followed all the lines and the whole question, as has been signed by so many and so many electorates and electorates or citizens and citizens. They didn't give up on it. I think that was the right thing to do. The result was simply that we corrected the text slightly or simplified it to be slightly more legible. I agree with those who say that the simple voter is still not the most understandable and that it will be difficult to find the best quality answer at the referendum. However, even when I go to the referendum and address those we believe, I will vote against this issue. Today, however, we are obliged, in my opinion, to allow for a referendum, so my vote will be in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thanks, buddy Yuri. I'm sorry I didn't think of your last name before. I'm concluding the explanation for the vote. Before the vote, I shall assign the required 15-minute recess for consideration, which shall be until 6:13 p.m. I'm adjourning the session in 15 minutes. At 6:14, we'll proceed and move on to a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u152	Dear colleagues and colleagues, 15 minutes have passed, please take your seats to finish the debate. We'll move on to a decision. Comrade Podobnik, do you want a word after the required break? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u153	I suggest we stop making this decision and continue tomorrow. I have, doubt, at least personally and also Members and Members of the LDS Group on the basis of all the discussions and still some dilemmas regarding the clarity of the issue, and in particular the concern that citizens really know what they are deciding and decide that this decision could then turn into a law that the National Assembly will have to adopt. Since we do not want to make a decision in question, I suggest we decide tomorrow, and by tomorrow we study these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u154	On what basis would we do so under the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u155	On the basis of the same article on which you moved it from Tuesday to Thursday.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u156	Colleagues and colleagues, at this point, I would only do this if you would allow me to interrupt the meeting in ten minutes and invite the leaders of the parliamentary groups to meet with the president or in room 217 for ten minutes. At 6.27 p.m., we resume the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u157	I ask everyone to come from their offices because it will be necessary to decide on the proposal I will make with regard to this item on the agenda. It's 6:45. With your attention, I would like to continue the adjournment of the agenda and the meeting of the National Assembly. May I have your attention in the hall? In consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we discussed the issue of which the leave was taken and the consultation was convened. This is a decision on the constitutional category, on the referendum, it is a very important matter. We would all like to decide that the decision we make and the responsibility the national assembly has in this decision would not be a shadow of doubt. In this respect, we have agreed unanimously to refer to Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3, in order to break this item by tomorrow. At 9:30 tomorrow we will meet again and look at these arguments about the alleged uncertainty or the alleged unconstitutionality of the issue. If there is no longer any doubt among us tomorrow, we will, of course, continue to make decisions or continue to make decisions in any case, since the National Assembly must make a decision. Thus, by 10 a.m. tomorrow, I am putting the decision on this agenda to a vote. Please! There's 59 of us in the hall. 45 of us voted in favour and 7 against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] So we're gonna break this agenda by tomorrow. At 9:30 a.m., we will meet again with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Let's go to the next item on the agenda. We're at 20. Agenda items - First draft of the Act on Access to Information of Public Meaning. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on access to information of a public nature in first reading is appropriate for further consideration. Can we decide? Please, let's vote! Of the 57 colleagues and colleagues there are 47 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The law will be allocated to the mother's working body. At the end of the 21st. The agenda will continue with the first stage of the hearing, namely the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia or the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia, in the first phase, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting! 57 present. 50 for and no one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have reached a decision and that the decision has been given to the mother's working body. Let's continue with the 26th. Dot, with the defense of the seventh annual report of the Guardian of Human Rights. You have a review of the amendments to the draft report in your hands. This is the document you received on the bench. In the afternoon part of the debate, reference was made to Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure. We'd like to extend this debate by half an hour. Such a proposal would be put to the vote to extend the debate for half an hour to discuss the recommendations and amendments. I will put this proposal to the vote to extend the debate on the amendments to the proposal for recommendations for the seventh regular annual report by half an hour. Who is in favour of such a proposal, please let us vote. 57 present. 33 for and 18 for. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. I make recommendations and amendments to the debate. Who wants a word? Please, Comrade Jerovšek. You wanted a word? Please. Who else would want a word? Comrade Bernick, colleague of Sponik. Anyone else? Please, if you'll excuse me. Comrade Lavrinz. Can I order these speakers in five minutes? Please, five minutes for these four speakers. First, my friend Bernick. Please. Only amendments to the proposal for recommendations and recommendations. Comrade Dr. Bernick, first of all, five minutes to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u159	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u160	Mr. Guardian and colleagues and colleagues, I wanted to get back to you earlier, but I didn't get a word. Now I hope you won't take it away from me, because it's the next one. The Ombudsman, when responding to the various comments we had, replied to me, although I was talking about certain things that might not be pleasant to each ear, but he replied to me that he was talking to his colleague in Prague and that he said to him, thank God that you did not accept the lustrations, because this is what makes us very difficult. If this is left alone as was said by the guardian's lord, then in every way people will tell me that I advocated lustration. I didn't even get close to her. That's why it seems to me, either that it was a desire or a misunderstanding, so I want to fix it for a magnetogram, and I also want to say that the things I said, I said, I was pretty sure, but I wasn't talking about lustration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Let me first say that these recommendations, the amendments tabled by the Slovenian People's Party, will be supported. I myself will talk about an important topic relating to the constitutional and fundamental rights of citizens, as I mentioned earlier and have also tabled an amendment to this topic. Even in the year on which this report relates, something unheard of happened after the current knowledge. I am afraid to use the word because it would sound too hard, but the fundamental rights of people, the constitutional right to health care, have been violated because Article 51 states that everyone has the right to health care under the conditions laid down by the law. In this case, however, constitutional law, Article 14, was also violated in Cel. It is known that not all of them had the same rights, that some of their status or political preferences were given health care. I think that this is the farthest violation of human rights in Slovenia alone, and unfortunately the government that is most responsible is closing its eyes. I do not know if the Ombudsman has ever publicly pointed out this matter, but his intervention will also be necessary, even though I expected the Prime Minister to demand responsibility in this matter, including political responsibility, because he often refers to European standards. And European standards are perfectly clear. In fact, I would also like the Ombudsman to mention a few words earlier on the basis of my debate, if he has more information from us in this matter. We Members have already asked questions, clear to which it was possible by the Government, the Justice Minister, to answer clearly, but [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] He was avoiding the answer. [[...]] Of course, the public has to get the answers. Mr. Guardian, at first I did not understand what you had done in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Comrade Companion, did you want a word? My friend Lavrinc was right in front of you. Please, Comrade Lavrinz. I've already asked, and now I see you're raising your hands for the procedural colleague Lavrinz, you have the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u164	I'd like to ask you procedurally how my predecessor got his word because he didn't talk about the report. To be honest, I didn't understand him at all. I think in such a case a word should be taken. If I understand correctly, Mr President, you have given the floor to discuss the report and the amendments. But I haven't heard a word about these things before. Excuse me, I'll finish. But when I get my word as a debater, I'm going to talk about the amendments in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u165	The debate on the proposal recommended as well as the amendments. You want a word? Please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it is right to find out that the amendment, my colleague Jerovská, is actually being unfairly tabled. The subject of the amendment was the recommendations made by the mother labour force, the Internal Policy Committee, adopted and, of course, referred to the Ombudsman's report. The amendment proposed by Mr Jožef Jerovšek speaks of facts which the Ombudsman did not address in 2001 or have been problematic in the report. Thus, I think it is correct to conclude that the amendment actually speaks for the new Chapter 6 about a matter which is not the subject of a report by the Ombudsman, and even less of a recommendation from the parent working body and therefore the amendment is not properly tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u167	This is not the case, Comrade Jerovšek, if I may say, for what political decision. This is a real fact that the event referred to in the amendment was not made at the time of the report. Please, Comrade Jerovšek. I'll give you my word to clear it up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u168	It won't hold. As far as is known, this case occurred in eight or nine years, as well as in 2001, or this year, to which the report relates. It will simply not be possible to conceal that fact. But as far as it came, Mr. Keeper of course couldn't deal with it because it was hiding. [[...]] And we must not support illegal secrets in our legislation. You have lawyers here. Even now, according to our legislation, illegal secrets are a thing that must not be kept secret.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u169	Comrade Jerovšek, that we should not speak again about the content of the amendment, because you have already talked about this - to clarify this question, Mr. Ombudsman, can I ask you for a position on this? We have a "sui generis" situation because that is how it is possible to understand this amendment, which is being tabled by my colleague Jerovšek. What is your opinion, if I may ask, about the proposal she made? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u170	The problem is that we didn't get any complaints at the time or now, so of course she couldn't be in here. In general, we are talking about the right to health care, which has been repeatedly violated, about non-existent complaint routes. There could be an amendment in this regard, but it's difficult for us to use a specific event in Cel because we don't use it either. On the other hand, as far as I know now, the police, the ministry and everything else are in the cell hospital, so that at least at this stage, the guardians can't even do anything by law until things are cleared up there or until it can be seen that the institutions that should control, punish or do anything work. Right now, it shows it's the police and everything. So I personally don't see any special meaning, other than general, in confirmation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u171	Good. Comrade Jerovšek, can we find that, given the actual circumstances - we are not going into the content of the amendment, its relevance - this amendment is irrelevant to this report? Please, Comrade Jerovšek. I mean, that would make it easier for us to work, otherwise it's my job to find out if he's a businessman or not. [[...]] I agree with colleague Krebs this time that this is not really the subject of this report. Please, can you help us?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I agree, Mr President, that this would make our work easier. The new Rules of Procedure have made it easier for us to work and we are putting an end to Parliamentism in this house. We're doing a very bad job. We have to be aware of that. And that's why I don't agree with that logic. And if human rights are as severely assaulted as they were in 2000, or at the time of the creation of this report, I think it is irresponsible to put our heads in the sand. I have also heard a new explanation of the Ombudsman's rights, I do not think that people have the right to appeal until all proceedings have been completed. I think people turn to the guardian when the proceedings are not over. It's not a constitutional court, it's multi-stage. But I think that the Ombudsman must intervene when human rights are violated, fundamental human rights, no matter what stage there is. And I'm very surprised by this position of the Ombudsman. My concerns have come to me, and my parliamentary responsibility requires me not to put my head in the sand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u173	Yes, I will take into account this fact that the content of this amendment relates to a year which is not the subject of this report. And I propose that we do not vote on this amendment, and that I am nothing, neither I nor the National Assembly, say anything about the content and appropriateness of this amendment, as proposed by my colleague Jerovšek. Does anyone else have a word on the amendment review? We haven't voted yet. Comrade Lavrinc, now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would say that I am somewhat disappointed by the fact that Members and Members do not come to the committee where there is an opportunity and time to do so with proposals for better recommendations. They do not come with such debates as they are heard here. It's true there's no TV. However, for the serious and good work of the National Assembly, I think this should be the case. And if, for example, the previous case were exposed to a committee meeting where anyone, including one who is not a member of the committee, could have cleared up the matter there. The next thing I want to say about the amendments is this. Good. The first amendment proposed by the SLS Group will be supported. A second amendment, such as this, will not be supported or suggested to the authors to correct it. In fact, it is not only the competent state authorities or not at all. However, the courts are those who care in such a case for people who are on psychiatric treatment. And, of course, health care institutions, which means that these two have to be combined. The third thing I would like to say is the amendment to Chapter V. I will absolutely not support this, because I would like to spit on the government, which, if I read today's legal practice and where the secretary of state in the preamble highlights what the government has done to speed up denationalisation procedures, the conclusion that the denationalisation process is therefore accelerated that all measures are ready to come to the conclusion of the denationalisation plan even if we come from a one-year report to a half-year-old and we are now on a quarterly basis, that all of this is shared by the ministries, that it was additional to make the process move faster, after all, it is our duty to Europe that the administrative units that have dealt with them more quickly, so they have helped those who have resolved later. So that's what I mean or would suggest to the proposers that they simply withdraw these amendments. Because, like I said, I don't think it's justified. Well, others, of course, can be discussed and supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u175	I'll give you my word. Comrade Jerovšek, you too will get it, and first colleague Podobnik, because he has been waiting for some time. Please, Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you, President. First of all, thank my colleague Lavrinz for identifying himself for some amendments. First of all, it might be part of the explanation. I myself was an active member, an alternate member, on a committee led by my colleague Lavrinc at this point. And there I also found that one part of the government's response in the area of pension and disability insurance and medically failed. And then, of course, I couldn't propose an amendment under point 4, which speaks of a list of physical defects. And I proposed it today, and I think that, if I understand you correctly, the vast majority of the opinions that we have hit the point of the problem. In fact, the government notes that it has unfortunately failed to find ways to harmonise both sub-laws in the inter-sectoral coordination between the health and work sectors, such as lists of physical impairments and lists of occupational diseases. That's a first. Second, with regard to the amendment under point 2, if you look at it, this is related to care in the implementation and control of the safety measure of compulsory psychiatric treatment. We were very careful, even after the board meeting, to examine the guardian's material. The pace is severe in Parliament, I admit, 9 Members and professional services can do as much as they can. But we've been working, I'll tell you, since this morning. And we're exhausted from this work. And on page 20, it says: "The cases described show that greater care is needed in the implementation and supervision of the safety measure of compulsory psychiatric treatment, the obligation to change treatment is both on the court side and on the health and social welfare offices in which this measure is implemented." That is how I accept the proposal and the suggestion of my colleague Lavrinz, and I hope that, even if it is still possible for business, the amendment has been supplemented orally by the amendment under point 2, in order to write "the competent judicial authorities and other state authorities should give greater consideration". I believe that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u177	What amendment is that?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u178	This is the amendment under point 2, the amendment to Chapter II.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u179	Can you say the text again?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u180	Three words are added for the word "competent". "Judges and others" so that the amendment reads: "The competent judicial authorities and other state authorities should pay greater attention to the implementation and supervision of the safety measure of compulsory psychiatric treatment." I would also like to remind you that we have been very busy in the area of housing and we have proposed a new chapter. I must admit that it was only after the discussion on the working body that I then advised some colleagues and professional colleagues that we had very carefully examined this area and proposed an amendment, but then we cut it down and we wrote down only the solution: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should do everything necessary to implement the national housing programme and prepare different mechanisms, which either followed the actual needs of non-profit rental and social rental apartments." However, we have let go of the continuation which speaks of, in our view, an important area for the government to consider also the establishment of so-called real estate funds. But let's make this a topic for one of the other discussions. And just a thought of amendment under point 5.3, this is to chapter 5: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should strive for a faster and more effective solution to the denationalisation problem." The amendment is, of course, written on the basis of the material contained in the Ombudsman’s report. The amendment is not a criticism of the government, but an incentive to continue at the pace it began. That's how we understand him. I have previously been told by the Ombudsman after an informal discussion that he considers all the amendments, which in fact also follow his purposes when he was preparing the report, so that the amendment follows the Ombudsman's direction. The amendment in this case is not a criticism of the government. In the last two years, however, there has been an important step forward on the denationalisation issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you. Comrade Shirtz, did you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Did anyone else want to see a fellow Jerovsky? Comrade Jerovšek, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you very much. In fact, I think it would also be your duty, because I was actually improperly attacked by my colleague Lavrinz, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u183	He didn't mention your name. I am listening very intensively to the debate. If I did, I'd warn him. And I'd like to give you a word about the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u184	I admit I recognized myself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u185	Please, Comrade Jerovšek has a word and no one else.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u186	That is, but above all there is a subset of observations that he may come to the committee for internal policy. [[...]] I could, I know that by the rules of procedure, but where I'm a member, I'm about as active everywhere, and I never really sleep on any organ. No, I'm not. And about the same thing, I'm active on the commissions, on the committees, if there's a transfer or no transfer, he's also impeding that today is a transfer. I don't know, but I hope not. And these. I will not allow myself to be attacked here with such impertinent remarks, because this is an attempt to discredit Members of Parliament's integrity. At the same time, I must reject your refusal that the content of my amendment does not refer to the period for which the present report is due. If it's your knowledge, it's not mine, but I've been following things a lot. It refers to a period, but it would be better if it did not apply, that in case it would not be Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u187	Please, Comrade Lavrinc, but I suggest that we not continue to discuss who is following more or less. Each has his own rights, his own duties, his own conscience, and he has no duty to listen to the eyes of others. Please, Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u188	Yes, I find it very difficult, in fact, that my colleague Jerovšek recognized himself in that one. After all, the Social Democratic Party has a Vice-President of the Internal Policy Committee, so I really didn't want to be offensive or anything like that and, of course, if he took it badly, I apologize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u189	I'd like to close the debate. Here we now remain with the problem of the fifth amendment to the new chapter; so once again, my colleague Jerovšek, that there will be no misunderstanding between us, and also, my opinion, the decision - this moment I am chairing, I am responsible for the enforcement of the Rules of Procedure - is not political but of a substantive nature. I just think that the text, as it is ready to make a decision, is without prejudice to the subject of the report that we are now talking about and that is my explanation of why I will not put it to the vote. Please, that's the way it's to be accepted. We'll do it in a row. We have a review of the amendments to the proposal for a recommendation. We'll go to the first amendment to chapter one. The Slovenian People's Party's Group proposes this amendment. We're voting on him. May I have your attention in the hall, please? The amendment was accepted. 52 present, 46 for and none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] We're at the second amendment to chapter two. Here colleague Sponik proposed an oral amendment. I have consulted on what this means in terms of the rules of procedure and we are in the middle of a legislative procedure, typical, we have an act. Colleague Sponik proposes and I will first ask the question whether anyone objects to the text being read: competent judicial and other - competent judicial and other - state authorities. Here, Comrade Squirrel, did I just write it down? Have them pay more attention, that would be the text of the amendment. Is it clear to the National Assembly what we decide? Yeah. We will therefore decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, as supplemented by the oral amendment of Comrade Podobnik. We're voting. 51 present, 48 for, one up. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also have the following chapter, in chapter five, the third amendment of the same parliamentary group. We're voting on the amendment. We are voting on the amendment to chapter five of the SLS Group. 50 present, 20 for, 24 versus. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. The same parliamentary group proposes a fourth amendment for a new Chapter 6. We're voting. 52 present, 44 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has received support. We are voting on the sixth amendment for the new chapter seven, the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. 51 in attendance, 44 in, one in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that we have also accepted this amendment. We are now moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation to the 7th Annual Report of the Ombudsman in full. We're voting. 53 present, 48 for and none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed recommendation is fully accepted. Mr Ombudsman, on behalf of the National Assembly, I thank you for the cooperation between the two institutions, and I recommend such successful cooperation in the coming year. We're at 27. Agenda items - Proposal for the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia budget for the year 2000. We are moving on to a decision on the draft decision, which reads: "The Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, when considering the proposal for a final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2000, the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2000 shall be adopted." We're voting! 52 present. 45 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We have two more proposals for conclusions, as the President has said before. We can't decide about them. We have concluded this agenda item. We're at 28. Agenda items - Defence Proposal for a Resolution on Migration Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Please take the amendment review into our hands. It's a document you got on the 27th of this month, four pages. We'll go from amendment to amendment. We're at paragraph one. The Internal Policy Committee proposes that the first paragraph of this resolution be deleted. The amendment is substantively linked to the first part of the amendment to Chapter 1. Can we make a decision? We can move on to decision-making. Do you have the material in front of you? Okay. We decide on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. Amendment 1 to the first paragraph. We're voting! 52 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment of the committee has been adopted. The same Committee also proposes an amendment to Chapter 1 of the Introduction. We decide on this amendment, which is substantively linked to the amendment to the first paragraph. We're voting! It's accepted: 49 present, 41 for, no objection. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have the long amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to Chapter 2, the review of interstate migration and the assessment of the state of migration policy in Slovenia. Can we make a decision? Please. We decide on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to Chapter 2. We're voting! 53 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. Chapter 3 Principles on migration policy. The amendment committee is also tabled. We decide on him. 48 present, 41 for and none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have two more amendments. Amendment of the same committee to Chapter 6 first. We're making a decision! We're in the middle of a vote. 51 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] We accepted that amendment. Finally, the Internal Policy Committee also proposes an amendment to Chapter VIII. Measures to implement migration policy. It's up to us to decide. Please, we're voting. 49 present, 43 for, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted this amendment. And that we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution on the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. Can we make a decision? Please! We decide on the motion for a resolution on the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. Resolution adopted, 47 out of 52 for, no one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] We're in emergency procedures today. Please note - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Peace and Disability Insurance Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Does the Secretary of State want a word? Okay. Please, you have the floor. Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I'll be very short. The amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act before you affect two areas. The proposed amendment of Articles 150 and 150a allows for further coordination in March. The fact is that the law in force provides for the coordination of pensions in February and September. If the conditions are not met in September, the conditions shall then be checked in October and in November and in December. However, the proposed amendment provides for the possibility of harmonisation in March if there is no harmonisation in February or if this February harmonisation would be less than 1.5 per cent. This ensures the principle of a more even or more coherent pension growth in terms of wages. In particular, we must stress that pension growth with salaries is being checked for a period of time, i.e. not a month per month. On the basis of the data so far for this year, figures from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia have increased pensions by 7.9 per cent in relation to last year's period, wages in the same period by 7.2 per cent, which means that the conditions for harmonisation have not yet been met. However, the second amendment to the law interferes with transitional provisions by suspending the entry into force for a year of that article of the current law, which provides for the introduction of a differentiated contribution rate for disability insurance, namely in the work relating to injuries at work and occupational diseases. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you support the proposed amendments and adopt the law as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The proposal was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a parent labour force. I ask the President to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee considered the draft law at its 25th regular meeting on 6.11.2002. There was no concrete debate and no concrete proposals for amendments. In view of the fact that the legislative and legal service has slightly more specifically pointed out the need to clarify the text of Article 2, we have adopted an amendment to Article 2 on the Committee, as stated in the review. The Committee has, of course, also decided and voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the articles to the full extent possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you for the report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, I give the floor to the delegation of DeSUS, Ivan Kebrich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I believe that there is no need to further explain the proposal before us, since the introduction sets out what the assessment of the situation is. It follows that it is imperative that we amend the law in these matters or in these articles. There is also a very comprehensive explanation, and I would stress only the following. It's not just about pensions, it's about all the benefits that are coordinated when pensions are coordinated. I conclude with this only: I appeal to you, Members and Members to accept this proposal and to allow for the coordination of pensions with salaries to be more current, although we welcome, on the one hand, that the dynamics of the growth movement and the rest of it have calmed to some extent, which has a positive impact on the level of inflation which we hope will be just as envisaged in government programmes and budgetary memoranda - that this proposal will be voted on and made possible in March if it is not yet in February that time that they will agree that not only the pension will happen, but all the other refunds will not be aligned with the salaries for 18 months. Thank you for your attention, and I recommend that we vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you for the position of the Dessus Group. The victory of Jelinčič is not present to give a position. Stanislav Brenčič, Slovenian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Well, in our parliamentary group we support the purpose of this law. In fact, the measure introduced by this law also creates a realistic possibility for pensions to be harmonised at least twice a year and that the harmonisation of pensions with average wage growth is slightly more balanced and moderate. That is why we certainly support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thanks for the attitude. Following is the position of New Slovenia. Maria Ana Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. By doing so, we correct at least a little of the injustice that we have done to our pensioners by means of our previous or previous law. I hope they gain something with it, though not all that was taken from them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you. And Peter Levich on behalf of the Young People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respectable National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! For the proposal of the law, almost all of us supported the urgent procedure. It is right to say why we did this in the Young Slovenia Party. Not because we want the proposal to be adopted as soon as possible, but because it goes on the agenda as soon as possible. The current law on pension and disability insurance was adopted on 10 December 1999 and entered into force on 1 January 2000. It ended the reform of the pension and disability insurance system, which began in 1996, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepared and adopted the starting points for the reform of the pension and disability insurance system and which continued in 1997 with the White Paper on the reform of pension and disability insurance, which explained the reasons and objectives of the changes and indicated the most important solutions. On the basis of both documents and a large-scale debate held in mid-1998, a proposal for a pension and disability insurance law for the first hearing was so-called. At the end of the three-year debate or some final solutions, the agreement on the essential solutions signed by all the social partners after long and difficult negotiations also contributed greatly. Apparently, it was an unfinished marriage. The text of the law was subsequently revised three times, last one year ago. At that time, we heard that now the reform of the pension system has been completed. The above is largely summed up after the introduction of the law on changes from one year ago. This introduction was then summarised after the introduction to the analysis of the implementation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of 7 April 2001, but the following sentence was omitted. "Some of the basic solutions offered in the White Paper, as well as the text of the bill itself, have changed considerably at the time of consideration. In doing so, the applicant deviated from the original route, which would mean more fundamental changes in the system, in particular the introduction of a three-pillar system with a mandatory second pillar, capital financing." The bill on the table today also does not refer to fundamental solutions, but to the harmonisation of pensions, which is obviously a topic that is used in the right or the right time, but only for some. At least what I can say about it, or the nicest thing to say, is that it's unhygienic. If this is to be discussed before the elections and changes of the government, only a serious and fundamental issue can be discussed, namely whether the pension pillar will hold back in the future, how to reduce the transfer of resources from the state budget to the pension fund, the reduction of the number of active population and so on. None of this is the content of this bill. It's about cosmetic changes, and it's about weird weather in the middle of an election. For all of this, we will vote against the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you for that attitude. These were the views of the members of the groups. I am moving on to a second reading of the draft law on amendments and articles. Since there are no amendments to the bill, we will not discuss this. I'm finishing second reading and moving on to third reading. Since the articles are closed, it is not possible to table an amendment in the third reading, so we will move on to a full debate on the law. Who among the parliamentary groups would like to present their position on the bill as a whole? Because no, I also conclude this debate. So the law is harmonised. Since no amendments have been adopted, under Article 140, paragraph 5, the legal service could give an opinion on consistency, because there are no amendments, so this is not the case, so we will go to the vote, to the decision on the law in its entirety. May I have your attention, please? We'll decide the whole marriage. We're voting. There are 47 of us in attendance, 30 to 9. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed with this. I hereby conclude the 22nd item of the agenda and move on to 23. On the day-to-day basis, this is for the consideration of the proposal for a regulation on amendments to the Act on the Jamming of the Republic of Slovenia on the obligations of the domestic air carrier to cover the damage caused by the war on terrorism and on the conditions of the guarantee for foreign air carriers - urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the proposal. Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. If you'll excuse me, I'll tell you from this place. So this is the law that was cited, which is being extended, which was adopted last year after the events of September 11th. It is the case that it is now in force or is already extended twice by 31.12. This year. In view of the changes in the insurance market, both in Europe and home, of course, this law had to be amended. We have prepared this law in such a way that we have essentially divided it into two parts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u203	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u204	In the first half of the following year, where the State renews this guarantee, this guarantee is payable to the carrier for payment to the State budget of a fixed amount, 0.25 dollars per passenger, whereas for the next half of the year, until 31.12.2003, compulsory insurance is payable to the insurance undertaking at the appropriate home insurance company. [[...]] This proposal also sets out the reasons or the fact that it is possible, in the case of specific events, for the insurance undertaking to cancel the insurance, and in this case, for the State to arise, provided and requiring the carrier to pay an appropriate or equal share of the premium as would be paid to the insurance undertaking: or if it is not possible to insure at any given time, or if it is possible to insure only for a specified amount. In addition, the law also considers the possibility of renting or insurance of an aircraft, which the domestic carrier also takes for hire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. Jakob President. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the representative or Vice-President of the Committee, Janko Vebra, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. At its 9th urgent meeting, on 26.11 and 27.11., the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment considered the proposal for a law and found that the proposed substantive solutions to the legislative proposal covered the extension of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia until 30.6.2003 under the new conditions presented by the Minister just recently. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which noted or found that the solutions proposed were being better placed in the text of the existing law and also to be somewhat substantively cleaned. The Committee has therefore drafted its amendments in its consideration of the individual articles and, with these amendments, has resolved these shortcomings by adopting them in such a form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you very much for the report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I'd give my word if I were there, Victory Jelinčič, but he's gone. That's why I'm giving it to the next man, John Christmas, who's giving it up. Thank you very much. There were no other announced parliamentary groups at this point. This concludes the debate in the first reading. We are moving on to a second reading to address amendments or articles and amendments to this article. Since there is no proposal for amendments - which was already there - the committee has already taken over and the proposed proposal for a new law is proposed - so that we can conclude a second hearing. We're moving to third reading. Since the articles are closed, there are no amendments here either. That way we can go to the full decision of the law. Anyone else want a word before making a decision? Because no, I'm closing up and we're moving on to a decision. May I have your attention, please? We're voting on the whole law! There are 48 of us present. 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I'm closing the 23rd item of the agenda. I'm moving on to the next one, 25. POINT OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON INVESTMENT FUNDS AND MANAGEMENT SOCIETY, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representative of the government, the secretary of state, mag. Sibyl Svilan and I give him my word for the introductory explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly in June a proposal for a law on investment funds and management companies, short-termly referred to as ZISDU 1. The National Assembly is expected to consider it following a rapid procedure under European laws at an extraordinary meeting in June due to Slovenia's commitments under the European Agreement. The consideration of the ZISDU proposal at the working bodies of the National Assembly was postponed from June to September. At the 27th meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly of September, a decision to postpone the consideration of the proposal of the ZISDU to one of the following meetings of the Committee was voted on as a result of a multitude of comments from the professional public and a short time limit. On the basis of comments received and proposals received, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the Ministry of Finance, prepared a new text of the ZISDU replacing the current text and submitted it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 22 October. At its October session, the National Assembly decided to postpone this consideration of the law to November. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u209	I ask all the debaters who individually discuss to calm down and listen to the government's presentation!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u210	At its 31st session on 20.11, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal of this Act and adopted individual amendments after a broader examination on the basis of the explanations of amendments by the groups of Members and the Committee itself. [[...]] The amended text of the draft law was adopted and proposed to be considered following a rapid procedure at the State Assembly at the November meeting. The main content of the new proposal is that the operation of investment funds and management companies is systematically and comprehensively regulated. Most of the content solutions are very similar or almost identical to those already dealt with by the National Assembly in the first reading of the old proposal of the law in June 2001. Therefore, even due to the time limit and the late evening hours, I would limit myself to the essential changes that are important in this new law. A major change in this new bill is a complete adjustment to the arrangements in the European Union and the regulation of this area alone, unlike the previous law, which also regulated the transformation of so-called special investment companies. This proposal for a law governs the licensing regime for the management of services and the management of investment funds in Slovenia and outside the Republic of Slovenia. The management of these services by foreign management companies and management companies of the members of the European Community in the field of the Republic of Slovenia is further regulated. This establishes a basis for the free movement of capital and the free provision of investment fund management services in accordance with the Directives of the European Union, removing the restrictions imposed by the current legislation on investment fund investments in foreign securities and on the management of investment funds by management companies not established in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law regulates mutual funds as open investment funds, whose operations are fully or are to be in full compliance with the provisions of these European Directives after the adoption of the law. This means that, due to the greatest possible liquidity and the spread of risks, mutual funds could have only 10 per cent of their assets in non-marketable securities, and only up to 10 per cent of their assets in the short term. The important news is that a mandatory custody function has been introduced. The possibility of including mutual fund investment coupons in trading in an organised securities market has also been introduced, which has not been the case so far and the investment coupons have been non-transferable. It is also important to note that amendments to the rules on the management of individual mutual funds are subject to a securities market agency which is required to grant a permit in the event of such a change, which is additional protection for investors investing in such a fund. Investment firms are, unlike mutual funds, legally regulated as closed investment funds. This means that they do not have the obligation to buy their shares at the request of the holders, so their investment policy can also be more flexible. According to the proposal of the new ZIZDU, an investment firm can thus hold up to 20 per cent of its investments in non-marketable securities and may also be indebted for up to 5 years in the long term and is more flexible until it is established - an investment firm is exposed to an individual. [[?]] Directives, of course, mainly regulate mutual funds, but Directives are the basis for regulating this area. It is possible for each country to adapt its legislation to the SPECICAMs of its own field in the field of investment funds. This is how we, as the government in this part, have tried to follow the provisions of the directives and have introduced similar instruments in the field of investment firms, particularly in the field of custody. That is why we also introduce mandatory custody for investment companies. In this way, we would achieve greater transparency and, of course, greater security for shareholders of investment companies, which, of course, came from the pidupov privatisation. In the case of investment companies, the new law also limits the management commission. This is limited to 1.5 per cent of the average annual net worth of the assets of the investment firm and also depends on the performance, which allows for an additional commission. It is important to stress that investment companies are of a transitional nature under this law. This is one of the basic guidelines of the law. An investment company may be transformed into a mutual fund or must be converted into a mutual fund within two years of the verification period, a period of four years. In doing so, we wanted existing investment companies that came out of the pids or from the pid organisations, but they had similar active parties, such as mutual funds, in particular from the point of view of investment, to target mutual funds and thus enable them to be transformed into financial institutions similar to those in the European Union. With regard to the different opinions and the possibility that this could lead to a significant exit of individual investors, we have also proposed individual exit fees for such a case, which secure such exit fees. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]] In the field of investment policy, the whole law is in fact in line with the directives of the European Union and also the latest, which entered into force only this year. In addition, the law also introduces new forms of investment funds, such as fund funds, investment funds, money market funds and dedicated investment funds, which has not been the case until now. However, the changes introduced by the new proposal of the ZISDU to management companies relate mainly to three areas. First, the minimum amount of the capital of the management company is now a minimum of 50 million dollars and is linked to the assets managed by the company. For each additional fund, it needs another 25 million tolars. The two-member board, which jointly decides, is also a new regulation of this law. In addition, risk management is specifically defined, which is an important element or the most important element of business in this area. Some of the activities of management companies are transferred to the custodian under the new proposal. It is a matter of keeping, keeping cash accounts and securities, ensuring that the investment fund’s obligations are met, in particular the issue of the net value and value of the mutual fund’s assets or the investment fund. This will, according to our assessment, contribute to greater security in the operations of investment funds and to the protection of investors and, of course, to the further, better development of the capital market. The custodian under this law, as a new arrangement, may be a bank or other financial institution whose operations are governed by the securities market law and whose main activities may be securities-related services and the principal rights set out in those documents, provided, of course, that he fulfils the conditions, technical, human resources and others, and is subject to the supervision of the Securities Market Agency. The custodian and the companies are thus diversified and each individual and independent - both work for the benefit of holders of investment vouchers or shares and thus provide greater security and control. The law also regulates the supervision and management of management companies and control measures. In addition, of course, cooperation with the supervision of other European Union bodies with regard to the free movement of capital, as we have said in the introductions. In addition, the law also regulates the supervision of mutual pension funds as a specificity. It is also important that the law introduces out-of-court dispute resolution. We believe that this contributes to the continued protection of shareholders or investors, in accordance with the directives of the European Union which provide for such a way of resolving disputes. In other laws, the government will try to introduce similar solutions so that the entire financial market will be uniformly regulated. As I said in the introduction, it is important that this law does not govern the transformation of pids. This is not regulated by the complexity of this activity and also by other short deadlines laid down for the urgent procedure of this law. The law refers to a special law on the transformation of pids, until then the old ZISDU and the law on the pension fund and the conversion of pids are applied. The conversion deadline is 2003 at the end of 2003. The government has already drawn up a proposal for this special law and is in coalition coordination. The basic solutions are in the direction of greater transparency or control over the transformation of pids, in particular in the direction that it would be possible to follow this transformation, which has so far not been possible. The transformation of special investment companies will be possible, as already mentioned, into mutual funds or investment firms and to regular shareholders. These shareholders as regular shareholders will, of course, be public companies and will be classified in an organised securities market and subject to all information transparency requirements. Control is also being introduced, which is expected to take ten years. But we will present these solutions to the National Assembly on the proposal of this law. All of the solutions contained in today's proposal for the ZISDU and some other solutions to that proposal aim to achieve such changes in this area of our financial system, which would lead to greater transparency and security and thus faster development of the capital market towards the regulation of appropriate or comparable financial systems in the European Union. These solutions are also the basis for the faster integration of these financial entities and the capital market itself into the capital market in Slovenia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you, Secretary of State, for the introductory explanation. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, as you have applied. First Ivan Kebrich, DeSUS. [[The contract from the bench.]] I'm sorry. Thanks for the heads-up. Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! In view of the fact that the Secretary of State has said almost everything about what the Committee has done with regard to this law, and given that you have already received a 144-page report two days ago and have had enough time to review it, I will not take the time to suggest that you accept the text as it is in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. That's rare. That is why we are now going to the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ivan Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u214	Thanks for the vote. I'll be right out of the bench. I join the opinion of the Chairman of the Committee. It's a very difficult matter, so many articles. However, we believe in the parliamentary group that it is right for this matter to be regulated by law. Whether it's the best or not, practice will show. Above all, it is important to regulate the matter in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you. Once again, it would be the victory of Jelinčič, which is not there, so I give the floor to Ivan Bozič, instead of him my colleague Janez Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u216	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. The evening hours and the tiredness of Members and Members may also be a good opportunity to pass a very, very complex law and a very important law. I must admit that, in my 11-year parliamentary age, this is one of those laws in which I put the most energy into, and this is a law that would deserve a great deal of attention from fellow Members of Parliament and colleagues. By the way, I also studied these 144 pages of text very carefully over time, but I think this is already the fourth version of the law. We have been working intensively on this law for at least half a year, together with our fellow Members, and in particular the expert group we formed in the parliamentary group. Above all, I would ask you to try to follow some questions very carefully after we decide. However, I would like to say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the bill. We call it ZISDU-1 one, because the Secretary of State - by the way, along with his team - has done a lot of work, although in some professional and other positions we are not fully harmonised, but of course work is also in line with the Minister - has already been announced by ZISDU-2. Therefore, the ZISDU-1, which is ahead of us, regulates the business of investment funds, in line with the European Union guidelines. And the basic reason that we went into this marriage is that, all the rest of what we stuck to it, is to save the Slovenian story, which has been for ten years. When the Slovenian State decided, within the framework of the Assembly at that time, on the concept of ownership, it said that it would go to a model where citizens and citizens had the opportunity to submit a certificate or to a company where they were - some were lucky and others were not - or to invest it in successful companies. As a rule, they were very lucky, or a million two hundred thousand, to place their certificates in so - called peds, authorized investment companies. In these days we have also obtained, in cooperation with people who know this area, the very detailed operation of all Slovenian pids from the first day forward to today and, if anyone is interested, we have data on each stock, value and procedures of all transformations Right for every pid, for every transformation in recent years. From the beginning. The law also correctly regulates and establishes the basis for the free movement of capital and the free provision of services, the management of investment funds and removes the restrictions that have been lifted so far by existing legislation in this area. This is a very important news. I'm moving to mutual funds. This law is very important for mutual funds. Among the major changes is the release of the possibility of investing in the unit and shares of other investment funds and investment in derivatives. This law will allow Slovenia to also have index investment funds. It has enabled it to have funds that must have at least 90 per cent of investment in investment vouchers. And with respect to mutual funds, the next thought. This is an important development issue of the financial market in Slovenia. The mutual fund industry is less developed in Slovenia than in comparable countries. They were made in the world 170 years ago. In developed economies, however, they have gained an important place in the past decades. In Slovenia it is the first mutual fund, called Galileo, created 10 years ago, two years before pidov privatisation. Unfortunately, mutual funds still do not mean important work in saving the population. But it is true that their situation in Slovenia is improving. So far, there have been no developmental incentives. The tax treatment was equivalent to direct investment in shares. We look forward to a change in the Income Act in this area. I would like to touch Article 236 which states that pids must be converted into mutual funds. In our view, this is a constitutionally controversial decision, as the mandatory transformation of already established investment firms into mutual funds as an obligation is constitutionally controversial in our view. The principle of equality requires that persons who are equal should be treated equally and that they should be treated differently in proportion to their inequality. We have worked hard on this solution, and we have also proposed an amendment solution, which I will explain when we reach this article in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you. Presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members, Social Democrats of Slovenia, Andrej Vizjak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honorable representatives of the government. This new version of ZIZDU is really, I would say, one in a series of search for such and different solutions. And, of course, when I listened to the opening statement that this should somehow ensure greater transparency and security, the idea that this is the opposite is precisely the case, because of the procedure itself. The proposals followed, retreated, and now we have received, as the president of the labour force said, a report, a comprehensive report a few days earlier. And in fact it is complex, the process of accepting this ZIZD and now, of course, also breaking this content into two parts - this is said to be no longer regulated by the transformation of pids into investment companies - is only a consequence of the fact that many lobbying, opinions, influences and, of course, ultimately remained open or irregular, which is in fact the most important. The most important fact is that we are only systematically developing the market for Slovenian capital, not allowing any regulation to continue here under the legislation of 8 years ago, under the old investment company law and, of course, the law on the first pension fund and the transformation of authorised investment companies, which, last but not least, allows for the transformation of pids into ordinary equity companies and thus prevents some transparent business and supervision of these shares by the securities market agency. In short, the key question is the question of reshaping investment companies, which is directly linked to the question of the development of the capital market in Slovenia, of course remains unanswered, disorderly and repeats a story that has proved to be bad in the past and which only speaks against the many small shareholders that still exist in Slovenia. Because through ordinary companies and investment companies, the shares of these 720 thousand shareholders will move as quickly as possible at discount value into the hands of a minority, most of which are owners of today's management companies and authorised investment companies. In short, the protection of these small shareholders is in fact questioned. And instead of building in our Slovenia in the open, in the only proper transformation, it is in mutual funds, of course we continue to make a fog, some inadequacy and leave this regulation to the future. I would also like a clear response by a government representative to when this law can be expected in this House. And why this law still allows it as an option, equivalent option, to transform authorised investment companies into ordinary equity companies, otherwise with some 10-year control, why there is no government policy such as to somehow force, force transformation into mutual funds, which, of course, have the best and most positive impact on some transparency, security and development of the capital market in Slovenia. Of course, we are asked how and to act in support of this partial resolution of this important problem, because we are solving only - it seems to me - an important but less problematic part of this content, but we are not solving what Slovenians, of course, expected most from a certified story and an epilogue of this story. This is that they will actually become shareholders of the Slovenian economy and that their papers will have some serious possibility and, of course, a quotation on the markets. I think that there is some compromise here, if we give this problematic part, an interesting part that is tanning some of the major capital markets in Slovenia, let us put it down a little bit and let us solve what is being resolved. I think and I just want to point out that the need for some capital development in Slovenia is a priority need, not only for these small shareholders, but also for the Slovenian economy, and that we would only expect this other law announced by another law as soon as possible, and I am just wondering when we will see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thanks, mag. A visor. It would also be Joseph Bernik, New Slovenia, and I do not see him in the hall. I therefore conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, i.e. a debate on individual articles and amendments to the amended bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 28.11.2002. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club, the United Nations Group of Members, the SLS Group of Members and the DeSUS Group of Members to Article 3. Who wants a word? Comrade Companion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Article 3 is very extensive. He's talking about using concepts and shortcuts. The amendment proposed will be supported. But of course, he also talks about protecting small shareholders. I would like respectable colleagues who speak irrefutablely about the injury of small shareholders in the context of the so-called Piduvian investment companies, that you are concrete. Where's the damage? I think that's too much to say. In front of me, I have an analysis of what came out of the 400,000 SIT worth of the ownership certificate entered into the purchase of the shares of the pids, all of the Slovenian DZUs are. On yesterday, the average value of the certificate is 361.665 tolars. Of course, things are relative. As we have said, we have also obtained some other data, and the following is evident from this data. Those shareholders, those Slovenian citizens and citizens who invested 400,000 in Silk Maribor ten or eight years ago, today have only 8% value, those who invested in House Smreko 70, in Gradis GP Ljubljana only 20%, Inles Ribnica 28%, in MK Printerna Ljubljana 15%. Of course, things are different. Those who invested in Lek have 1.533%, those who invested in Work Sales have 580 and those who invested in Work d.d. have 2.062%. So it's said, out of 400,000 on the stock market today, 8 million. Of course, the values of those listed companies are also an integral part of the Slovenian stock exchange index. Among them are some who are worse than those who have invested in the hedge funds. For example, Tehnoonion d.d. Ljubljana, 8 years ago 400,000 and today only 320,000; the Geodetic Institute of Slovenia today exactly 200%. Well, there are big differences. And as we're told, we have data for all the management companies, for all the pids, and for all the transformed pds, for every piece of data, and the range is huge. My firm belief is that Slovenia's small shareholder is the most protected when it knows how valuable its shares are; when a statement from a shareholder-deputy company does not throw a pile at the top of the closet, between Work and Dnevnik, and forget where it is, but see how valuable its shares are. And since no one encourages him to do that, he doesn't even know that we're all owners and that we're in the last week - 90,000 Slovenians got more than 10%, their shares in peds only got 10% in the last week, only in the last week. So I do not agree with the thesis, which is somehow criminal to all those who have worked hard in management companies over the past years. The issue of ownership concentration - if it is based on stock exchange procedures, we must not disclose anything illegal to them. If they became richer on the basis of commissions that they could charge for their work, they were based on applicable laws. So it is true that on the basis of the second amendment of the legislation which had "by pass", because not everyone wanted the pids in Slovenia to become an important pillar of the financial market, they said: we offer people the opportunity to receive pensions for this money, but only 5% decided and the others did not. But then, in 1998, there was another coalition, and then there was an interesting idea that enabled the formation of current companies or financial holding companies, and they said that they could also be transformed into classical stock companies, which are subject to the Company Act. They are subject to the Company Act. If anyone's found out about the irregularities, let's start the procedures and find out. In no way should it criminalise and disprove the management and management of companies. We have a securities market agency that has to send a report to the National Assembly every year by law. Cite to me the provisions of the last five days on which side the Agency has stated in these provisions that small shareholders have been harmed. Please quote me away from this report. It's not! It's not like that. Therefore, there will be no misunderstanding when a new concept of ownership is introduced, which, as a rule, if the company is stable, endures to hell and there is no change, then irregularities can also occur. But because of irregularities, we must not question an instrument called an authorised investment company. That's why I'm fighting. That's why I'm fighting. I am also fighting for the National Assembly to encourage people to be active shareholders. You're an active shareholder when you're taught about it. You are taught when you learn in high school, when you talk about it in families, when instead of buying a car or maybe some other wealth, you make a conscious decision and invest something in shares, in securities: or in those who are quoted on the stock exchange and behind them are successful Slovenian companies, or through mutual funds. And then mutual funds reinvest in these companies. There's another misunderstanding I'd like to point out. We've had all the dynamics about selling Lek to Novartis. Perhaps we did not know enough that at least part of the positive rainstorm from this purchase is also received by those who have submitted a certificate to the pandas. I filed it myself eight years ago. And a large part of the most powerful Slovenian pids have a certain percentage of their money - he had - also in Lek. And we've all won, not nineteen thousand, but some other natural persons. That's not enough talk. So, I will conclude with the support of this amendment proposed by LDS Members' Groups, the United List, SLS and DeSUS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you, Comrade Podobnik. Ivan Kebrich. [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] There's no replica to that. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment, which largely saves small shareholders, as solved by the basic third article of the proposed law. The fact is, and remains, that this is a confrontation of interests of capital and small shareholders who do not have enough assets to acquire so many shares that these shares, something in the form of dividends that will be payable to them, or when these shares are sold easily, will grow and will be a small shareholder for such or other reasons forced to sell them to get cash-based cash assets. It is essential that: whether they - what the predecessor is, Mr Janez Podobnik said - they found themselves because they had capital and were able to buy. Simple citizens who barely date from day to day did not, of course, have these options, unless, like a certain person, speculators, they were given credit, they were well placed to purchase shares that had grown and, of course, they could return credit. I believe that, without regard to the facts as they are, there is still a certain difference in the interest of small shareholders to the interests of those who have more shares, which thus have more capital to become - not millionaires, a millionaire is in the jargon of a simple people or a man who has a million dollars, either in the savings or wages or whatever. It is that not all had equal opportunities, especially because they were not sufficiently informed and were not informed about these options, because many would rather invest in shares of this or that if they knew. I would probably, but I'm sure he'd have decided whether to come up with certain funds to buy shares of that kind, or even when it was the sale of certificates and everything else. We are confronting and facing today the situation as it is. We can't fix anything back there. We can just keep looking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you. Now I give the word "magic." Visionary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u224	Dear President! I had a replica, because according to our rules of procedure, we know exactly what a replica is. And I know that my colleague, Janez Sponik, is essentially because he's been looking at me all the time in his debate, he's been reading my statements about the damage to small shareholders. I want this statement because obviously I was misunderstood, at least from his discussion I look at you in some way to explain. Here's the thing. The story of certificates - I am not talking about that some have submitted and purchased for their certificates such and other papers or have invested in such and different pids. It was then, and it was marketing, just as any bad or good car can buy today. But his choice is - according to the market, what he has. And someone just made up their mind, someone else did. Someone got 8% out of this today, and someone got that much and that much 100% profit. I am talking about that it would be time, however, for these pids to be transformed into healthy financial funds or mutual investment funds and not to be able to apply the provisions of the old legislation to ordinary stock companies and thus to companies that are not subject to the supervision of their business or the supervision of the securities market agency. This is what I'm talking about, and here I see the damage and the possibility of harming small shareholders. That's what I've been discussing, and that's what I wanted. [[...]] I'm surprised to hear that this is about, in fact, encouraging people to be small shareholders. How will we encourage people to be small shareholders, if we have, I would say, also a vague policy towards the development of the capital market in Slovenia, which is mainly based on the transformation of pids. We left that story blank. That's what I've been thinking about in my debate, and this is where I see the damage done by small shareholders.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thanks, mag. A visor. Why didn't I think it was a replica? You have previously presented the position of the parliamentary group, to which the nominee colleague Podobnik is not at all present, but perhaps in the content, touched this position of yours. The next one wants to discuss Mr Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u226	I won't be long. It's not about encouraging people to be small shareholders. People need to be encouraged to be active shareholders. Being an active shareholder is a position. I have the impression that with some persistent work, which is supported, of course, with a great deal of professional energy, we can trust those who have believed in the past years that in Slovenia we will also have in addition to banks and insurance companies the funds they have in Germany, especially in America, so that it is possible with some perseverance and I warn of mistakes, while encouraging those who have done a great deal in this area to move Slovenians and Slovenians to be active shareholders. Being a small shareholder is not our ambition. The original sin, and here we can be self-critical, is that the country was very cynical before it allowed the pids to fill themselves with property. She snitched a lot, and when she died, she gave 50% of her assets, relatively poor. There is, of course, one of the main reasons that there are no dividends yet, since there is almost no such thing as dividends. But we're on the right track. And if we make the right decision now, in the coming years, we can see that those of our citizens and citizens who have submitted the certificates to the pids have made a good decision. We'll figure that out. For example, those who have submitted a certificate to a management company that was then called the Golden Coin have today, through the transformed pid Medalion, already 512,000 tolars [[That's yesterday's data.]] . Those who then decided on the basis of different information for the Ljubljana Bank, Maxima, Murska Sobota, have 417,000. Those who chose Triglav have 431,000 in Triglav today. Unfortunately, some have also opted for the S-Cram and the pid Setev is worth only 121,000 today. PidTrnjava is only 117,000 in the management company of Krona or Pulzer. For example, the management company that I know very well, through the experts who work there, I also learned a lot, this is the Agricultural Company Investments - today have the shareholders on average, those who have submitted the certificate, 323,000. In recent days this number has increased by about 360,000. And if we make the right decision, this value will grow exponentially over the coming years. Only solutions that some think of, so you say, protecting small shareholders will have no impact on the growth of these stocks. When we get to Article 236, I will tell you my fear that a wrong decision could harm small shareholders; if I am convincing, we will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 3 and the amendment? Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. We, as a government, support this amendment, which has been tabled in Article 3 or Article 29, but we do not support this debate, which was primarily the debate on the pids here. We believe that we are talking about mutual funds and investment companies, and only partly about pids as a smaller part of the transformation, and this debate, we think, we have to do with this law that we are preparing. The law is in preparation, as we have already said, it has already been in coalition coordination and, if possible, will be invested in the National Assembly as soon as possible after an emergency procedure. That's another thing. As far as the data relating to pids and debates are concerned, we believe that these data are at least incomplete. In fact, they do not cover all parts of the pid privatisation or of the pid funds. If I mention only one information, for example, it is difficult to determine such values if we find that some companies are also closed companies. I only mention two, such as Omega Fin and Oktans, which I do not know how these values can be calculated. Third thing. Why is it possible to transform into a regular stock company? There's more than one cause. For the first time, the current law, the ZISDU and the amendments related to the First Pension Fund Act and the conversion of the pids allow for such transformation, and this law has been adopted by the national council, but this is not possible. Secondly, only moving to regular stock companies is, of course, linked to the property owned by a particular pid. Each pid cannot be transformed into a mutual fund or an investment company because it is either inequitable or unfit for such transformation. And the third thing about finding out he's not trying. He's trying to force himself into a relationship. It is with this law that we want investment firms to already come together and all or special investment companies that will be transformed into investment firms will also be moved, if this law is adopted in this form, into transitional mutual funds, which are the main forms in the financial markets and should also be with us. In short, we believe that these are issues that are also regulated in this law, or else the debate on these matters is, in my opinion, related to the law that is in preparation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you, Mr. Sibyl. Anyone else want a word? Comrade Companion, one more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State specifically stated and here I would like to say that I have written, for example, in this paper: from Athens the 1st Fund was transformed into a pid which was then called Activa Fi and because it joined the company Activa and SDD [[?]] Of course, I can't know the value of it today. And I have to admit that, and I didn't do it because I didn't take it all. But in this document I have, it is exactly the same position as the Secretary of State. For closed people, I can't have data because they don't get quoted on the stock market.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you. I can conclude the debate on Article 3 and the amendment of the groups of Members to Article 3 and move on to decision-making. We're voting. I know there's more of us in the hall. We weren't all careful. I'll repeat, we'll repeat the vote. May I have your attention, please? We're voting again. We will have a third vote in ten minutes, and 51 of us are in the Chamber. 20.38 votes for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u232	Colleagues and colleagues, please, if we prepare for the third vote. We will vote for the third time on the amendment to Article 3 of the Act. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Yes, we are moving on to Article 171, 177, I apologize, and to the amendment of the LDS, United Kingdom, SLS and DeSUS to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Lydia Majnik. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u233	Thank you very much. You don't have to. I don't know what kind of attention it is. I think we've cleared up what is the fixed part of the average annual net worth of assets. I would point out, however, that in the event of the adoption of this amendment, the last sentence should be corrected in order to delete paragraphs third, fifth and sixth paragraphs. Since the third paragraph speaks of the methodology of the second part and should be deleted, the third paragraph should also be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u234	Anyone else want a word? Would you like to table an amendment to the amendment? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u235	Yes, given that I have not been an investor in these amendments, I think it can also be corrected in the paper. Because it is an editorial error if this amendment is adopted, but I think the gentleman in the government is preparing for an answer. And maybe he'll explain later what the fixed part of income is.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u236	Thank you. Please, Mr. Sibil.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u237	Thank you very much. The government agrees with this amendment, and we also agree with this supplement, which is indeed of a technical nature. In fact, if this amendment is adopted, these points are not necessary. We support that. However, the question is whether it is possible to do so in writing or in oral form as an editor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u238	I propose that you prepare the amendment by the third reading when this amendment is adopted, and we will correct it there. Anyone else want a word? If not, we are moving on to an amendment to Article 177. We're voting! I'm at 48. The vote was 41, 2 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to 226th Article and the three amendments to this Article. The first amendment, the Slovenian People's Party, the second amendment of the LDS Parliamentary Club, the United List, the SLS and DeSUS, the third amendment - the same parliamentary group. Anybody want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u239	Thank you very much. It is clear from the material that we have tabled an amendment in our Group of Members one day earlier than a group of four groups. Unfortunately, because of some kind of agreement, we cannot withdraw the amendment, we will not support our amendment, but we will not support the amendment of the four parliamentary groups under points 2 and 3, and we will not support our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u240	Please. You've heard the explanation of Comrade Podobnik. I shall put to the vote an amendment under Article 1 to 226. Government, I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u241	In explanation. The Government supports amendments under the headings 2 and 3 of the LDS and the United List but not the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u242	We've heard the government's opinion. I'm putting it to a vote. We're voting! There's more of us in the hall. We'll vote next time. May I have your attention in the vote? We'll vote next time. We're voting! There's 49 of us here. They voted 3 to 39. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We will vote on the amendment under point 2 of the four parliamentary groups. We're voting! I'm at 48. 45 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment under point three. We're voting. We're voting. We weren't paying attention again. I'll repeat the vote. I have time, I never sleep like this. We'll vote next time. There are 48 of us present, 44 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 228. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. The amendments have been tabled by four parliamentary groups, the government - I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u243	We support the amendment tabled under Article 228.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u244	May I have your attention, please? The government supports the amendment. Let's go to the vote. We're voting. Forty-seven present, in favour of a vote of 42, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to Article 232 and the two amendments to this Article. They are both tabled by four groups of Members, LDS, UK, SLS and DeSus. Anybody want a word? Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u245	These amendments are also supported by the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you. Can we vote? Amendment under point one first. We're voting. We're voting. At 48, 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. And the amendment under point two. We're voting. Forty-six present, in favour of 42 votes, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] This amendment has also been adopted. We are moving on to Article 235 and the amendment of the four parliamentary groups - LDS, United Lists, SLS and DeSUS to this Article. Anybody want a word? The government?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u247	We also agree and support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u248	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Let's go to the vote. We're voting. At 46, 41.1 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. And also Article 236 and the three amendments to this Article. I beg your attention so we don't make the wrong decision. Two amendments, point one and two are under review, and you got one today on the table. Anybody want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u249	Thank you very much. As I have already announced, I would like to take another look at this amendment, or first of all at this member who is talking about the creation of investment companies. And if you look at page 140, paragraph 15, it says, "The investment company referred to in this article must," the emphasis is on the word must, "at the latest within two years" - the amendment tabled by the four groups of Members to replace the number of four, i.e. four years, if adopted - "from the date of receipt of the decision of the agency referred to in paragraph 7 of this Article, transform the number of two into a mutual fund." In our view, this is a question which could also be the subject of a debate as to whether this will not affect the provision of the Constitution which says - after equal treatment of operators on the market. This is said to be the case, by law, that an instrument or entity that is subject to corporate economic law must be transformed into a mutual fund in this case. I wouldn't want to burden you. I have very extensive arguments, which could also mean negative. That is why we first proposed an amendment in the parliamentary group, if you see a date yesterday, so that paragraphs 15th and 16th and 17th would be deleted, so that there would be no such provisions. However, we were looking for a solution that could be compromiseable and different. Allow me to introduce her to you. This also means that we will not support the first amendment in the Group of Members, but rather the one we tabled today. We tried hard to work on it, but it has the next purpose. We propose to add two new paragraphs, paragraphs 18 and 19, and it would read: "No matter the provisions of paragraph 15 of this Article, the investment company does not need to be transformed into an investment fund," and now the condition follows, and this condition is crucial - "if the management company that manages this investment company does not have to align the investments of all investment companies managed by a joint share of each issuer's shares with a voting right that consists of the investments of these companies with no more than 10% of all voting rights or participation in the capital of that issuer." If we went to see paragraph 70, we'd see that there's 20%. This is where we would suggest 10%. The following paragraph: "The management company managing this investment company shall carry out the harmonisation of the investments referred to in the preceding paragraph no later than the expiry of the third paragraph of this Article." In our view, such an amendment would achieve an equalisation between mutual funds and investment firms in terms of the impact of the investment firm on the issuer's administration and also access to the issuer's internal information, since they can represent a competitive advantage of the investment firm of the mutual funds. This amendment seeks to ensure that investment firms follow the objectives of managing the portfolio in favour of investors in investment firms and as such would not engage in active interference with the management of the issuer. In our view, therefore, Articles 15, 16 and 17 would remain, and our amendment would make a possible exception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u250	Thank you. My colleague, Miran Potch, has signed up for the meeting. No! No! I give my word to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The Government disagrees with Amendment 1 to Article 236. These solutions deviate substantially from the planned direction of the law and therefore we cannot accept this amendment. As far as the second amendment is concerned, the government considers that it is a solution that has the bad and the good side, and in this part we could agree with this solution of the second amendment. In the part of the new amendment that has been tabled, however, it is our view that this solution is also a departure from the intended orientation, although not as strong as in the case of the first amendment. That's why we can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u252	Thank you. Before we go to the vote, I would like to point out that if the amendment under point 1 is adopted, the amendment under point 2 becomes irrelevant. We vote on the amendment under point 1 of the Slovenian Human Party. We're voting! There are 47 of us present. They voted against 39. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment didn't get any support. Now we're going to vote on the amendment under item 2, I'm sorry, I'm terminating the vote. Explanation of voice. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u253	He will support the amendment under point 2. Since it was a bit noisy: because you did not interpret that if an amendment under point 2 was adopted, that the amendment under point 3 was subsequently tabled as irrelevant? No, no, no. We therefore support the amendment under point 2 to replace the number 2 with the number 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u254	Thanks for the explanation. We will now vote on the amendment under point 2 in the amendment review. We're voting! There are 47 of us present. The vote was 43.1 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. And we still have an amendment to this article you got on the bench. Under point 1, once again to Article 236 of the SLS Group. Please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u255	I'd like to explain my voice, why I'm going to support the amendment under point 3. The amendment referred to in point 3 is such that, of course, in the event that paragraph 15 applies, the investment firm referred to in this Article must be transformed into a mutual fund no later than four years from the date of receipt of the decision. Our amendment, however, allows for the possibility that the investment company should not have to do this if, of course, it does what it says in the amendment, in order to align the investments of all the investment companies it manages - so that I do not fully read the amendment - to more than 10% of all voting rights. Those who know more about the activities of such entities, you know that this is not an easy procedure. And some would like to transform into a mutual fund, but some would not. And if we accept the amendment, we will leave this open option, and I believe that even after the government representative's appearance it is possible to find arguments to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u256	Thank you. Nobody wants to explain their voice anymore. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting! There are 47 of us present. The vote was 11 to 26. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 26.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We have thus concluded the debate and decision-making on the articles and amendments to this Article. And second reading. Now that the second reading is completed, we should review all the amendments adopted and the articles adopted by the amendments. Before we go to third treatment. Do you want us to do this, or can we move on to the third reading? No one's asking for it. Then we'll go to third reading. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Yes, the amendments adopted to Article 3, Article 177, Article 236(2) and Article 3, Article 238(2), Article 232 (2) and Article 225 (2). However, Article 236(2) and nothing else. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u257	Thank you very much. It is not a matter of delay, but a group of Members would like to table an amendment to Article 236. We will also consult legal experts once again and try to find a correct way to make the idea that we had and our view that the solution could be unconstitutional, so that we can propose an amendment - we would like to do it tomorrow. So we could have some time to think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I suggest we stop this point. While the amendments are being prepared, we can move on to point 25a if you agree. Yeah. Milk confirms it to me. So I interrupt this agenda item to prepare the amendments for consideration. And we're going to point 25.A. It's a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on corporate tax, urgent procedure. As regards this item of the agenda, three draft laws have been tabled in the legislative procedure. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Taxation on the Profit of Legal Persons EPA-50 /II, second reading submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 20.5.1997 by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. Then the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, EPA 803-II, was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 7.5.1999 by the Council of the Republic of Slovenia and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, EPA 672-III, an urgent procedure submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 25.10.2002 by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided, in its consideration of those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure would lead on the basis of a proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure, for further explanation of the proposal for a law, I call on the two co-proposers of the bill, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome the representatives of the government. There is no representative of the State Council. I give the floor to Secretary of State Dark Končanuz to the introductory explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a new law on corporate tax before you in these late hours is very important. Indeed, in May, the Constitutional Court adopted a constitutional judgment and published it in June, which annulled it with effect on 31.12.2002, it is said that at the end of this year, so-called Article 12, one of the most important articles determining which business costs are also recognised for tax purposes in the production of tax balances. By this repeal and by means of a letter stating that it also identified why the effect of the repeal was at 31.12., the Constitutional Court also made clear the possibility that there would be irreparable damage to the State, unless at the end of the fiscal year and at the beginning of the new fiscal year there were new provisions which would redefine all those business costs which were also recognised for tax purposes. For this reason, the government, in particular for this reason, has tabled this amendment to the law following an emergency procedure, since any other situation would mean that any cost incurred by legal persons would also mean that the tax-recognizable expenditure would be essentially no longer any tax base from which profit would also be paid. Practically, though well, in some cases it was possible. At the same time, however, since we were aware, in the light of the new rules of procedure, that the amendments to the law that the Council of State had tabled a while ago have been introduced, we have also decided that, at the same time as this new provision of Article 12 described in Article 1 of this novelty, we will also draw up a proposal for some changes in the field of investment incentives, investment reserves, the recognition of depreciation rates and the like, which also responds to the novelties already tabled by the Council of State. In certain parts and in the course of the extensive debate that took place on the working body, we have essentially drafted a proposal for a new law before you. But the point of that would be very brief. In particular, due to some perceptions in the public, but especially in the economy, if this way the government intervenes in some, czech, acquired rights in respect of certain reliefs and similar and makes the situation of the economy significantly more difficult in the future. Although the transitional provisions clearly state that all the reliefs that have taken place in the past years and this year shall apply until expiry, until the end of the year. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to some changes so that I do not go into the details that you probably know about the actual circumstances of this original fiscal source in our public finances. Look, after all possible analyses and comparisons, we find that this fiscal resource is very neglected in us. Ignoreed in the sense that the rate of recovery from this title is significantly lower than the comparable average of both the European Union countries and our neighbouring countries. If tax revenues are considered to be approximately equivalent to all these countries in total to around 35 to 40, 42% and 411 for our country, then the European Union is subject to a significant deviation from the corporate income tax, which is calculated as a percentage of GDP. This rate is far from the lowest of all these comparable countries, according to the European Union as well as neighbouring countries and transition countries; this rate is 1.2. The Union average is three times higher, 3.5 and I say the other transition countries have a higher average. In fact, the corporate income tax in all tax revenues deviates substantially as such and is on average 2.8 and three and a half times higher in the European Union. What does all this mean? It means that, on the basis of this corporate tax or the law which entered into force on 1.1.1994, we are in substantially different economic and political circumstances and situations where, in the process of self-reliance and loss of former markets and new investment start-ups and cycles, investment in development has been essentially accelerated, that the situation has changed significantly since then and, as we say in explanation, that such over-investment and other reliefs have already been made in essence. With the changes that we are proposing, we will not, I say, intervene substantially, but it is true that this step is in fact already a prediction of a new system-wide law on corporate income tax, which is already in government procedure and I expect it to be in parliamentary procedure at the beginning of next year. So what does this actually mean in numbers, because there were so many, I would say, critics, including non-professional rumours about how drasticly we are going to intervene in the developmental possibilities of the economy. According to data for 2001 at the level of the Slovenian economy, the fiscal potential of the Slovenian economy, from which a profit tax could potentially be charged, is 475 billion. With all forms of facilitation, this potential is more than halved to 232 billion for 2001, then we collect 57 billion taxes. That's the 1.5 percent of GDP I mentioned earlier. Sorry, 1.2 percent of GDP. If we take a closer look at what all of these reliefs achieve or exceed and reduce this fiscal potential. In particular, it is an investment relief. Indeed, the current arrangement of 40 per cent investment relief for all legal persons means that for 161 billion, which is the bulk of all of that half-life, it is precisely for this purpose. In many well-known cases, if we do the analysis, we see that companies are very successful in exploiting these investment and other reliefs in such a way that, in fact, according to data published publicly, businesses also have a profit of 4, 6, 3 billion and so on, while the tax profit, if you believe or not, in some year one greater giant or business system, had only 100 000 tolars at 4.6 billion business profits. It is not surprising, therefore, that there have been so many reactions and feedbacks in the professional public, but the facts say that, of course, these interventions will only minimally affect these investment facilities and effects. The government assessed them, but on the well-known principle of "enteris paribus", which means, under the circumstances, under the unaltered circumstances for 2001. Of course, these circumstances will now change to a maximum of 10 billion, although we are realistically expecting that the circumstances will change so that this financial impact will be up to some 5 billion in total fiscal revenues. Perhaps even more about the actual taxation of legal persons in our system. I said earlier in relation to GDP compared to other countries, of course, the most effective comparison is, of course, the so-called effective rate of taxation. It is true that we do not have these comparisons with all other countries. But while the undeniably nominal rate of taxation is 25 per cent among the lowest in Europe, at the same time this effective rate reaches 11 per cent. So 11 percent of our companies are actually taxed on average by this profit tax. All we are proposing is that we take a small step towards what we will do with the new system laws or with the system tax law on corporate income in the coming year to propose that on the one hand this original source will be comparable to the others so that some other surrogates, tax surrogates who have emerged over the years may be really eliminated in the future, and that on this original source we will practically gain the same share of fiscal revenue as we have at the present moment, but with the help of other substitutes that partially distort the whole situation. Therefore, the Government would like to base, in addition to the repealed Article 12 and the new definition of this Article, where some criteria further justify what the business costs to be taxed are, and on the basis that, as in the entire profit tax law, this competence is given to the Minister responsible for finance, and on the initiative of some Members and other institutions, we have explicitly stated in this proposal of the new law that the Government's commitment to publish this sub-law by 1.1.2003 is also to propose that the National Assembly adopt this amendment to the law and thus allow legal persons to be normally taxed in the fiscal year 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u260	Thank you for the introductory explanation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! In view of the procedure, since there were three legislative proposals at the same time, the Committee discussed those proposals at two meetings and prepared this supplementary proposal, which was presented in the report of the Committee. I therefore propose that we fully support it without the support of the amendments of the three parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u262	Thank you. That was the committee's report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to the representative of the DeSUS Group, France Lenk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The basic purpose of the amendments and the addition of the Law on corporate tax is to bring the law into line with the requirement of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia which repealed Article 12 of the Law, since the conditions of expenditure which are a condition for the exercise of the activity of a legal person have not been sufficiently clearly defined. Article 1 of the amended bill, which we are currently considering, sets out Article 12 of the basic law clearly and clearly. Since the Government or the competent Ministry of Finance has already prepared an amendment to the above-mentioned Article of the Law, it has taken advantage of several other current corrections. Thus, in Article 2, amortisation periods or amortisation rates for individual fixed assets are partially coordinated and the conditions of economic operators will not be substantially changed. More important changes are proposed for tax relief. This reduces the current 40% overall investment relief to 20% and introduces an additional tax relief of 20% for investment investments, only in the field of the Republic of Slovenia, which was not a condition. However, Article 5 lays down in more detail which types of basic funds shall be eligible. The amendments are also proposed in the field of reserve relief and some minor changes. The law therefore changes the management conditions for 2003 and our economy was not expected for a month before the start of the new business year. On behalf of the affected economy, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which represented the interests of the economy and proposed tax incentives for investment investments, a smaller transition to 2003 and then to 2004. Her efforts to move gradually to new business conditions for economic operators have summed up all four coalition parties' groups in their amendment for a new 8 b/ Article, which should be acceptable to both the bill's proposer and the economic operators, so we propose its adoption. We will support the complementary proposal of the law and the amendment of the four parliamentary groups for Article 8 b/. From the discussions of the competent persons at the Ministry of Finance, we have received information that a new law on corporate tax is being prepared. We propose that the drafters of the law consider the selectivity of tax burdens and introduce incentives for investment investments in economically less developed regions with the lowest rate of social gross product and the highest unemployment rates in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr Victory Jelinčič is not to give his position to the SNS Group of Members, so I give my word to my colleague Janez Podobnik, for the position of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, last night in this place. It is understandable that as a government party in tax-related laws, we follow the government's decision and our support will go to this law. On the other hand, it is understandable that whenever a government decides in one way or another to increase the tax in some way by a change, a party to a human orientation that has a particular attitude towards the economy is very skeptical of such solutions. That is why we have also wanted to convince the government in recent weeks to reduce the overall level of investment relief to 20% and to maintain a 40% reduction in the narrower selection of investments, while at the same time limiting the tax advantage only to investments in the country; and we wanted the government to try to apply certain tax reliefs in this decision. We have received an answer that this will happen in a comprehensive marriage next year. We keep our word to all those who have promised it. In our view, it has now been an opportunity to, however, facilitate investment in development. We have proposed that the law would facilitate development projects financed through the capital market. If I can explain. If a listed company decides to tender additional shares and to record in its public presentation to shareholders that, for example, 80% of this money will go into technological development, that this can be tax relief. This is an experience around the world, and this is a very good way to stimulate development. We weren't supported. As a matter of fact, even because it was supposed to be resolved in a comprehensive marriage. We hope that happens. At the same time, we have also proposed that, by amending this law, we should be looking at the possibility of going into the adoption of so-called real estate investment funds in the coming months. They will be stimulated and motivated to invest if tax incentives are possible before that. Here too, it was said that this still needs to be rethought, examined, and then made a comprehensive decision. We have also been very attentive to the position of government representatives that the proposed amendments to the law select tax reliefs mainly on activities that generate higher added value. The government has decided to limit this to all tax reliefs only to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. What if other countries treat Slovenia the same way and also foreign owners will not invest in development-oriented projects in Slovenia in companies where they own Slovenia. That logic is not our logic. This logic runs counter to the idea of a global open economy that represents free movement of people, capital and knowledge. My friend Christmas tried to enforce on his working body such a solution. Unfortunately, he wasn't convincing. As we say, we will also try to implement this solution in a comprehensive law that we hope will be implemented as soon as possible in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u266	Thank you very much. More SDS position, mag. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u267	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to the government! As an opposition Member alone, I will be much clearer about this law than my fellow Member, Podobnik. I think it is unwise to intervene in such a sensitive area both in horror, without clear analysis of the impact and consequences of such reductions in tax relief, as regards investment in buildings, in some possible development projects of our economy, particularly in Slovenia. I think it is true that in Slovenia there is a rather high level of relief for these investments. On the other hand, I think that the non-selective approach to facilitating is also poor. I think we need to go to some sort of reduction of these reliefs. This is said to be true that unwise investments are not subject to facilitation and that in fact reliefs relate only to those priorities and, last but not least, to the memoranda of principles, such as technological development and the like. Therefore, I do not think the Ministry of Finance has taken any key comments from representatives of the Slovenian economy into account. I don't think any serious analysis of the consequences of this has been done either. Therefore, we cannot and cannot support this idea in any way, in order to reduce the tax rate without a comprehensive approach to these tax reliefs. Finally, we welcome this intention to abolish tax reliefs for investments outside Slovenia and, of course, direct and encourage Slovenian companies to invest in us and thus develop the Slovenian economy and consequently open jobs and reduce unemployment. In short, the law that interferes with one of the development dimensions of our economy is very short, it is very sceptic, it is not justified and I do not think there are enough arguments for such drastic intervention. In fact, I think even the opposite is that the only reason for these changes is that there is a need to increase some tax revenue, because obviously there is not enough revenue in the budget on this page for all too many needs and that this is some way of filling the state budget. However, I hope and believe that it is not at the expense of the developing Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u268	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. I hereby conclude this part of the debate. We're moving to second reading. We are moving on to a debate on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. There was no special review because today two amendments, one to Article 5, were passed by the Socialists of Slovenia, 28.11. and a new Article 8b of the four parliamentary groups: the LDS, the United List, the SLS and DeSUS. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment to Article 5. Who wants a word? Mag. A viscous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u269	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 5 is prepared in order to maintain a 40% tax relief for all. In fact, however, following the Secretary of State's warning, there has been a mistake, as this amendment would increase tax relief for some in the second paragraph to 60%, which is not the purpose of the amendment. The purpose of the amendment is only this - and therefore, of course, we announce a correction of this amendment - the purpose of the amendment is to maintain a 40% tax relief for investments in the Republic of Slovenia. Here we also join in some of the restrictions introduced by the novelties of the law. But the basic point is to maintain a 40% tax relief for all investments. Therefore, the President would like to ask procedurally for the opportunity to share this amendment, which is already in circulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u270	It's an amendment to the amendment. If I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u271	No, no, no. I was clear enough. It's the repair of our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u272	It could be an amendment to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u273	Either a replacement or an amendment to Article 5 of the government proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u274	Mag. Visik, you can put an amendment to the amendment at this stage. Let's move on to the debate. I give my word to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Not only did I remind the honourable Member of the complete disagreement between the proposed amendment and the explanation, but he said that he had forgotten the various other paragraphs, thus even achieving that 60 per cent of the investment would be a relief. In addition, in his opening speech, he spoke about drastic pressures on the economy and increasing tax revenues and so on. Dear Members, look at the data, what is the share of investments in our Slovenian economy, compared with other countries that are comparable or likely to be compared. In 1997, the share of investments in Slovenia was 23.4 per cent. The percentage in the Union is around 20 and slightly lower. Ireland, with which some like us, or try to compare, 20.3. In 1998, from 23.4, we have a share of investments 24,6, Ireland 21.9 and about 20 is the European Union average. In 1999, the share of investments in our GDP of 27.4, in the Union, has only slightly improved and far from reaching this percentage. Thus, this is due to the fact that investments in our economy are actually very large to encourage and continue to encourage them. Clearly, the content of the proposed Article 5 was not understood. It might be understood differently if we said: 40 is left, but let's reduce to 20 in the case of investments in buildings and land. It's actually just an effect. However, it is technically designed to reduce the general by 20 and then increase by 20 all investments that are in equipment, technology, development, machines and so on. And the difference between this change is just the walls and the land. And the difference is in passenger cars and office furniture. I understand and I believe it may be a little harder to understand, but these are facts. We will not intervene drastically in the economy. I said earlier that up to 5 billion in 2004 were only the first financial effects. What enters into force in fiscal year 2003 has its financial implications only in 2004 for the budget. For 2003, to see that they are not drastic interventions, the 2003 budget proposal or programme indicates that we expect 85 billion tax revenues from this title, and in 2004 about 90 billion, which means how many of these five billion are now. These are not drastic consequences. I said, large systems that invest enormously, and many macroeconomicists and not only macroeconomics in Slovenia, also foreign experts have warned us that such excessive investment incentives lead to irrational investment decisions. And that's a fact. In the event of such large business profits, almost no tax on tax profits is paid. That is why the government rejects this proposed amendment also with this amendment, because it is only a small step in the way of what we want to achieve through the new system law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u276	Thank you. One more word, mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u277	If the Secretary of State has a problem with understanding, it may not be the fault of someone he's hard to understand, but somewhere else. However, I think that it leads, above all, to such an unselective approach to intervention in tax reliefs, such an unselective approach is unreasonable. I believe that a lot of people are doing irrational, economically unwarranted investments and that it turns out quickly or in time. It's just that some people do. I have some such examples in my congregation myself. And investment in the walls. I agree. However, it is not possible to intervene quickly in such tax reliefs without a selective approach. And here's the key problem. You're the one who said you only interfered with the walls. It's actually true. From 40 to 20 to the walls. Just take a look. So unselective, regardless of activities, regardless of those priorities of economic development in Slovenia, to intervene in these matters, I think it is unwise, too quickly, that we may get a headache. Two laws back then we corrected one amendment to the Disability Insurance Act because we saw that it was only necessary to coordinate slightly differently, as we outlined two years ago. I hope that these drastic consequences, or these consequences, will be deleted by the word "drastic", this law will not be drastic, I hope, but I do not believe because there are no analyses. I think that's a bad approach. I therefore oppose and suggest to the government that it examine these facilitations more systematically, in order to introduce selective mechanisms for promoting or non-incentivising investments in Slovenia and those that are at stake, such as through technological development, updating, increasing productivity, increasing competitiveness, they encourage, but not to say that we do not need all investments in buildings. I don't think so. The construction of a new factory based on some modern technology, which means technological development, cannot be compared to the construction of some imported and well-established trade anywhere else, which we know can be very difficult for a longer period or in some investment cycle to survive. In short, there's no way to throw this thing all the way. I see a flatness here, a superficiality, so I object.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u278	Thank you. I repeat my word to the Secretary of State, Mr Koncan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! You're coming in the opposite direction with yourself. With your amendment, you come to what is 40% general relief. What the government proposes is a partially selective approach. That's the first thing. And secondly, there is no way that we can share relief by character, the physionomy of individual taxpayers, because we would come into conflict with a constitutional principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u280	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word on Article 5? An amendment to the amendment was announced. Because we don't have it yet. Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u281	This amendment is copied and shared. I propose that we stop this point and continue the earlier interruption and continue with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u282	I cannot accept this proposal because there will also be no amendment there today. That's why in 10 minutes. [[...]] [[The voices in the background.]] Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u283	Dear Vice President! I was at the first working meeting of the Association Committee of the European Union today at 8:30. It's 9:38. Of course, I plead for the leadership of this national council to start wasting time rationally. After changing the rules of procedure, we actually started working late in the night. I see no reason, no emergency situation, so that at 9:38 a.m. after a long workshop we can still think rationally about something that we don't even have on the table. The call is if you don't think there's gonna be an amendment in 10 minutes to do this vote tomorrow morning. But if this is the vote, let's say it orally again and go to the vote because I don't want to wait any longer. I'll go home. At home, I have a young family waiting for me to be with them at some point.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Under the rules of procedure, it is possible for the oral proposer to present an amendment to the amendment. If there's no objection, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u285	In fact, the amendment is purely technical. I'd read the amendment and file it in writing, if that's all right. I hope so. However, it is necessary to supplement the amendment by leaving the text as it is, and to delete the second paragraph, delete the third paragraph, the following text, which becomes the fourth paragraph, shall be deleted in the fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u286	I am putting this proposal to the debate. Have we understood enough what the proposer wants to submit? The text of the amendment shall be corrected by correcting the words: 'The second paragraph shall be deleted, the third paragraph shall be deleted. In the fourth paragraph, the words "which becomes the fourth paragraph" shall be deleted. "The debate on this. Anybody want a word? If not, I can close the debate. We decide on this amendment to the amendment. We're voting! Forty-seven present. The vote was 5 to 39. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment is not accepted. We are now voting on the amendment to Article 5. We are voting on the amendment to Article 5! There's 46 present. Vote 6 to 37. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. For this reason, I am now putting to the debate and decision the amendment of the four groups of Members for a new Article 8b. Who wants a word? Tone Anderlich first, then Cyril Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u287	I will, of course, support the amendment because there is a compromise between what Mr Vizjak has proposed and between what was in the basic proposal. It is simply that any provision that comes so suddenly also has consequences for market operators, i.e. the economy from which we all live. This step envisaged in this amendment, i.e. of these investments in buildings, in particular from 40 to 20, is to come gradually, and the rest is to be regulated in a manner that the government has proposed to promote investment in technology, knowledge and development. That is why we believe that this would be an amendment that is in favour of the economy, and that is why I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u288	Thank you. Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Given that the Secretary of State has scolded, I believe that you will either support the amendment or not oppose it. I would like to know from what sources the missing revenue will be replaced, unless the assessment in the basic text of the law, the 10 billion, has been overly optimistic and in fact the change itself or the departure from the basic text does not bring about or bring about anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u290	Thank you. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In its opening address, the government did not want to define itself separately and immediately in the beginning to this amendment, although of course we wanted to do so on this occasion. The government does not explicitly oppose this amendment because, for these reasons, Mr Anderlič has defined, given that it has always been, and I have also said in the introductory address, a lot of responses in the professional public, but mainly in the economy and the argument as to whether, as the Member has mentioned earlier, this will have a drastic impact on this area or not. After having been informed of this desire of the economy, the government, during the last two days, has thoroughly re-examined and examined these matters. And since I said in the introduction that, in the second year, we are also putting into parliamentary procedure a system-wide law on corporate income tax, which will intervene thoroughly and re-establish the whole area in general, we are not opposed to this amendment. This means that this amendment will essentially have the effect of applying slightly lower investment incentives for two additional years, according to estimates in 2003 and 2004, and in response to the question put forward by Commissioner Puck, since I mentioned earlier that the first financial consequences and effects will be in 2004, if we have assessed on the basis of the principle of "enteris paribus" under the unchanged circumstances in 2000 and 2001, that the expected financial impact will be around 10 billion if we take into account the changed circumstances which, in terms of the empire, we can assess that the largest possible extent of the reduction in investment relief under the initial proposal will be up to 5 billion, we estimate that this amended government proposal will in essence be in place in this context of action. On the other hand, because certain forecasts also speak of economic cycles developing favourably, at least in large business systems. Why am I talking about this? I have specifics. Previously, it was obvious that we didn't have any tests. I could tell you a lot of data on all of these analyses here, and I could tell you if I was talking earlier about large business systems, which also have their name and address, that they are and that business profits have been increasing in billions of years. These are facts, and these trends show unstoppable growth, which means that, with significant investment incentives, we will also achieve that these companies will pay slightly more tax than profit and not those 100,000 tolls or some 10 million in the next year compared to 6 billion business profits. The government estimates that these changes will be somewhat familiar with the budget, but we cannot quite precisely assess them. However, we expect half of that realistic expectation to be 5 billion, about 2 to 3 billion in budget revenues in 2004.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u292	Thank you. More mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u293	I don't know if it's worth it or not, because I think we're all in here confident, but I can see that it really isn't because the Secretary of State is convincing enough for himself. Look how he's getting in the way. First speaking emergency procedure, because it just takes a quick, what, up, down. Now there is no objection to some stretching of the matter for a long time. The matter is based on an analytical impact assessment and so on, but here it is easy to forget and extend enforcement and, of course, prolongs a transitional period. This only strengthens my conviction that it is a horrifying method, how to charge cash, but not with 10 and 5, if not with 5 and 2 billion, in a bad way, in a way that is not based on some serious proposal, analysis and not having any clear implications at all. I only hope that it will not cause too much damage to the developing Slovenian economy. And that's all. It is clear that more is invested in the Slovenian economy than in foreign economies. We have completed the transition or end the transition. We are at a stage, I would say, one of the faster developments, as is somehow known or characteristic of members, other comparable members. Thank God we do, because we have to catch up to them if we want to live on the same level over the years. In order for this development to "breathe" here, I see more weaknesses than benefits.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u294	Thank you. I don't see any more desire for a debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment for a new Article 8b. Please note that we will not vote twice. We're voting! There are 47 of us present. 41 votes against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. I'll take a second look at this. I'm moving to third reading. We note that only one amendment has been adopted for the new Article 8b. Does anyone else want to fully discuss the law? [[Nobody.]] Is the law consistent? Who wants to put an amendment in third reading? [[Nobody.]] So we can make a full decision about the law. Government, is the law in line with this or is it inconsistent? It's consistent. It is said that we can make a full decision on the law. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 46 of us present. 35 votes against 4. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against four.]] The law has been passed. I'm closing the 25th A-point of the agenda. We will proceed with the end of the 25th item tomorrow because the amendment announced is not ready. Thank you for your cooperation, and I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly. Good night!
