ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u1	Good afternoon to all who are here, and I invite all who are in the lobby to come to the hall. Please insert the voting cards into the machines so that they can understand approximately the presence in the hall so that they can also identify the presence. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace in the hall! Please, if you take your seats, we will begin the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I have invoked it on the basis of Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Allow me to inform you who is detained by our colleagues today and cannot attend. But that's what I'll do when the hall calms down. Please, please, please, please, please, They apologized to colleague Lavrič, colleague of Štemberger, Trofenik, Sušnik, Čebulj, Rupar, Zamernik, colleague of Simšič for the session, colleague of Peterle, after 17.30 colleagues of Weber, for the meeting of colleagues Jerič, Kacin, Kopushar, Kremjar, colleague of Mose from 18.30 onward, colleague of Švagan, Battelli and colleague Janša. Please note the presence in the hall and please insert the cards and press the "quorum" button. There are 56 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are also invited to attend today's meeting. Mr. Secretary, I say hello to you and me. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 13th extraordinary meeting. With reference to the 15th of January this year, you received a agenda covering only one item of the agenda, the second reading of the proposal for a law amending the law on medicines and medical devices. I'm asking, would anyone like a word for a motion for withdrawal or expansion? I've never received a proposal before. Yes, Comrade Peca, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u2	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we sent you a request to convene an extraordinary meeting some time ago, to convene such an extraordinary meeting, which will comply with the business provisions and which will reflect the word "excellent". So something like this is happening in this country that makes sense to use the Institute of Extraordinary Meetings. This was when we tried to put the protection legislation into the Slovenian legal order in two areas: the takeover law and the competition law, in accordance with the European legal order. It's the opposite of today. At that time, it was a matter of protecting the domestic economy. But, dearly respected present, few of you have ever been willing to support such an extraordinary session. So, back up the acts that would protect the domestic economy. Today, Mr Pahor, when you receive a request or when you receive a request to convene an extraordinary meeting by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the adoption of acts that destroy the Slovenian economy, support this call or also convene an extraordinary meeting. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I ask you to put to the vote to remove from today's agenda a point which is unfortunately the only one concerning the amendment of the law on medicines and medical devices, and if I can take advantage of the opportunity to extend. Would you excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u3	Please. About the withdrawal first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u4	Then it's the end of the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u5	Okay. You have heard a proposal from Comrade Péčet to remove the only item proposed from the agenda. Does the rapporteur of the home working body wish to speak on this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? A representative of the government? Mr. Minister, would you like a word on this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] Okay, then we are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. 62 colleagues and colleagues were present and 11 voted in favour, 38 against. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal did not receive the required majority. He has already asked for the floor at the point of enlargement of the agenda. Please, Comrade Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u6	Your Honor! One more word. As I said earlier in the introduction, it would seem reasonable to protect the Slovenian economy, but not to open it up to foreigners, even more, to destroy the Slovenian economy, even within the framework of laws, and to place Slovenian economists in an unequal position with, say, foreigners, which in any way interfere with the Slovenian economy, either through exports-imports or market conditions within our country. Accordingly, I propose that we take advantage of today's extraordinary session and include in it two more laws, a law that we have tried to place on an extraordinary session a long time ago. Otherwise, you are on the previous call for the next regular session. We are convinced that in the framework of both laws - i.e. the takeover and competition law - this is a matter of timely or timely welcome, especially when it comes to the protection of national interests and, at this point, to the current topic, that is, the brewery story. I propose that the National Assembly support the inclusion of both laws in today's extraordinary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Peca therefore proposes an extension of the agenda. He proposed two items of the agenda and mentioned what was right and correct, but they were included in the meeting call starting next week on Tuesday. Does the rapporteur of the home working body want to say a word about these two proposals, individually? Does the rapporteur want a word? Don't you? The takeover bill first? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[Not at all.]] With regard to these two proposals, do the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal by Comrade Pečet to extend the agenda by one point, a proposal for a law on additions to the takeover law, following a rapid procedure. This is my colleague's proposal. We will vote on that. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There were 66 colleagues and colleagues present, 16 against, 40 against. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has not been adopted. Mr Peče suggests that the agenda should also be extended by means of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the prevention of restrictions on competition. We also vote on this proposal. That proposal shall be put to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 colleagues and 16 in favour, 40 against. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has not received the necessary support. Anyone else want to propose an extension of the agenda? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I propose that we vote on the draft agenda as a whole. We're voting. 64 colleagues and colleagues were present, 48 supported and 7 opposed. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] In accordance with the adopted agenda, we are thus moving on to a second proposal for a law amending the laws on medicinal products and medical devices. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] Please, Mr. Secretary. Excuse me? Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u8	Mr President, I believe that this is such an important point, with extremely far-reaching consequences, not on primary health, but on an economic and political issue where we need Members to decide on exact data or exact information. I think that this point is somehow linked to membership in European institutions, Nate, economic affairs, and we need to have the most excellent and exact information on what this means for our country. For this reason, I have expected the Prime Minister to appear here, but it will certainly concern at least two ministries, additional ministries, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[...]] With all due respect to Minister Kebra, to his intellect, I hope he agrees with me that this is not his internal matter. Mr President of Parliament, I think you are also aware of how important the issues are, how important the information is here, how important it is to make sure that Parliament has substantive information. I'm stressing again. Last time we were with the delegation of the foreign policy committee in the Austrian Parliament - let Jakič not say, not to take Austria as an example, Mr Podobnik, Mr Kacin led - when the Temelin case was there, Chancellor Schüssel and the Foreign Minister and all the other ministers sat there. Let it also be with us once, so that we will listen to the best quality information in the first-hand important matters in the country, and please ensure that you participate from the government, which will ensure that Members can be informed with all these informations that are interactive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u9	Comrade Jerovšek, I will act in accordance with the powers, not least the national assembly as a whole. Just as we as a government are aware of the sensitivity of the issue, the government is likely to decide who will be involved here. I also received a notification that the government will be represented here by Professor Dusan Keber, Minister, and Professor Dr Stanislav Primožič, Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines - this is an autonomous decision of the government. And I'm obliged to warn you and inform you of that. Anyone else want a word? Technically, no. Then we can proceed. I give my word to the Minister. Dr. Keber, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u10	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me begin by mentioning that experts from relevant ministries are waiting in the lobby of this hall: foreign affairs, government services for European affairs, the economic ministry and the relevant powers will not only wait in the lobby but will also be able to attend this Chamber. Otherwise, let me start [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u11	Can you, before, Minister, speak - the government has to empower them to participate in the debate, and we will immediately invite them to participate in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u12	Otherwise, we have before us a proposal for changes to the law, which is probably one of the laws that has really provoked one of the greatest attentions of this national assembly. In fact, this proposal is very short, abolishes the duration, postpones the duration of a previous law, and so allow me to make a brief historical review of the protection of medicines in the world, legal regulations in this area. Personally, I am one of those who are aware that medicines in the world are extremely protected, that the industry that manufactures these products is extremely strong, is fighting for its survival, and that it persists also through the long-term protection of its products, to extract the funds invested in them and to prevent the emergence of so-called generic medicines, which are in fact almost copies of these medicines, with the same effects, which, of course, because they do not have to invest so much for development, and especially for clinical studies, can be significantly cheaper. That is why not only patented legislation, but also other legislation, with a common term, will be used to protect medicines. Slovenia has adopted a large majority of this legislation a long time ago; it can also be proud of the fact that some of these international laws have been passed without delay [[Let me mention the "trip" agreement.]] . And today we are talking only about one aspect of the protection of these medicines, it is about the so-called exclusiveness of data, the right to reference, not to availability, but the right to reference to the data of the factory that first produced the medicine. Since data are essential for the implementation of the medicine - in my mind mainly long-term and very expensive clinical studies - generic factories are generally unable to afford them, certainly not to that extent, and so far they have or have had the right to refer to studies of original manufacturers, if this original producer in the country of the generic manufacturer has deposited their materials with the Medicines Office. This has only come into the global and European legal order years ago, that this is no longer possible or that it is necessary to respect this for six years after the arrival of a particular medicine in a given country. And we, in our Law on Medicines and Medical Devices in 1999, confirmed this, accepted it, and accepted it without delay. This was in November 1999. In the coming months, in 2000 it was shown that this law had consequences, simply stated [[I'll tell you later.]] delay or delay the possibility of a generic producer entering the market with its product for one to six years. As a result, on 21 July 2000, this Parliament adopted a similar short law as before you today, where it postponed the application of this Article of the previous Act until 31 December of this year. The reason why we can agree and what is stated in the explanation of the current law is that the immediate implementation of this deadline would be contrary to the economic and economic interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of pharmacy and indirectly health. The immediate adoption of this law has been the subject of appeals by the international community, both by the European Union and in particular by the United States, that this procrastination law constitutes Slovenia's derogation from the rule of law and the pressure to shorten or abolish this postponement. This is how we have the documents on calls from the European Union, where we are reminded that this is contrary to the already closed chapter on the free movement of goods and services, which Slovenia has closed in 2000 and by the US Office of Pressure and, of course, the threat that Slovenia will be included in the so-called "watch" list, or on the list of observation countries, unless it changes this law or postpones that deadline. This fact, of course, lasts a year and a half and at that time the government and this Parliament have been preparing the procedure that led to this meeting today. During this time, of course, if I say very simply, we have chosen an additional deadline for our industry for one year and more and I can say that we have eliminated all the short consequences of enforcement if the law was applied immediately in 2000. I can say that in constant contact with our pharmaceutical industry, whose importance we are aware of in this country, we have jointly prepared measures to remedy all the short-term damage caused by the rapid implementation of this law. To put it even more simply, this moment has no sign, no evidence, and there are also statements by the pharmaceutical industry that there is no drug this year that the pharmaceutical industry would like to register under the existing law, because we have arranged all these things so far. The fact is, therefore, that for the pharmaceutical industry and its potential harm or benefit is absolutely whatever, in our opinion, I will also quote some statements by the pharmaceutical industry whether this law is in force in March 2002 or in force on 31 December 2002. All the consequences begin in longer hands, are inevitable, have been encountered by all countries in the world and cannot be avoided if we want to judge among countries that agree with the international legal order, although sometimes it is not solely for the benefit of an individual. It is almost impossible for this House, which itself adopts laws, to prove that the rule of law must be respected, that it must be all the more sad, of course, but the truth is that a small country as a large country is respected, but the position of a small country is precisely that, with respect for the rule of law, it can also set a mirror for great countries if they do not respect the rule of law themselves. I think that this is also the power of the state of Slovenia in international relations. I would like to say that, in parallel with the discussions in what form and at which point Slovenia will submit to Parliament, the Slovenian Government has submitted to Parliament this law, which is before you today, there has been an important reverse initiative by our Government or its Ministry of Health, where we have started, and so far very slowly, and despite the already very responsive action in the United Nations at the global health organisation and in bilateral contacts with some countries, where we are talking about so-called international solidarity in the field of drug prices, where we are trying to refer to the principle that has led to the appreciation of medicines for AIDS in Africa and we want to extend it to a larger group of medicines, so-called medicines that save lives and that many countries in this world cannot afford. We want to apply the principle that medicines, including the original ones, will also be of high price, that their price will depend on the purchasing power or on the social product of each country and not on the market price of the manufacturer. It is quite clear that this issue goes beyond market legality but interferes with international policy. I am almost certain that this is a matter of health, which is the right of every citizen, such as those of others, and these other rights are already being tried in international courts today, and although they are happening in different countries, it is likely that the time will come when the cynicism of producers who do not allow expensive products to come to those countries that cannot afford them will come to such courts, let us hope, because of the lack of these medicines, that citizens die. There is no doubt, however, that the law before you today is agreeing that we respect the rule of law, that we have already confirmed this acquis once before, in 1999, that we have escaped it for a certain period, and that today is really just a matter of whether we want to insist on the law that sets the deadline by the end of 2002, that is whether we want to achieve 8 or 9 months, or whether we want to shorten this period because the international community is also threatening us with certain sanctions. Although I would like to make it the other way around, that we are adopting the law because we are aware that we agree with the legal order, but it is clear that we need to add an interpretation of why this law is now under urgent procedure before you and it has not been before or since. It wasn't because we literally, which may not even be good to say because of the other party listening to what will be said in this House, but because we were literally concerned that the interest of our pharmaceutical industry would not be affected. And since this pharmaceutical industry is also at the meeting of the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons on 5 December, so in preparation for this meeting last year - we thought that this law would already be at the December session - let me remind you, unanimously confirmed this amendment of the law, 13:0, and the representative of the pharmaceutical industry, President of the Board of Lek, Mr. Dragonja, stressed in his debate [[reading Minutes]] that "the Association of Producers of Medicinal Products also wishes to contribute to the harmonisation of Slovenia's legal regime in the field of medicines and medicines with global standards". Let me add, therefore, that other contacts, joint meetings, on a formal and informal level, allow for the conclusion that the pharmaceutical industry does not like to, but nevertheless is aware of the fact that it is necessary to reach this law and that it is also accepted in this form. Therefore, it is not difficult for me to say that I was surprised to hear the statements made yesterday and the day before that, which put the position of the pharmaceutical industry in a different light. Allow me to add a few points or some answers to the questions of the previous days, since there will be more discussion later. First, that generic medicines are 10 times cheaper than the original medicines, in short, is spoken without data. Generic medicines are, according to the rules and also in practice, at least the latest, the latest and most expensive medicines, about 10% cheaper than products that come in original form to us from the world. Then a speech about the possible adoption of this law means a disaster for the health treasury, for the breakdown of the health system. There are at least two things to mention here. First of all, our manufacturers, regardless of their strength - they should be given all recognition - are one of the largest, perhaps both of the largest producers of generic medicines in Central and Eastern Europe, with great reputation, and nevertheless produce only about 1/3 of the medicines we need from Slovenians. And we get 2/3 of the drugs from the world. It's also original. It is always only at prices that they place abroad, and we have succeeded in our determination and the establishment of medicines prices, that the original medicines are also the lowest in Europe as a rule, or at least among the lowest in Europe. The consequences in the coming years, of course, in terms of finances, are that our generic industry will be able to introduce the drug that it will choose with a few years of delay. It must be said that in the future it is unlikely that it will be able to follow at the same pace. 1/3 of the medication is a legacy of the past. This 1/3 contains medicines that are also 100 years old. If you look at how fast modern medicines are introduced in a generic form, compared with global medicines, of course, the ratio is significantly different. This means that in the future our industry will be one part, with all its expertise, knowledge and power. She didn't give us that information, so we don't have any data either. Allow me to conclude that there will probably be less than 20 percent of these medicines that she will produce herself. These drugs will come to Slovenia, as I said, not ever, but by delaying one to six years. In this one to six years we will have only one original medicine on the market. Just like all over the world. There is a rule throughout the world that the original drug has a monopoly until it is interrupted by these rules of the game. Well, at that time, we're going to have a more expensive drug, and hopefully, if I follow the analogy that we have so far, that this drug will somehow be 10 to 15 percent more expensive than it would have been if it had happened to us before. It is difficult to assess the real effects expressed in percentages, especially since we believe that in the interim period when all this develops, there will be significant changes in international views on the prices of medicinal products. Before us is a period that could be more optimistic, which I have mentioned to you in part, and which will affect the different pricing of medicines that will not be so exclusively and explicitly preying on the profits of pharmaceutical giants. In any case, we believe that this year, and the debate is actually about this - probably no one is proposing, even if I have read well the proposed amendment, no one is proposing a longer postponement proposal. Let's say four years from now. We are all moving forward that there would be a law by the end of this year and we have not received this year, and we have also received oral assurance that the pharmaceutical industry has emptied its pockets. He has nothing to offer this year. Otherwise, of course, she would have told us, especially because we asked her honestly, even in her care. On the contrary, there is everything that is unclear, which means, in particular, what, as you Members, not the Minister of Health, decide, means possible disregard for the rule of law and what the consequences are for us. What does it mean to be classified on the so-called "watch" list? We have experts among us who will be able to explain this to you at your request. But the listing of observed countries, of course, means that this country receives the seal of a country that does not respect intellectual property. Such a country is on closer observation, processes or analyses are repeated for three months, pressures are escalating and, of course, the consequences are possible and depend on different political circumstances and circumstances. First of all, there is no doubt under pressure that the same industry, which in the home country, for example, triggered a reason for the state to be included on the "watch" list. So first of all, our pharmaceutical industry and its situation in the United States would be ours. This would undoubtedly be followed by a review and a view of our economy as a whole and, of course, through increased pressure, as a last resort, it is possible for our country to come under pressure from anti-dumping laws, customs and the like. All of this may or may not have happened, some have happened, some countries have had to accept these pressures in the past. Let me mention that the "watch" list itself was a test of international law. It has been very critical, but this pressure has endured, including the position of the World Trade Organisation. So this time the procedure before this American Commission is legal and America is applying it to defend the interests of its industry. Undoubtedly, the possibility is at least - and by drawing close to my conclusion - I will again approach health care - it is undoubtedly that producers of original medicines can simply withdraw their existing or future new products when they arrive on our market with a legitimate fear that we do not have properly protected intellectual property, and this would also be a very high pressure on our market. The absence of a single cytostat that prolongs life, the rejection of a registration application in Slovenia, of course, would mean a completely new, different pressure on our country by patients. So, in fact, we have before us, we could say, only bad choices if we want to discuss it this way. It is good that this time our position is still such that we are alone, despite the fact that there are already threats in the background, we are adopting a legal order that we have already confirmed two years ago. Another possibility is that we will do so later under pressure and will not reap any additional benefits in the interim period, and it is very possible that there will be additional damage. Therefore, I think that if debates on the so-called national interest are opened today, it would be possible to think about what our interest is in this particular case. Our interest, if I do not, in this case, clearly weigh in a soft way the benefits or damages of this proposal, we think that the intended damage is definitely greater than the benefits because we have already gained our own. But in any way, our international position of a country that is concerned that it is included in the legal system, which is, after all, also in the trials, at this moment is significantly more important than perhaps illegal or unsupported by the European legal order of experimentation, perhaps something else that may cost us the reputation that we have gained in these years of a single country with all the merit, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Minister, for this introductory statement on the law on changes to the law on medicines and medical devices. It was discussed and concluded by the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. The president's already coming in front of the microphone and he's got a word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with a co-worker! Dear colleagues, fellow Members! Nice to meet you. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons discussed at its 14th regular session on 5.12., a proposal for a law, as presented in the procedure for today's plenary. While the introductory explanation of the law was given in a somewhat shortened version on behalf of the motioners, Mr Minister Keber would not have repeated it. However, the members of the Committee also took note of the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, which notes that the proposal for a second reading is in accordance with Article 187 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that the applicant, with further explanations and professional reasons, has eliminated the concerns about the constitutionality of the effect of the European Union approved for a transitional period of five years within the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the system of action, of the six-year period referred to in the third indent of Article 15, paragraph 15, of the Act following the implementation of the proposed amendment to the law. The proposer also corrected the text of Article 2 of the draft law accordingly, thus correcting the legal technical shortcomings of the time limit. The President of Lek's administration also took part in the debate, Mr. Methods of Dragonja, who stressed that the association of pharmaceutical manufacturers also wants to contribute to the harmonisation of Slovenia's legal regime in the field of medicines and medicines with global standards. Regarding the treatment of already submitted marketing authorisation applications for a particular medicinal product, the Committee considered that there should be no specific complications if the applications already submitted would be dealt with under the current legislation. In June, however, it should be stressed that the potential inability of Slovenian drug manufacturers to offer a generic product to the market as an alternative to a very expensive original medicine - this can be so expensive due to the monopolistic possibility of marketing - has resulted in an increase in the required volume of medical supplies for medicinal products. Given that there was no broader debate on the part of the members of the Committee and that, by the proposaler, based on legal logic, the question of the chairman of the Committee that the procedures initiated for granting marketing authorisation for a particular generic medicinal product under the current legislation could also be completed, according to the present legislation, so far as Article 15 of the basic law and Article 116a has been in force, and that no amendments have been tabled or drafted by the committee, the committee shall submit the following conclusions to the National Assembly: "The Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a proposal for a law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, the second addressing, in the text as proposed." Second conclusion: "In the event that no amendment is adopted to the text of the legislative proposal in the second reading, the Committee shall propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the same meeting, it shall proceed to the third reading of the draft law and adopt it in its entirety." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] That way, I can give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. They'll get it in the order they applied for it. First of all, my colleague Vnučec, on behalf of the youth party's parliamentary group. You have the floor, please, colleague grandchild. You will be followed by colleague Podobnik, on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. While my colleague Vnučec is coming for the microphone, I should like to inform you that they have joined us and have the powers of governments to participate in the debate, including state secretaries, service directors, advisers or state undersecretaries, who will assist in the decision-making process. Now I've given my word to my grandson and he's got it. Comrade Grandchild, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague! In the Young Slovenia Party, we oppose the bill. The law is bad for Slovenia, and today’s extraordinary session is unnecessary. Why the amendment of the law in the work relating to data exclusivity when the Republic of Slovenia has already closed the chapter on the free movement of goods in negotiations with the European Union and the exclusiveness of the data is an exclusive obligation resulting from the harmonisation of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the European Union, which has a deadline for implementation at the end of 2002, which has also been harmonised in the negotiation process. In the youth party, we are confident that our pharmaceutical industry will be able to adapt to new conditions, or the fact that it is already adapting. We hear reports of representatives moving production to the east. We are more concerned about the public finances after the adoption of the law in the health register. The medications will be irritable, and more will be on the negative list. We are, in particular, opposed to this law. In the Young Slovenia Party, we will not agree to the thesis that health is the privileges of the rich. The fact is that health services will be even more expensive, even more inaccessible. In the Young Slovenia Party, we strongly oppose such a division of citizens, and we also wonder what benefits Slovenia will have if it changes the drug law on medicines in work relating to data exclusivity, which mainly introduces an increase in the monopoly of the foreign pharmaceutical industry and in this regard increases public expenditure on medicines. At the same time, we are also interested in whether the Ministry of Health has a clear position on the introduction of additional protection of certain medicines, which prolong the monopolies of medicines and reduce the availability of medicines and treatments, and how the Ministry will implement them at home and in the international area. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are also convinced that there is no reason to fear that the United States will simply include us on the "watch" list 301, or we wonder whether our diplomatic representatives in the United States have used all diplomatic means to protect Slovenian national interests. In the youth party, we would look at the government proposal much differently if we saw that the means to cover the difference that will arise in the price of medicines were the result of this measure in the budget. But it's not like that. However, the way this law is adopted is a special story, today's extraordinary session. We believe that this law could be included in yesterday's debate on NATO, which took place in these same places, and is quite obviously linked to the bill we have on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much for presenting the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Kolga Podobnik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members, followed by a colleague of Peca on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group of Members. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State and experts! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will vote in favour or against when we receive answers to some of the open questions raised by this law. We are very sensitive to experts and other state secretaries who have recently come to the National Assembly, to this Chamber. However, we believe that the rules of procedure would allow for a different path: when professional questions are raised, complex professional questions should be discussed on the work body. The very performance of Mr Minister, who was good, has opened up a number of topics for controversy, is such that it simply indicates that a number of questions will need to be answered. Ministers, who are political figures, should normally perform in the National Assembly and in the Plenary Chamber. The Minister of Economy must not hide behind his secretary of state, he, she, Mrs Petrinova, should come here and answer our questions. Parliament, the government, the National Assembly, that's politics, and politics has professional support. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that the government has made a very awkward argument about the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The application, which was the second 15.1., also states that the College of the President of the National Assembly, at its meeting of 15.1., addressed the first proposal of the Government for the convening of an extraordinary meeting and called on the Government to reclassify the proposal in the request if it assesses that the reasons for the early adoption of that law have arisen. This was not decided by the college, but was decided by the president of the National Assembly. The College had a different opinion on this, as the President then decided, whose decision we are examining. We would specifically like to state a poor taste and a misapprehensive approach. With the reference to the extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly added its own oil to the fire, needlessly. Today I spoke to a very well-known expert, a professor at law school. I wondered what he was proposing, what solution to this complex issue. He said, "I won't talk to you about content. That's a professional question." He said, "But allow me my opinion of a man who knows the relationship between the legislative and executive branches of power and who respects Parliament's autonomy." It's strange, it's wrong, tactless, not wise, that you decided on a proposal and pressure, as it says, to put pressure on one of the countries, even though this country is the United States. This is not how parliamentary democracy works. The government should find other, more subtle, politically more articulate arguments if it had already decided to hold an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. A fellow member of the parliamentary group who listened to Radio Slovenia has just told me that a great intellectual property expert, Dr. Pretnar, who is now carrying out a very important task in Switzerland, at an institution dealing with these issues, has made it very clear: it is the pressure of a very influential lobby of American multinationals in the field of pharmaceuticals. And this very influential lobby, of course, has a very strong influence on American congressmen and senators. Dr. Pretnar didn't advise on this route as we do today. Dr. Pretnar, who has performed in the National Assembly in recent years and we have greatly appreciated his views, said that this is his personal position. So it's just about calling an extraordinary session. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we respect intellectual and industrial property and everything related to respect for patent legislation. We also respect the commitment to the four fundamental freedoms of the European Union. In our view, today the National Assembly will weigh two decisions. One is, as I have already mentioned, pressure, and we can say political pressure, which is legitimate, which is also economic pressure by one of the countries, and on the other hand will be a commitment that we have accepted as a country in international relations. When we decide which side the weighr decides on today, we will have to answer some questions. One of the very important issues is the economic question: What is the position of the pharmaceutical industry in Slovenia? According to his introduction, the Minister cited Mr Dragonje's position at the meeting of his mother's working body on 5 December last year, where Mr Dragonja said that the association of drug producers also wished to contribute to the harmonisation of Slovenia's legal regime in the field of medicines, including global standards, and that the issue of 116.a of Article is an integral part of this harmonisation. At the same performance, Mr Dragonja also said the following, and this was not quoted as saying: "We appreciate", so the association, "that it is primarily about the need and interests of the competing industry to confuse us further in our activities, and this is not only about interference in the market of Slovenia, but also about relatively very successful competition by the domestic pharmaceutical industry in the area of Central and Eastern Europe, including in the communities of independent countries, especially the leading, largest pharmaceutical companies around the world. This is also said to be an explicit component of the international competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industry." Mr Minister gave a very important position after his introduction, and this is the position if I correctly quoted you, Minister, that the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry does not currently have any generic medicine in registration. This position of yours is also very important for the decision of our Group of Members. Why? If this is your position - we would like to, we respect your opinion, but on the basis of Mr Dragonje's statement, which I will read, I would like to hear the position of the economy as well. So, if your position is true, then even when the law was not adopted or the law was passed by 31.12., or the non-admission, nothing would happen because there is no cure in the registration process. But I must quote Mr Draganje's debate at the working body meeting on 5 December, six weeks ago. Just six weeks ago, Mr Dragonja said: "As far as concrete enforcement is concerned, the question that you, Mr Brenčič, have mentioned is in what way or how claims are addressed which are in the stage of consideration at this moment." From this statement, I conclude that they were still at this stage on 5 December in the treatment of the marketing authorisation. I do not think that there should be any specific complications here, because I must say that at least the interpretation that we have read in the Rapporteur that the applications lodged before the law is in force are dealt with under the provisions of the presumption that the law is in force. Therefore, the applications submitted shall be completed in accordance with normal procedures by the granting of documents on the registration of medicinal products. Our question is, therefore, whether all the procedures for the registration of medicinal products have been completed between December 5th and today or is still in the process of any other registration. As regards the issue related to this current situation and the reactions of Slovenian pharmacists, we could quickly assess that the law has given time to prepare the pharmaceutical industry for the situation as it will be once this law has been adopted. If the National Assembly adopts the law in second reading today, so if no amendments are adopted in this hearing, there will be a potential possibility to adopt the law in third reading, we will reduce this adjustment time by more than ten months. Our question would be: What will be the economic damage to the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry if this time is cut short? The fact that we are shortening this time is not a commitment from the international treaties and the promises and commitments we have made. This is due to our decision to assess that if Slovenia were on the so-called "watch" list, the economic damage to Slovenian pharmacists would be greater for the rest of the economy. I would therefore like to ask a representative of the government for an answer, namely: Do you estimate that the current damage that the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry will suffer this year if we do not adopt the law today will be greater or uncomparable? The answer to this question is very important. I have before me on the Internet a number of documents on the so-called "watch" list, "watch country" and all other matters relating to one of the key reasons why the government has proposed an extraordinary meeting. I would like to ask the representative of the Government what the status, what the result is, is a concrete consequence for international economic and other relations if one of the countries is on such a document. Who's designing it? Whether it is a government element, an economic document, or a document of pharmaceutical, research and economic organisations in the United States, as set out in the introduction. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that although one of our fellow Members and colleagues could also tie this debate to a very sensitive issue of Slovenia's entry into NATO so that we do not discuss this issue today. It is true, however, that some representatives of the Slovenian economy also mentioned this possibility in their very sharp statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. He gets the word of a fellow Peca behind you. He will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, followed by his colleague Tsukati on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Please, Comrade Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u20	Your Honors are here! Today I realized that in the Slovenian government, i.e. in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, there are people who would be prepared to talk about it, sell it or give it to Austria and find good arguments about why it is good. This was roughly how the matter was presented, a novelty of the law presented by Minister Keber. I must say, I thought the opening speech of Minister Kebra was very strange. He was referring to things that were contradictory to himself. He spoke about matters in this way, that the Slovenian industry, which we are now mentioning, will be Krka and Lek, that should be satisfied with the legislation adopted. Then why is there a revolution on the part of those who produce Slovenian medicines? Because they do not understand Slovenian legislation because they do not understand one substantive article? It's probably not that. Let me point out here that in these two Slovenian companies there are more than 2,000 people employed with the seventh level of education or higher; this is not a misunderstanding of the legal matter and that the government is right and that it will be good for Slovenia in the long term, in order to maintain credibility. But credibility to whom? Who is the one who makes these demands for Slovenia? This is not the European Union. We've all come to this together and also Minister Keber. At the beginning of his speech, Minister Keber gave a graphic account of the history of this law and of this matter. It was mentioned that the basic law was adopted in 1999. Here. In 2000, our country, or this Parliament, adopted amendments and additions to the basic law by means of an implementing Article or a transitional period. Half a year later, the government of the Republic of Slovenia has put pressure on the various non-governmental and, God forbid, even the U.S. government, and I stress, the American institutions have changed their minds and say that we must destroy the deadline so that we cannot go on like this in Slovenia, that this is an inhumane, inhumane, even a barbaric gesture. Why would Slovenians encourage the Slovenian economy? That doesn't make any sense. But, gentlemen or Mr. Keber, let me remind you from this place that another country such as Barbara as Slovenia - I am using your thinking - has enacted this same protective legislation. Their deadline is four years! Today we are matrimonially destroying the date by 31.12. this year. Poland is four years old! That's terrible! Because of the talk of medicines, innovative and generic medicines, the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry is such that it is mainly concerned with small financial resources, and I will say gravely, by imitating or complementing and seeking cheaper opportunities for penetration or production of Slovenian medicines. So far, this trip has shown the success of these companies. We must be aware that today, at least in Slovenian work, and we are talking about this work, Krka and Lek are the strongest and best producers of these products in Eastern and Central Europe and soon, if this national assembly does not destroy them on your proposal, these companies will soon be the best in Western Europe. So for the first time, we have the opportunity to have companies that could be proud of the framework of Europe. You could say we're the best, even though we're small and even though we have such backlogs, public debts on a newborn and things like that. But no, obviously the Slovenian government and that part of the Slovenian Members who support this legal matter agree that Slovenia does not want to have successful companies. The approximate mirror story happened with the PCPs, with the Slovenian brewery, but I will follow the advice of those who said that we should avoid broader topics today, which are linked to existing matter. Let's go in one order. As you know, there is a provision in the Rules of Procedure that says that to the matrimonial mother herself, with whom Members and Members meet, give her an opinion also to the Secretariat. In the context of the expert services of my parliamentary group or of the Slovenian National Party, I have been consulted by the secretariat, which was presented for first reading, i.e. 8.5.2001, where the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs identifies and gives consideration and re-examines that the standard of this law may also be partly unconstitutional because it harms Slovenia in the field of economy. When we get an opinion on the same matter because it is the same law, in the second reading, dated 27.11., the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs stresses that it has satisfied itself with the written explanations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that suddenly everything is fine. It seems to me that the Secretariat is losing credibility by doing so. However, I can say that it is lost within the framework of the Slovenian National Party and will be the opinions and views of this service, which has already proved to be more than a government service, than the Secretariat of the National Assembly, which should launch and enrich Members with its knowledge, copies the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's simple, if not the other, duplicity of the secretariat. However, since some people seem to like to be double - minded, it is also their right to do so. We have already said that the European Union does not oppose our existing legislation. She didn't invite us to change that. She invited us for a million other things, some justified, some groundless. We have changed some or I apologize, and this national assembly has changed everything that Europe has asked it to do. Some things he's changed for a reason, some he hasn't. But they did not even invite us for the document or for this law, but because a group is far across the Atlantic, Slovenia decided to destroy two Slovenian giant companies that succeed in a foreign market that has primate in this area, Slovenia decided to destroy them. Even more, these American institutions, which have called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take the form of NATO or any other institution, have seen that it is easier to destroy the Slovenian company through the Slovenian government than to try to destroy it on the market system. No, they chose the easy way. The Slovenian Government is the ideal partner for the destruction of economic operators in their own country. It's more than sad to us personally. In fact, the power in this country is vested in those who now have it, I hope that they will no longer have it. And there's one of the most important matters about the matter of matter we're talking about. Nor did the Minister of Finance mention it, which is the financial consequences. What will the adoption of this law result in in the health treasury? The answer will be nothing if we stick to the lie that was told by the Minister of Health. This is that the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry does not have any new medicines this year that would try to bring them to life or to live through the existing law. There are seven of these medications in line. The minister said no. What will this deficit, we are talking about truly large amounts, mean for the health treasury?Oh, my God! If we don't care about the medical bills and say so, it's money that the government actually has in hand, and it's spending it in one way or another, we don't have any influence on it, we don't care about the financial effect that will be shown in the price of the drugs. The cost of medicines will be somewhat higher than the 10% increase in medicines. I know I'm not going to find an accomplice in the government or a negative interlocutor to deny it. Even from Lek and Krka, we are reminded that the basic or secondary effects of today's legislation that we are adopting - I hope we will not adopt it - will not be visible until two years later. Then there will be no more of the existing people, I hope. And it's a very short case. Mr. Secretary, you may or may not take it personally. I think you're a very bad minister. I think that the Minister from the health field should strive to make drugs more accessible to people, both at cost and at quality, so that they are overgrown. Not that the Minister of Health is watching whether or not he will be liked or liked by the various American institutions at the expense of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, according to NATO. Of course, we will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party. However, we have proposed an amendment which, if adopted, would allow us to return to the existing situation. This is the situation that is still in effect at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Peca, for presenting the views of the SNS Group. The colleague, Dr. Tsukjat, will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members and will be given the floor of his colleague Ptrč. Please, you have the floor, Dr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Respectable. Certainly it is a law that is not as health-related as it is primarily an intervention in the question of the economy and so-called, I will use that kind of diluting formula, of national interest. The financial consequences will certainly be such and 'other'. In the material and in the explanations we read, I quote: "We have found that the introduction of such a provision would not outweigh the benefit of any damage." Next. "It is difficult to predict the possible financial consequences," or, "the reasons for keeping 116.a. no longer outweigh the benefits of Slovenia's entry into the European Union." These are all some flat-rate grades. However, I would like and want some support, some arguments for such general assessments. Something Mr Minister has tried to contribute to the argument of these assessments, but not enough. This is what a person would expect in a solidly prepared material that is not solidly prepared. This is the first dilemma we have here. Somehow the most convincing threat is the watch list. We don't even know what it means to be on this list. In any event, they would expect the financial consequences identified for and against or in case of adoption or in case of rejection of the law, as is appropriate for each law. The second thing we are concerned about in this law is that in fact, we are putting the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry in new operating conditions overnight. Real new conditions. I think it's kind of unfair, in a way it needs a specific explanation again, I'd say, to calculate the financial implications. We also do not know how much the adoption of this law or the abolition of this date will mean for the procedures already in place for the registration of Slovenian medicinal products. What will this mean in the coming years for our medicines and for the entry of foreign medicines into our market? What will this finally mean in the next short term for the competitiveness of our medicines? We do not have the financial consequences of the demonstrated, argued that this would allow us to make a clear decision. With or to all of this we cannot really discuss much and we do not now have a clear position. We will decide when we vote after we have listened to all the arguments for and against until the end, and we will also try to obtain from the government's representatives' replies the information we urgently need to make an objective decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Cuckoo. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. My list of registered representatives of the parliamentary groups is also the last of them. Comrade Run, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u24	Mr. Minister, Dr. Keber, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats has prepared a text of explanations, and so far the presence of representatives of the Government has not convinced the urgency and justification of the adoption of the law in the proposed content following the proposed procedure, and in particular not with the proposed argument. Mr Minister asked himself where the attention to the law, which in fact has only two articles and which makes relatively small changes, he thought. I would have allowed myself to answer that we have given great attention to the adoption of this law in politics, that this was caused by the government by the requirement that the law should be dealt with at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, even though colleagues from the leaders of the parliamentary groups were still in December - Mr Anderlič was this - warned and asked whether it was really necessary to give this law to the extraordinary meeting in December or not. There was no such requirement at the time. This request was made on 15 January, which is 15 days after the new year 2002 had already expired, on the ground that this should be done because the so-called "watch" list in the US Congress would eventually be published 25. If ten days before this publication, our diplomacy and our government didn't know, then that's probably not a good feature. This is also one of the reasons why the public has certainly been so attentive to the treatment itself. Another time. She became observant because of the argument. Instead of bringing together the necessary arguments - later on - what seems most important to me on behalf of our parliamentary group - before the National Assembly at a time which is in one way or another sensitive to many major topics, we have said or proposed or explained the need to adopt this law because of the demands of one of the countries, due to the demands of the United States. Some texts have also been written because of pressures and similar things. In this way, the strong arguments for the decision-making of the National Assembly, neither on the procedure nor on the content of the Government, in my opinion, are proposed. This certainly led to unnecessary, perhaps overly public interest in the matter. What was the public argument about this? I do not think that the government has tried or had no opportunity so far, but we have not been able to reach out to the public even to the facts that Dr. Keber has told us today, at least to the Members and Members. However, I hope that he will say more about specific issues. So far the impression has been allowed that we are doing this under pressure to do this without the need, to mean the new kneeling of Slovenia "vis-a-vis" abroad, so that we will affect Slovenian industry, pharmaceutical industry or any other. We should not allow such serious questions at such a time to be made in public if they are not real. And Dr. Keber today said he wasn't real. So today, as a group of Members of the Joint List, we will try to do everything possible to ensure that this meeting of the National Assembly, if necessary, and perhaps also by postponement of the decision and re-debate on the labour force, where it is possible that representatives of the interested economy and others may also come forward, find out the facts that are relevant to the decision-making process. Thirdly, let me say that today Mr Keber has made an effort in his introduction. But I don't think he was at two points, I'd say, accurate enough, and he didn't do us any good in making decisions. One of these was when he said that we had actually avoided making decisions for a year and a half. I think that such a definition was not wise because, after all, if we did, Mr Keber also knows that, under the terms of reference, we have escaped on the proposal of the government and on the basis of the decision of this national assembly. Here, in the spring of 2000, a decision was taken to put the deadline for the new condition of the pharmaceutical industry into effect only at the end of 2002. And secondly, it is an urgent respect for the rule of law. In fact, this moment of legal order of the State of Slovenia provides special conditions for the pharmaceutical industry, we can agree that in the world it is not applicable, but still the conditions in force until the end of 2002. And this is the Slovenian legal order. We will change it now; perhaps this is necessary, we can talk about it, but it is not possible to say that we must do so in order to respect the rule of law. As far as our questions or our wishes are concerned. We would like to, Dr. Keber, if it is possible that you, even any of the representatives of the government who have these powers, can only unquestionably give an answer to some very important questions for us. Firstly, whether and what would be the specific consequences for the Slovenian industry in the case of non-admission of the law by placing it on the "watch" list. To answer the question of what Slovenian diplomacy was doing, to find out by 15 January that the classification by 25.1. will eventually take place in the US Congress and that we must now take these decisions at an extraordinary meeting and quickly. To give more precise estimates of what the possible decision would mean in 2000 and in the following years for the Slovenian health treasury. Mr Keber said that we will not always be under the same conditions as we are today, and that we will not always be able to buy domestic generic medicines, because we will have to implement the principles that the established international community has soon. However, for some time they could still be in such a situation, and perhaps the consequences on health care would not be small or large, since the assessment of 10 to 15% of the price difference also has a specific number. I'd rather say it myself if Dr. Keber said it. But this number goes into billions. It has to be said that it is billions, although only in one year, because in the coming years this difference might not be so much. The last thing I would ask is, on my part, a category statement by Dr Kebra, and by speaking categorical, I mean not in a bad way, but a clear statement that the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry cannot, does not, does not intend to make applications for new generic products by the end of this year. I have before me the evening of today, in which, among other things, Mr Method Dragonje, Director of Lek's statements, the following is written: "If changes are adopted, the development and arrival of seven new generic medicines in Lek, which are intended for wide use, will be compromised." I can't read it any different than it's supposed to be this year. If it is otherwise written, or if it is otherwise stated, then it is incorrect. Anyone who talks about the law today, and this is also true for Mr Draganjo, must know that if the law is not changed, but the end of this year will be the deadline within which generic medicines can be reported. It is said that it can only be understood that it is thought by the end of this year. This statement is, I'd say, worth considering. The statement given in Finance is, I would say, by Mr Kovacic, a little less, I would say precise and categorical, and yet it is. He says, "Most of the drugs are in Krk," according to Mr Kovacic, "have already registered". This "most" can be understood that there may be some left. That is why I think, Mr Minister, your claim is such that I would ask you to unquestionably confirm it before this national assembly, or to find out in another way, because for us in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, this is, of course, the most important issue. The first is to finally tell the public what the facts are, because they have now presented themselves many times differently. Secondly, if we find that no medicine can be taken in the next nine months - since it usually goes on for nine months as a rule, not anymore, because the law will be in force in the 1960s and until it is adopted and the suspension veto and so on - it will generally enter into force sometime in late March, otherwise, if it does not change, a new regime for the application of generic medicines will enter into force at the end of this year - that in these nine months there are no conditions and the possibility of applying one, two, three, no new medicine, either from Lek or Krka, which could otherwise take place on domestic and international markets where Lek and Krka perform, operate and produce their effects. We are all aware that this is the most important question, from whether we are going to be at this meeting today, we would like to do so, because we need to decide, we have a concrete proposal, if not today, and if the opinion is that we should get something else and also, at the new meeting of the parent working body, the answers given will ultimately depend on our definition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Mr Kebrič will present the views of the DeSUS Group and his fellow Member Bernik of the New Slovenia Group. First, my friend Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Mr. Secretary and representatives of the government. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, in the parliamentary group, we were surprised to receive a call for an extraordinary meeting this afternoon. We had certain obligations for Members of the home labour force, as well as other arrangements that we had planned and had to implement. When we have received this proposal, it is true, Mr Minister, that this amendment of the law has only two articles, and each of these two has only one and a half lines. If we were to look at the amount of text, then there shouldn't be a problem at all. However, when we look at the substance, the content, and what we change, even the 116.a article is not as extensive as it is, but the question is asked quickly, as it is called, we have received or obtained certain materials, refreshed the memory a little bit, looked at how the discussion in the parent’s working body was going on, read a few articles from today’s newspaper, and came to the following conclusions. In our parliamentary group, we prepare ourselves thoroughly for each proposal for the law and provide certain expert opinions, because we believe that laws are important in a number of aspects. I will list some of them here, and it is not at all important in this case the order: that this is a matter of national interest, that there are questions of national interest, that there is a question of public interest, that there are issues of economic interest, individual producers or other stakeholders. In our parliamentary group, we then set up a hierarchy of areas according to our client's programme, but it has a certain hierarchy, and then we evaluate proposals according to these criteria. True, on the other hand, when we speak, let us respect the legal order so that others will respect it. This respect for the rule of law comes on many occasions, on the one hand, and on the other hand has certain consequences. It's not just taking what's useful to you or what's best for you at the moment, but you need to rent something that might not be most pleasant. We believe that if, as it is proposed that the law enters into force in the 1960s, I do not want to repeat the arguments, questions and other things that the Pre-Priests have already said, because our particular issues are either the same or very similar, this would simply be delaying or exceeding that time. We want specific answers to the questions. After these answers, we will decide how to vote. At least this is how we agreed quickly in our Group that our decision will probably be such that, in our own conscience, after we assess certain arguments, their weight, we will then decide. Thank you for your word and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u28	Madam President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Nor does New Slovenia like that we are coming to an extraordinary meeting on such an important matter, and it seems that it has not done so. A purely sound mind says that under the pressure of one third it is not good to accept various amendments to the law and so on, and therefore it is not necessary for a person to be a lawyer. There's been a lot of misinformation in the activity. Those who say that it would be necessary to explain this are right, for the public is completely confused about the purpose of this law and why we accept it. First, I'd like to say a few words about the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry. The Slovenian pharmaceutical industry is considered a tomato horse and in fact our pharmaceutical industry is extremely good. I am not a pharmacist, but I know this industry relatively well, and I think our pharmaceutical industry has tremendous potential, research, marketing and so on. However, for a long time this industry lived under a mortgage of the old Yugoslavia, which did not respect, as regards the medicines, the intellectual property patent, required that the licensee of the Yugoslav industry should also give his name to the medicine and so on. This is said to have been quite a legal mess back then. This legal mess continued after our independence. Our pharmaceutical industry mainly produced generic products. They're two kinds. One is before the loss of intellectual property or before the end of the patent and the other after the end of the patent. With regard to the second category, there are no particularly major conflicts, although they are, but the first conflict is always as regards generic products in the case of medicines still under patent protection. Of course, the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry concentrated mainly in Eastern Europe, in the former Soviet Union and similar, where it kept large markets. That's very commendable. However, one would say that any businessman or president of a pharmaceutical company, including Slovenian companies, should keep looking. This was already written on the wall to end it once. Our industry, as capable, good and so forth, refused to adapt and waited until the last one to see something happen. Two things have happened, as some have said. On 10 November 1999, this National Assembly voted to end the registration period for generic products at the end of 2000. Later, under pressure, whatever they were, this was prolonged, and now we are amending this article of the law again. One would say that businessmen who do not anticipate what will happen in the future, and any businessman should know that respect for intellectual property, as well as information, classified information, will begin to prepare for this. The method is more, but in our case, the Slovenian case did not happen. I don't think this is what our industry has done to itself, not to shareholders, not to employees of any kind. If this story ends with generic products, then the matter will be quite serious as far as the financial consequences are concerned. Okay, now we're talking about who did this. Rumor has it that America did it and stuff. This is probably true that it is true to come to list 301, that this was caused by America or the American pharmaceutical industry, but at the same time it would have done the same in some way to the European Union and to the pharmaceutical industry of Europe. But why didn't they do it? Because we went to negotiate. And thank God it worked out, so we're two years old. And no one in America predicted it, I'm surprised, because it's already been said where our government has been all this time. Whoever lived in America heard about this problem; anyone who knows little about industry and how big countries function should know all this. Now we have an extraordinary session. Why? Where was the government? And we in New Slovenia will wait for this answer - what was done? Has anyone spoken to the American ambassador here in Slovenia? Has anyone spoken to the previous ambassador, who was extremely kind, been very helpful and so on? What did she do? She was only in Slovenia, and she did nothing. Okay, and this ambassador, who we immediately started attacking in advance, because he said, "Well, I'm here, I'm going to represent Slovenia to sell American products." Yeah, is there something wrong with that? If our ambassador doesn't say that, he's an idiot. Good. I reckon we're the only ones in this. See, a lot of demagogies have been said before about the Slovenian government destroying Slovenian companies, pharmaceutical companies and the like. I agree. This government or the former has caused the collapse of many small businesses and also some large ones. In order for the Slovenian government to launch on the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry, this is absolutely no proof. On the other hand, it is true that the pharmaceutical industry did not do any service if it did not negotiate with the United States on this. And I can see when this problem was in Argentina, Brazil, and elsewhere, they had been negotiating exactly the same problems for a long time. The bigger the country, the more resistance it has, the longer the negotiations go. We could have done that, but it didn't. Why - I don't understand that. Now I would like to mention what is common in the pharmaceutical industry. Look, the pharmaceutical industry around the world is "sui generis." It requires a lot of capital, is profitable and, of course, likes to sell the product at the highest prices. But these are the methods that governments have already invented, and I hope that our Slovenian government will also figure out how to reduce the medicines that come in. The Slovenian pharmaceutical industry is the same as the rest of the world, only that it may have less money. But he's got money. He's got muscles. That's also true in this case. But it seems strange to me that in spite of all of this, our industry is not, they say, now, there will be no product in 2002. Why not? Why not, I wonder. They had the chance to register things, but they didn't. Whether it's because they didn't have the right component or because the pressure is going to be higher - that's what we have to ask ourselves. Let me mention this. When a proposal was made on 10 November 1999 to stop any extension and similar at the end of December 2000. I have here a list of those who voted for this change. And it's very interesting. Those of you who are still here today have voted in favour of this proposal almost after the majority. The pressure came later, but it turned. Today, I will also be interested to know who will vote in favour and who will vote against it. Each one of you can look at this list and then look in his own mirror. To finish this story, let me say it. Each country must respect the rule of law. Part of the legal order is the protection of intellectual property, the protection of data for medicinal products, registered medicines, the registration of a medicinal product and so on. We have to accept this. Even the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry has known this for a long time, it is nothing new. Maybe it's for the audience, but for those who survive in this thing, it's an old thing. What do you do? We expect the government to give us information on how it has acted in the past year in the face of the fact that something will have to be done. Then we'll decide what we vote for. I personally, personally, not on behalf of the parliamentary group, think this way: the rule of law must be respected if we see that there have been a lot of games, political and industrial, then without all the "scruples" I will vote for it - and this does not bind my fellow Member. Thank you so much for listening to me. I would like to take this seriously and also to see the government do something to help the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry. There's a lot of ways to pull this off. I will leave the imagination of our government representatives to find these ways. I think that representatives of the pharmaceutical industry should also be so on their feet to say what they would like and then agree to, by legal standards, help some industry. It's not always easy, but I'm sure you can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. We are now moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. The bill has two articles. In the debate, I apologize for Article 1 and the amendment to this Article, of which Article 2 is proposed. [[...]] I'm putting Article 1 into the debate. They applied for the debate first in the following order, so I give the floor first to Mr Barovic. Here you go. Here you are, Mr Vizjak, Mr Barovic, I apologize. The procedural proposal has priority. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much. From the representations of representatives of the Group, it is more obvious that Members to continue this debate and, of course, to continue the debate on the amendments and, of course, to decide, we need answers to the questions raised, which were very large and were not only in the field of health, but also in the area of the economy and the field of international affairs. Therefore, I ask the President that the representatives of the government first get the word in terms of the answers to the questions raised and, of course, then we move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. There are two choices here. Because I have several other Members before me who I am confident will open up some questions and also take into account the practice that we have had so far, that Members will, of course, open up dilemmas, reflections and then the government representatives will answer these questions. There are five other Members here, and I think it is appropriate that we give them the floor first, and then to the representative of the government. Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please, to the speaker, who I give him my word, I am obliged at the same time to ensure peace in the Chamber, so please ensure peace. Dear Members, I may be too quiet, Mr Barovic has the right to debate in peace, but this moment is not guaranteed. I'm asking very nicely for silence. Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u32	On the TV screen, I saw on one of the news shows the title, "Why the rush?".. I listened attentively to the conversation, watched all the devices that television uses, saw one article, article 1, delete article 116.a. After careful, attentive listening, I understood, in fact, I only understood that I didn’t understand anything. I justify this, because I have heard an expert explanation that medicines will be more expensive first if, of course, the amendment of the law is adopted and then they will be cheaper. Then I heard he'd treat less first, then there'd be more. The third thing I heard in the same breath is that the domestic pharmaceutical industry will be a little bit worse first, and in the long run it will be better. And I asked a few questions with a desire, a simple, innocent question to get simple answers. Whether this will allow patients in Slovenia to choose more medicines, medicines of better quality, more effective medicines, cheaper medicines and more accessible medicines, or not knowing what is right now. We've heard the answer, and I'm going to say it myself: Second question. Whether the law, if adopted, will also enable the domestic pharmaceutical industry to do better and faster research, the wider market in Europe and around the world, and equalise the domestic pharmaceutical industry with the global pharmaceutical industry, including the American industry. The answer is no. The third, completely simple, simple, innocent question, we are accustomed to it in Parliament and on committees. Is such a sudden rush possible as a result of the European Union's already used pressure for faster integration? And here's the answer no. Fourth, very serious question: Will Slovenia violate international law if the adoption of the amendment of this law is followed by 31 December 2002? And here's the answer no. So, in all things, and in particular in Article 1, and in voting on such a way of working, I stress this way of working and inventing six or four times, including on my part, not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. Comrade Jelinčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you all. This extraordinary meeting was convened at the request of the United States Congress or at the request of the US Embassy in Ljubljana. I also wondered which minister would speak to us at this meeting and, as I saw it, spoke to us from the American Minister of Health, of course in the Slovenian language. At the very least, it sounded like his justification and defending American positions to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia, to the detriment of the pharmaceutical industry, to the detriment of Slovenian patients, in short, to the detriment of all citizens and citizens. The Minister was not disturbed. He was not disturbed by the complex arguments he cited. He was not disturbed by even some of the lies he was quietly spending around here. And if anyone said to quote one lie, let's go to what Mr. Minister said about the pharmaceutical industry. He said the pharmaceutical industry was being negotiated and negotiated. He said that representatives of the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry were not opposed to the adoption of this law. Perhaps it would be good for me to refresh the Minister's memory with the words spoken by Mr Dragonja Methods, President of Lek's Administration, and Lek, Mr Minister, is a Slovenian pharmaceutical company, for the time being. It says that "proposed amendments to the drug and medical devices law affect the field of data exclusiveness, which, following these amendments to the law, is to be implemented within shorter periods than were established in the accession negotiations" - in the accession negotiations! So the deadlines were agreed and negotiated, and this deadline was 31.12. Europe has agreed. Next: "After our assessment, it is mainly the pressure of the so-called competitive industry, which wants to neutralize the very successful performance of both Slovenian pharmaceutical companies, Lek and Krka, in Central and Eastern Europe through the changes in the legal environment in which we operate. Therefore, we cannot have a positive view of the proposed changes. We believe they are harmful to us in the long term." I do not know when Mr Draganja has spoken to Mr Draganja that Mr Draganja has assured him that the matter is in order and that he agrees with it. Mr Dragonja continued to say that these changes in particular mean a reduction in competitiveness and a narrowing of the possibility of entering individual markets, in particular with some newer products. And even when the Minister said that no cure would be affected, I will quote Mr Draganje's statement: "The restrictions on the predicted rapid changes will be felt in the seven preparations" and so on. Seven preparations means a huge amount of money, Mr. Minister, and if you and Mr. Drnovsko are willing to join and jump into NATO and you are prepared to eat up everything and sell the Slovenian industry, whatever, this is your business. However, don't involve the Slovenian Parliament here, but above all don't do this to the detriment of Slovenian citizens and citizens. And if Mr Minister would like to say that these are only the words of Director Lek, I will tell him what Mr Milos Kovacic said, who leads Krka. He says that "without generic medicines, people would be without drugs, because just for the original nowhere, or in the developed countries, simply not enough money and various epidemics around the world would be able to cure any more." Kosher's tillhouse would be without generic drugs even in far greater troubles than it is, or it would collapse. Slovenia imports an unreasonable number of medicines according to two strong domestic pharmaceutical factories. Last year, for 330 million marks, this sum would have jumped to 500 million mark or 250 million euro for the same effect without a generation. Mr Kovacic says that the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry is a thorn in the fifth American multinationals, which is true. After all, Krka and Lek are the two most successful companies on the Russian market. The Russian market has 150 million consumers. Of course, the first American multinational is on the Russian market only in 40th place, and I would certainly want and do everything to achieve a better, perhaps first place, instead of the Lek and Krka you think, Mr. Minister, to destroy. In your report or in your request for the early consideration of the draft law on medicines and medical devices in the National Assembly of 12.11., Mr Minister, you wrote: "Because of the current regulation, the international pharmaceutical industry - and beyond - has been disturbed by the international pharmaceutical industry - mainly through diplomatic and political structures, demanded a change of law and the early introduction of data exclusivity" etc. Being upset by the international pharmaceutical industry is simply a lie, Mr. Minister. 'Cause I'm gonna tell you again what Mr. Kovacich says about this. He said, "If this amendment were accepted, we could stop working because the ban would cover all our main products, which we have already exported more than 80%, and we are not violating any patents anywhere. For obvious reasons, Americans are exaggerating that we don't respect intellectual property. That's not true. We respect all the rules in force. Why aren't we being pressured by multinationals, producers of original drugs from Europe?" Here, Mr. Minister, your words about who is who demands change are being broken. With your threat of being placed on the "watch" list 301, I ask you, Minister, whether or not you think and think that the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia is based on Slovenian rules, on Slovenian decisions, not on decisions made by an office in the United States. Should this somehow remind a man of the ITT company that triggered a coup d'état and a change of government in Chile? Are we that far? According to the economic indicators, we are already worse off than in Argentina. Can we expect in a short time any impact and removal of inadequate and unfavourable political opponents - perhaps? The fact is, if we accept it, the drugs will be about 15% more expensive. Who in Slovenia will be able to afford this, in health care, which is actually on the dog in our country? Everything has to be paid, the species are not cut short, and the medicine will be even more expensive. That's what they say. The healthy will be rich and the poor will die. In the Slovenian National Party, we are not for this separation of the Slovenian population to those with money and God like and to all others. Thank you so much for sharing! It is said - I say so, although I am increasingly doubting this - democracy is in Slovenia. Undoubtedly, this requirement of the U.S., could be said by the armed forces, for in the back is the entry into the NATO condition or one of the conditions that they will promise us that we may be accepted into the NATO organization in the fall. Because what makes me think that? The point I have in mind is that Poland, which is already in NATO, has a four-year delay period. Slovenia, which is not yet in NATO, must quickly delete it, change it, forget about its pharmaceutical industry, leave its market to the Americans and remain silent. We could call it Kebrow and Drnovszk's trip. However, if this is their trip, let them trip it alone, not on the backs of Slovenian citizens and citizens. There's something else I'd like to say about saving American honesty. One interesting example from these times when there was such a big alarm in America because of the risk of anthrax. The United States of America did not have an appropriate antibiotic that would actually help in this matter. And this antibiotic is made by the Swiss company Ciba. And the Americans, of course, who look through the dollar, demanded a reduction in the price of this antibiotic, which of course Ciba did not agree to. And the Americans said, "Okay, nothing. We'll go alone and make a generic version." That's what they say, Americans, because they're strong and big, are allowed everything. Nothing is allowed to the Slovenians, who are "slovencial" to a great extent. Or like the Latins said, "Quod the grace of Jovi, non-hypothet bovi." What is threatening is what it suggests - I will not say all the Slovenian government, because I have spoken to some ministers from your government, Mr Minister, and they have become disdainful of the proposal of this law. However, I can certainly say that the proposal that Mr Keber and Mr Drnovšek made in the Slovenian national side will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. There's only one explanation for Mr. Jelinčič. He said that this meeting was a reference to the initiative of the US Embassy. Sam knows that's not true. It was invoked at the request of the Slovenian government. Let me say that we talked first about the proposal - first of all the government's proposal to have an extraordinary session - at the college on Tuesday. There were different views whether we should agree to the government's proposal or not, so I decided then to stop this decision and once again ask the government to examine its decision and if it reclassifies it to the request, I will also convene this meeting. Thus, at the request of the Government, in accordance with Article 51, I also convened a meeting for today. By voting, the National Assembly confirmed the agenda and decided that I was doing the right thing, but then, of course, it will give its opinion on the law itself. My friend Yuri wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. I have been in doubt before the start of the debate itself, and after all my colleagues have come together on behalf of the parliamentary groups or on behalf of myself, of course, I am still in greater doubt; because I still have the pressure to argue that this bill or amendment of the law is going on. It is wrong to refer to the European Union. This has already been discovered by many, said - of course again I stress. We have resolved this matter with the European Union so that we have completed the chapter on the free movement of goods, from this title we have also obtained this tolerance and no explicit requirement for us to remove this deadline. Here we have found that what was said last December on the working body is no longer true today, because those actors who agreed at the time - you yourself have found, Mr Minister, in your introduction - are making different statements today. And it is clear to everyone that something does not work: that some damage will be done here - one or the other - and that it is necessary to sit and weigh the pluses and the minuses once again. A certain vote for the law means one particular scenario, a non-voting of the law means another scenario, which also has very serious consequences. My predecessors warned that it would be good to have an accurate calculation or at least an approximate calculation of these consequences on our pharmaceutical industry and on the rest of the industry, if they were, of course, included in this list of observing countries. And perhaps the consequences - even though colleague Podobnik has already called for us not to do so - of the consequences of our great project entering NATO. Because, of course, we can increase the chance that we are invited, on the other hand, I do not know whether we will increase our public's "vis-á-vis" of this entry, given that, whatever the case, we are adopting a law that is the result of some pressures and threats to sanctions by the United States. It would be, of course, to know what these sanctions may be, which are flying on us and how we can avoid them. Therefore - so far, there have been no answers to all the many questions raised by the leaders of the parliamentary groups and by individual fellow Members - all these questions, all these dilemmas, a little more precise answers, before we even decide on the voting, the articles and the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u37	Comrade Yuri, during your speech, the minister, Dr. Keber, asked for the floor. I'd like to say they're registered colleagues of mags. Vizjak, Kelemina and Jerovšek. The minister asked for a word, he can get it in order, unless colleagues agree to explain some of the questions that were before. Okay. A colleague of mags. Vizjak, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I wouldn't repeat what was already said. However, I would like to draw attention to one of the dilemmas that I am facing, mainly because of this contradiction of statements: on the one hand, the representatives of the government or the Minister of Health, on the other hand, the two key men of the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry. And this contradiction of these statements, the opposition, completely contradictory statements, suggest that the Slovenian government, in preparing this law - and, of course, obviously in the solution - did not take into account and cooperate with the Slovenian economy, with the key part of the Slovenian economy, to which the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry undoubtedly belongs. I cannot explain this differently because, on the one hand, the minister says that the matter has been harmonised, on the other hand, we are reading today from newspapers such a very harsh statement by the leading two men; it shows that the government is not doing its job, the government is not going against it, and, of course, there is no need for this adjustment, both to the accession of the European Community and, of course, to NATO, to the vital needs of the Slovenian economy. I think it's dangerous or it's a game. This is one big and crucial question for me. I believe that such statements made by the two leading men of pharmaceutical companies today will also have very significant consequences on the capital market for the shares of these two companies. I think these are the consequences that I would also like to hear from government representatives, what this means and what this could mean for the Slovenian capital market. For we see that the predictions are pessimistic, they are bad, and this will certainly affect the exchange rates. And here I would like a comment by government representatives on what and how they see this aspect of the adoption of this legislation. Of course, at the end of the day, I would like to draw attention to something else that I will wait for the replies of the government's competent representatives and perhaps propose a procedural proposal later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u39	Thanks, buddy mag. A visor. Comrade Kelemin, behind you, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! First of all, I might comment on the procedure itself. In fact, if I am not mistaken, we are in the process of explaining the amendment to Article 2, and in such a case it would be right for the applicant to explain his proposal first, to put an opinion on this proposal also to the secretariat, the government and so on, and then perhaps to the Members. I don't know, it didn't happen, but good, anyway. I'm going to discuss this amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u41	Article 1 is under consideration, Comrade Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u42	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u43	Article 1 is read, paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u44	As I recall, you were saying - it was said that we were only discussing the amendment. I'll take a look at the magnetogram back. I'll check it out. If I'm wrong, I'm sorry, but I think it's a lot. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u45	Do you still want the word to Article 1?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u46	Still, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u47	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u48	Still, I want a word, anyway. In general, I would say that, as has already been said, I am myself in a great dilemma. In fact, I think that we really need to get answers to questions about what will happen if, by chance, the statements made today by representatives of the parliamentary groups lead to the lack of support for this proposal. I haven't actually decided how I'm going to vote yet, because I didn't get any answers. In fact, it is imperative to answer all these questions raised by various representatives of the parliamentary groups, namely, what to say about all these questions, or what information we have received from our intelligence services, if you will, our diplomacy, what the Foreign Minister is saying in all of this, that he should be here, that is, the Foreign Minister has many different views on these issues, and it would be right to define that. It is also an extremely important political issue, as we see today; it is not only an economic manoeuvre or a health issue, but an extremely important political issue. And it would be right for the Prime Minister to define himself and say what that position is and why we need to adopt this proposal. I want to actually hear their opinions. Otherwise, I will have to make my decision after what I hear here; I hope this happens. As an opposition Member, I am also in a great dilemma, i.e. you have succeeded - certainly not just in this way, but with a certain purpose, certainly in some way - extremely strongly manipulated by the Slovenian public. And now, if this majority of the Slovenian public is turned against the adoption of this law, as an opposition member before the upcoming elections, I cannot allow myself to vote against the public opinion now. So I'm here under a lot of pressure. Much has also been said about Mr Draganj, who, as we have heard today, has made very different and contradictory statements at some different times in a longer period, both by the Minister, as well as by Mr Podobnik, as well as by other debaters. Now, why did he talk like that, he knows. I'm sure there's some background, but I'm just gonna say that this contradiction doesn't surprise me that much and I won't take it into account. In fact, last night on the commission of inquiry, I said only one sentence, convinced myself that in one hour, not in some extended period, he was talking about the same thing completely contradictory. So I think that the statements - those you have cited - Mr Dragonje cannot be credible and I cannot really take them into account in this debate. It is also true that Mr Dragonja is a member of the LDS and it would be right for us to have a common position in this case, a joint opinion and this should have been harmonised long ago, without bringing the Slovenian public into such a dilemma and in such uncertainty on all these issues, and that you have manipulated this issue. This should not be the case, this should not have happened by the LDS’s largest government party. So I would just like you to invite these representatives to the National Assembly, although they may indeed be their deputies here, but they are only the most responsible persons who could answer these questions and also confirm their vision, their knowledge of this situation and the solution to this extremely difficult political issue and, of course, have also highlighted their personality, their integrity in case this law might even fall in the National Assembly today. I would ask that these personalities be invited to the National Assembly and that they try to answer all these important questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Mr Jerovšek and Mr Minister have the floor. Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Further discussion is held, a better parliamentary body is divided here in weighing the economic and political effects of amending this law and protecting intellectual property: it is essentially a Slovenian economy and a Slovenian policy. Although the law is extremely short, in this case there can be fatal political issues regarding Slovenian development, association with integration and so on. However, I am surprised and afraid that the government has not seriously sat down and held an in-depth debate on this matter. Because in this case, I would expect the ministers concerned, in addition to the Minister of Health, to have a fatal touch with their name and reputation and their authority to persuade at least government parties. I observe the judicial dismemberment of government parties, and I wonder whether this is the reason why they are in doubt about the economic effects, or whether the parties whose representatives were until recently strongly opposed to joining NATO have found a way to indirectly or indirectly avoid joining NATO. That's easy. But especially now this is about a number of things and they are complex. I would like an answer to how these things will affect or interact with these issues concerning these medicines; it is said that this part of the chemistry of medicines, production, development of medicines, in some way of this patent protection, which also spreads this data exclusivity: whether this actually applies only to medicinal products, it is said, chemical compounds that are medicinally effective, or, consequently, sometimes to other chemical products, other chemical compounds. In fact, years ago, as far as I knew this patent protection or protection of intellectual property, I see that much has changed in the world, that only the production process of a chemical compound has been protected. Today, the chemical compound is obviously protected in the field of drugs. If this spreads or spreads to all chemistry, it can, of course, have catastrophic consequences that our industry and chemistry should think about. Look. Slovenian chemistry was of all scientific and technical knowledge, I think, of the knowledge that it has made most in the field of development. As a result, no major chemical company or more significant company failed at the loss of Yugoslav markets. They were -- chemistry had its own products, its own technologies, and it also exported them, technologies, but of course the chemists were working in a way that they weren't crying out for global development, but what we now call a generic product, that they went to patent literature, found that a product had been developed and found their own process, and thus avoided patent protection. That is why I would like to know whether there is already a similar legislation in other areas: if this has already been negotiated, what are the deadlines for these transitional periods, how other countries in Europe are in this area. I don't have the exact data. And, of course, I'm very much afraid that Drnovšk's ministers speak differently about the same matter. Mr Drnovškov's Minister, former Minister, says that this is too soon to cause serious consequences. High recent candidate for Vice-President of Liberal Democracy, or perhaps even further candidate and, after some combinations, also potential candidate for president, LDS president, some transitional government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u51	That's not a topic, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u52	No, no, no. Not about that - Mr Miloš Kovacič, the candidate for Vice-President of Liberal Democracy, speaks here, as others have already quoted, to expect that the change will not be confirmed. [[...]] This is what the highest functionaries of liberal democracy say about the same matter in a completely different way. I see some unrest here in these kinds, unanimity, even what has been passed on to the Group of Members. And I would also like to know whether what Mr Miloš Kovacic says is that half of Europe is on the watch list, which is why the world is not over. This was said by the high-level functionary of liberal democracy, which is also - Mr Jaša Zlębec - I would say, an intellectual.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u53	I'm asking for peace in the hall. And I suggest we stick to the darkness.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u54	For this reason, some harmonisation should be achieved here and we should actually find out how these changes will affect these decisions. See, the problem is that we also have a relatively high-quality education, higher education in the field of chemical personnel education. And now, under the influence of this, these development centers - Krka is already predicting - will be moving to Russia, for example. Because Russia is such a big country that it doesn't have to eliminate this pressure. I'm not saying we have to insist that we don't move. We may need to accept this today. We may be at a fateful crossroads in some other political areas because of this, but we need to get these answers. However, I do not have the sense that the government is seriously considering that all these areas of economic impact, the political effects will remain unanswered, because I think it would be better for the two ministers to come here - with due respect for all State secretaries and other servants - than for five lower-ranking officials to come. Because we'd be more confident that they're behind this politically. I hope that in addition to Minister Kebra, other authorities will give appropriate answers so that we will be as calm as possible so that we do not make a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, your performance has provoked a replica, colleague Anderlič wants a word. I'm asking for peace in the hall! My friend Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u56	Of course, it is not the reaction that is common when Mr Jerovšek revives the atmosphere in the hall and then uses a few things to comment on. Today he was not so witty that it would be worth commenting on, which he was talking about in the middle, and I also think that there is a departure from the agenda. It is true, however, that it would be very good if, when quoting various statements, he actually convinced himself what was said in the statements themselves and what had previously been said on a certain subject or what had happened and why such statements had also been made. The fact is that the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry has been most interested in this - and this stems from statements made by both Mr Draganje and Mr Kovacic for many years, if you want, the last two, three years - that the situation in the field of intellectual property protection and the possibility of them doing things in the context of their activities as they do in the regulated world. And it is certainly not possible to make these statements from the past, including what Mr Minister has today explained that, despite everything, the government and the ministry have only been able to do even more delicately in recent years than in recent years, so the government and the ministry followed the needs of the pharmaceutical industry, and have done some things hand in hand or shoulder-to-hand, which were regulated first in the drug law of 1999 and then in amending the law of 2000. And this, I think, is a responsible doing, because every matter that this Parliament or the government has adopted before has to be, to some extent or to the extent that these interests can be consistent, tested, verified with those to which it relates and to which it is for the benefit, harm or, in general, for which it is accepted. And that is why, at least that is my opinion, the conviction that, in fact, in recent days, in the last days, when I am actually looking at this material in more detail, I believe, is that the State of Slovenia, when it takes this decision to change this law, which we have changed in 2000 to make a difference to this country, this pharmaceutical industry, to these citizens, not only in the segment that is possible at this point, shows that it is economic, that it is shown through the price of medicines, that it is shown through the lack of knowledge of any other elements. For the existence of this industry during a transitional period when Slovenia will be a member of the European Union, when it will also breathe the air of the World Trade Organisation with full lungs and will be a partner of those who will be worthy of the respect that will be appreciated because they respect the law, etc.; that this is much more of an interest than a short-term interest, as far as possible this year. This is my firm belief after what I know. It takes time, knowledge, procedures, and so on to prepare a generic medicine. and at the moment, I cannot argue the opposite, as the Minister claims, as the Government claims, or as at this point I claim, because I have convinced myself and I have checked everything that has to do with it. It may be easier to sit on a public opinion asking 182 readers, saying, "Are you in favour of adopting this law because it pressures America?" "I'm not up for it." I have been one of the few who has twice troubled the college to put this point on the agenda because I have always resisted and never to do anything under pressure. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] That's why, of course, I think you're gonna spend all your stuff, throw everything into one basket - but I'm gonna have to come back again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dr. Keber asked that Dr. Nahtigal, Director of the Government's Legislative Service first take his place, please, do you have a replica, Comrade Jerovšek? [[...]] Is it necessary? Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u58	No, because my friend Anderlich is like he replicated to me. I don't see any contradiction between my performance and yours. I'm also wondering if - I'd like to make the best decision and make the most right decision. But I've set you up whether there may be a dismemberment of this coalition in this, or whether it's hidden from avoiding entry into NATO. On you, I'd rather hear an answer why dissipation, if we all stand for economic national interests, then a government coalition with better data, better information could be united in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u59	My friend Anderlich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u60	I am firmly convinced, Mr Jerovšek, that I can answer very briefly. Yesterday, it was clearly expressed in this Chamber, what the relationship of this coalition to NATO is, after all, through the establishment of civil society societies, or, as it is called, together, ministers and representatives of an important member of the opposition, even the party's president, means that we are not only a coalition, even a coalition and opposition on a similar shore. As for this law and the vote on this law, be sure that the vote will show how united and how many votes this coalition gathers, and I am sure that there will be one more vote than is necessary to reject the law, so that the law will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. So first, I'd like to give the floor to Dr. Nahtigal, the director of the service, after him to the minister. Yes, Minister, you wanted such order of government representatives? Okay. Dr. Nahtigal, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u62	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! You have already pointed out in the debate a number of issues, dilemmas, doubts, uncertainties concerning this debate, a number of issues that we would like to explain and explain in our best interests and knowledge, as well as colleagues from individual departments, these are the departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a member of the narrower negotiating group with the European Union and representatives, industrial property experts, i.e. from the Office of Intellectual Property. The question at this point on the table is, in fact, on the one hand, as we have seen from the debate, very complex and very difficult, and on the other hand it could be crystallized and very clearly defined. It is a matter of whether Slovenia is prepared and will, at a normative level and through its institutions, respect the commitment to the so-called protection of the exclusiveness of data in the procedures for the registration of medicinal products or not. This is a commitment for which there were not many questions or doubts in the past. From its independence, Slovenia is a fully credible member of many international organisations, associations, and is rapidly integrated into the European Union and other strategic global integration. By the early 1990s, it had produced a very good and internationally recognized law on industrial property, which for some time had been considered a model law, which other countries in transition and other countries, which were somehow trying to get in the way of developed countries, both at the legal level and in economic, social and other areas, should try to imitate it. However, there is a decade of rapid development in industrial property, technological development, including pharmaceuticals. Thus, Slovenia has also been forced into the course of this decade, including due to membership and accepted international obligations - we know that there is also a very rapid development of international law, international standards in various areas; globalisation is taking place extremely quickly and Slovenia is part of these processes, both international, globalisation and integration, and within this it also accepts a series of new obligations, which it is also trying to implement in our internal legal order and thus the commitment to take them out and also to implement them in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a whole series of different rounds of negotiations within the World Trade Organisation, it is the signing of the European Association Agreement, it is a series of other commitments that Slovenia has adopted this decade. As it has been said, in all this time there was no shadow of doubt in the Republic of Slovenia that it carried out all accepted commitments in the field of industrial property in a qualitative and credible manner. The first doubt that arose appeared with a sudden and rapid amendment of the drug law in mid-summer 2000. Until then, it was considered that the drug law was also fully in line with all the commitments made, not being criticized in any way, questioned. However, the swift, somewhat unexpected amendment to this so-called 116a article, which delays the taking-up of obligations related to the so-called protection of data exclusion, took place in July. There was not much talk at the time, nor much debate, but since then, virtually since the summer of 2000, abroad has been asking various national institutions, departments, governments, what that change, sudden and incomprehensible for others, as well as for the various producers who are performing and participating in our market, actually means. The question on the table was very simple: whether Slovenia continues to adopt all the rules, all the international commitments in the field of industrial property protection, the protection of intellectual services, or whether this postponement of these commitments somehow wishes to withdraw. It was therefore a question of whether we are prepared or capable within the Medicines Office, where medicinal products can then be registered, which can then occur or have access to the Slovenian drug market, or in those procedures where applicants, i.e. producers of medicinal products, must submit the necessary documentation, whether that documentation is protected in this office so that they do not have other competitors access to it or not. The procedure for the registration of medicinal products is carried out by manufacturers who have, say, their product patented, protected at the Industrial Property Office to submit during the marketing authorisation process - also have to submit this and all this documentation to the Medicines Office and there are all these studies, which are very professional, which are clinical studies, which are one of the conditions for original medicines to be marketed to hospitals, pharmacies and in the final phase to patients. These clinical studies have been produced over the years. It's about being tested first - new drugs, new products - on animals, then on different clinics, there's a whole range of scientific labs and all sorts of other experiments that prove the effectiveness and inviolability of such a medicine. So, they're very expensive studies, very long years go on and the producers of generics of these studies don't do. These clinical studies are not done because they take too long because they are too expensive and because generic producers simply do not pay. The question raised by different national institutions is therefore whether Slovenia will provide potential manufacturers of original innovative medicines in Slovenia with these clinical studies, whether it ensures that others will not be able to use them or not. This is all a question, a legal, professional question in the field of so-called data exclusion and, of course, whether generic manufacturers can use these clinical studies or can refer to them when they themselves try to register for similar medicines on a particular drug market. This is a question that has been resolved in the past, which has been adopted once in Parliament, and it has been said that the transitional period until 31.12.1999, and has been indisputable until the summer of 2000, when we suddenly get this extension of this period for two years and then the whole story opens again. It is an area or issue which the pharmacists, the pharmaceutical industry knows very well, both national and global, and it is simply a matter of whether they are willing to maintain their commitments and ensure the protection of these clinical studies and other data submitted to the registration office or not. So this is the basic dilemma, the legal dilemma that is currently on the table with this law. Of course, it is also a matter of international legal question as to whether Slovenia is prepared and able to provide such protection to all pharmaceutical producers. Such a solution was put to the question - this change, sudden, from the summer of 2000, was put under question - by several different international associations, among other things, it has been criticised repeatedly by the European Commission, which considers that such a postponement of obligations already undertaken is not in place, and somehow calls on the Republic of Slovenia to return this decision to the situation that has been adopted once in the past, which has already been agreed upon and has been known for many years, virtually throughout the 1990s, both by national manufacturers of medicines and world producers, and has a long transitional period in which they could prepare to respond effectively enough to the new responses that are the result of the international obligations and the readiness of Slovenia to take into account and respect and play in accordance with international standards and to be able to implement them in their legal order, in front of their domestic institutions, not even to give due to non-compliance. It is therefore a matter of whether we are also prepared to truly implement those commitments that we have committed, which have been confirmed by the government that have been ratified in Parliament - this applies both to the European Association Agreement and to the Marrakesh Agreement, as well as to membership in all possible international organisations and related commitments in this regard. So much for the legal dilemma and the question of whether we are therefore prepared to give a clear signal that in Slovenia, in the Slovenian legal order, the information at the Office for Medicinal Products is legally protected. As regards some other issues that have been raised: what does it mean to be listed 301. In fact, it is a signal, a warning or warning that Slovenia does not implement those international obligations for which it has itself acceded, to which it has committed itself to implement them. It's not a bilateral matter, it's a multilateral matter. It is a matter of warning the entire world public, because, as usual in such situations, it will go very quickly around the world that Slovenia is suddenly no longer a credible member or enforcer of international industrial property legislation. Only this change - therefore, stands with it or falls the credibility of Slovenia in the field of the enforcement of industrial property protection. In addition to losing credibility on List 301 in the area of industrial property, Slovenia, with just such a world publication - for this reason - will have a number of other concrete and even more indirect consequences. At the moment, it will also lose its credibility in international financial institutions, which is difficult - this is based on the experience of other countries on this list - access to the international capital market, raising interest rates for individual capital seekers, either for exports and similar things, and a whole range of other consequences. At the same time, Slovenia will be even more rigorous under the scrutiny of international institutions as well as the US trade representative in the field of pharmaceuticals first, both in Slovenia and in exports to the United States, where a whole series of procedures will be introduced, and then this will gradually spread to all other exporters and to the whole, slowly, gradually, gradually, even if we are not cooperative. In this case, it will essentially expand the review of the full implementation of legislation in the field of economy, finance, protection of industrial property and so on. In short, a whole series of negative consequences that have also occurred in a number of other countries that have been included in this list 301. However, it is much easier, as the experience of other countries shows, to come to this list than to withdraw from it; it usually takes several years, a whole series of additional proofs of credibility, possibly new changes and so on, which such classification would mean for the Republic of Slovenia. As for -- maybe just for a little while, I'm sorry if I'm a little too long -- so somehow this is a question of "cost benefit" analysis. The second is the issue of academic debates on interpretation, non-interpretation of international obligations. This is a rather interesting professional question at the moment, but it is an academic question. At this point, it is a very specific question: whether or not we are ready to say that we will respect the protection of data by the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as the EU is concerned, this is an area that has not been specifically agreed upon or endorsed by the EU. In order to protect data with the European Union, we now have a transitional period for the re-registration of medicines that are not threatened and continue to apply until 2007. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Dr. Nahtigal. He asked his colleague Jelinčič for a replica, then I'll give the floor to the Minister, Dr. Kebra. Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Nahtigal, I know that as Drnovškov's adlatus you should speak like this, but I would still like to tell you that the Health and Medical Devices Act was passed in 1999 and that you missed the general debate at that time. This does not need to be repeated today; and even changes and additions to the law were adopted in 2000. That is to say, there is no need to renew matters, for today we have another law before us that has two articles. With regard to the "watch list", I must remind you that there are more than half of Europe on it. He's always on this watch list, the greatest friend of the United States of America, Israel. He doesn't even go off the watch list. Italy, as an ally in the NATO Pact, goes down a little bit and back on the watch list, and back down again on the watch list. The neighbour of the United States of America from another continent, Canada is more or less constantly present on the "watch list". That's why, Mr. Nahtigal, you're not going to convince us with your speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. There are no more names on my list for discussion. A colleague of mags. Vizjak will be given the floor after he has been given the floor to the Minister, unless you want the Minister to hold the debate of Members to a standstill and answer in the end. At the end. Okay. You want to explain to the minister. Okay. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u66	Dear Members and Members. I also understand from your discussions that you do not care what will be the decision in the vote on today's law. And so you share my concern, which is also my concern, and which is also the government's concern to make the right decision. After all, I will try to tell you that today you have an extraordinary law before you because the government did not want to take responsibility for anything that might have followed if they might have been included on the so-called United States watch list. We will have to make this decision together in the National Assembly. Let me put it this way. First of all, it's not a condition for us to join the NATO Pact. We don't know that. Maybe that'll work, but we don't know that. I can tell you the truth. We do not know if this would be a condition for us to join the European Union. Very likely, but we don't know. But no doubt wherever Slovenia will be, whether in these international associations or not, it will have to respect international law and in the area of intellectual property international law is increasingly respected, even in countries that are far more distant from Slovenia at development level. So simple when we ask ourselves whether this is our legislation or whether we respect our own law - yes. Whether we respect international law, of course we must answer together. And we will make commitments and we will join the international community in such a way as to respect international law. The United States - they do not need to blackmail, only so large that they can organise their "watch" list and their pressures through their Ministry of Commerce. One small country could put us in front of the World Trade Organization and initiate the same procedures. Let me remind you that our companies, as well as our pharmaceutical companies, in some successful cases, refer to international legislation. That is why it is still necessary to say what Mr Nahtigal said. This history that Slovenia in fact bravely accepts all the obligations already in 1999, then postpones them for two years in 2000 and undoubtedly draws a lot of attention by this act to those who are looking for the reasons why we did it. And at this point, let me say, there is also evidence for those who have questioned what the government has done to delay anything, effects, pressures, blackmails or whatever you wish to name, although, in my opinion, blackmail is not, of course, what can be required under international law. Slovenia or the Slovenian government, perhaps a small one, has done precisely that we are not yet subject to any sanctions, but in January 2002 and until the end of the existing law, it is only 11 months. At least she did it. In fact, the possibility that he would influence the opposite side with some data prevents him from telling you about discreet diplomacy, about concessions, about the shrinking of one eye, waiting for a procedure through parliament that was always obvious as a matter of artificial delay, and not least about the unsigned documents that required us not to register any medicinal product until the law was amended, which we firmly rejected and declared to interfere with the internal legislation of the Slovenian State. So many people who think we don't know what the existing legislation is. That is exactly what we have demanded of respect for existing legislation. I am sorry, of course, although it was necessary that the processes that were discreet should not have been published in large ears, but are certainly representatives of individual parliamentary groups, and in particular the parent committee that was actually asking questions, I think it was last June, which would not have been quickly adopted by this short law. We have made it discreet to know what problems these are, what decisions are behind us, what decisions we have led to the marriage and wanted to adopt it following a regular procedure in December 2001. That's what we expected to happen. And since it didn't happen because this meeting was being drawn, then we were assured that the next regular session would be before January 22nd. And it was only after we realized that there would be no regular session before January 22nd, and because this "dead line" by America on January 25th, that we decided to risk no doubt a risky decision as to how it would react both to you and to the public, that we would say an extraordinary session just because some of you are interpreting as an unscrupulous failure to pressure some pharmaceutical industry. In fact, it is our common destiny and our joint decision and to repeat that sentence: I feel that many among you have expressed this feeling also from the opposition species, that there is a great decision on how to make a decision. Allow me to repeat the answers to those important questions that you have asked me so that you can make a better decision. If you're asking me for benefits and damage for years to come, of course you can't get it. You can expect me to answer what will happen in the current months, as long as we reduce this amendment to the law the possibility of our pharmaceutical industry. Because in any case, the existing law applies after 1 January of the following year. For this period, you can expect an answer from me. You may not be happy with my answer here either. As you quote phone calls from Moscow as relevant, you quote newspaper entries that are supposed to be relevant. These representatives of the pharmaceutical industry were in the National Assembly of the Health Committee in early December. So, before that session we thought we'd be considering this law. Many of these board members are sitting in this Chamber. The vote at the end of the session was 13:0. Is that not reason enough for you to believe that we have not heard the relevant reasons at this meeting? No, not even a petition by the pharmaceutical industry that it is absolutely necessary to postpone the law, that it is very dangerous for it, because, after all, the committee would not be able to hear it if we heard it. We haven't heard a single list of drugs that are supposed to be in the process yet. However, let me at least partially explain the error or not the error of some interpretations. On 5 December - this is the answer not only for Member Podobnik, but also for some others, Member Potrča - On 5 December, there were still some other products that we were waiting for registration to literally tempt her with the process in the National Assembly and all these products were registered and published in the Official Journal, which no doubt many Members in this Chamber know and received personal confirmation from representatives of both pharmaceutical industries. Now let's answer whether there is anything else to register this year, but let's just say that this is so important that we're risking a "watch" list. We have not received an answer from the pharmaceutical industry, neither in the committee nor specifically from specific questions. The answer was no, or maybe it's something, but it doesn't matter. So there was no answer. Let me say that the pharmaceutical industry, too, which we registered at the end of the year, for a long time did not provide data on them so that we know what we can and how we can help them. But it's also a matter of tactics on her part. Clearly, therefore, by conduct, not because I know it, but by the information I have asked for, and I believe that if the government or the Minister of Health represents the interests of the pharmaceutical industry, it should at least find them out in confidence. I can answer that I don't have a single cure in my head that, although just by chance, might come in line this year. In doing so, you need to know that the process of these new medicines, which were already registered by both factories in December of last year, required extraordinary effort from them - this is not just paper work. Therefore, it can also be reasonably concluded that the new process of some important medicines in the second year is not a cough. Above all, the registration procedure at our Office for Medicinal Products is also long and can last for seven months and in any case lasts for many months. This means that once again, at the level of sound reasoning, the space is narrowed down so that this pharmaceutical industry can acquire anything else in 2002. Finally, a question is asked, which is constantly asked what this means for a medical cash register. I am monitoring a number of laws where, in the end, there is a constant question of what it means in the financial sense, what it means, say, because of the European Union, whether it is financial consequences or not. Undoubtedly, there is a breach of a piece in intellectual law, and this time we have committed a misdemeanour, whether we want it or not, even if it is small. Let me tell you, it's not a big piracy, I've said it a lot today, it's a shard that pharmaceutical giants have imposed, but now it's in the law. So we're at a disadvantage at this stage. And it's clear that if we're in the wrong, it's a benefit to the one who's in the wrong. After all, I wouldn't be guilty. If you're asking me how much loss he's gonna lose now that he's gone, he should be the one to say it. Undoubtedly, though, it is not the right answer. The real answer to this is how to adapt, how it will adapt, how it will adopt other game criteria, how it will settle in the same way – but what would repeat what is very good and better said by Member Bernik. In any case, a certain adjustment is required before our industry. You're wondering if it was a shock to her. Students in college have known for a number of years that it is this wonderful horse of our pharmaceutical industry that needs some adjustments. It is true that students of pharmaceuticals, medicine and others do not know exactly what the point is, but know that we need adjustment. And of course how well the pharmaceutical industry knows that. It's just a simple process of how to buy a few more months, or you can buy a few more months. And the answer is whether we want to make an impression on this, I don't know what I'd say, small countries from the former Balkans who would buy a little bit more and under the carpet, so as to keep pushing ahead, or whether we want to get involved because sooner or later we have to and sooner it will be painful, and it will be increasingly difficult - whether we want to make things right with this legal order as soon as possible. The opinion of the government, the opinion of various ministers, was also cited. Well, whether it is an anecdotes or not, today all government ministers had the opportunity to tell the government whether they did not agree with it because there was a discussion about it again. But there was no opposing opinion on this, even vice versa, of the commitment to do so. That is why I am just telling you this: the government has overestimated and estimated that, in weighing what we can say for the first moment that it is bad in any case, it takes away this effect to accept something that we are going to have in force on 31 December this year, far off and, in fact, there is no harm at all compared to what may follow with the consequences; but I will not end up with America, with consequences in the international community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Your performance has provoked some replicas. First, my friend Barovich, then Procedural? [[...]] Mag. Vizjak, procedurally has the advantage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u68	Thank you very much, President. Although I did answer earlier, I actually wanted to hear the Minister of Health's response to all the questions raised. From the discussions or replies of government representatives, it was the wind and the tone that it was a fateful decision to make decisions related to the credibility of Slovenia in the international space, that it was issues of respect for the commitments we made - I stress, the commitments made by the Government. And, of course, that gratuitous for possible fatal consequences for the Slovenian economy, if of course they were included on the so-called "watch" list 301. It is up to the representatives of the Group, Members and Members, or only Members, to conclude that virtually the majority of the Group is opposed or will not support this Act. That is why we have a serious question in the opposition - the serious question of the state assembly's test and the test of this government coalition. We therefore propose and also wish that the Prime Minister in the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 117 of the Constitution and also with Rule 278 of the Rules of Procedure, bind the Government's trustee to the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u69	A colleague of mags. Visjak, paragraph 278, says that the question of a confidant may be linked to the adoption of a law or other decision. It's his decision whether or not he'll do it. Comrade Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u70	I stress, once again, that this is a serious, fateful issue, and I think that, given the climate and the positions expressed in the National Assembly for these speeches, the Minister or Prime Minister should do so, because it can happen that because of his or his government coalition, Slovenia will face a fateful and somehow serious problem. We therefore propose that this should happen and we propose this in particular because the opposition will not be saving the government's party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u71	This proposal is legitimate, but it is the Prime Minister who decides whether or not to take such a decision. We can't load it either. This is an explanation concerning the interpretation of this Article. My friend Barovic now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Well, we would if a procedural proposal were put to the vote, we would support it, but that's not my replica. I'd like to tell the distinguished Minister something. I cannot land and no one here, the opposition or the position, claims that Slovenia is in breach of international law. Please, where? Slovenia has opted for a transitional period of two years. Slovenia, its own country for the content of this law, ends on 31 December of this year. The negotiating group has chosen a transitional period in order to enable the State to prepare for enforcement to lay down this law. So Slovenia has not yet violated international law. And another question. With what right can someone place us on the "watch list" 301 - this is a list of countries with low economic and political credibility - when Slovenia is in the process of negotiating with the European Union to join the European Union in the first place, with 26 out of 29 chapters closed and with the recognition of most countries of all Europe and the world that it is a politically credible country. With what right, I ask again, one can then place us on a list of countries with low economic and political credibility, I repeat, with 26 out of 29 demanding chapters to join the European Union. I submit that Slovenia is not in breach of international law and of any arrangements until 31 December. I also say that, most countries, both candidates and even more members, each one chooses even longer transitional periods than we do, to take care of itself and to prepare for the enforcement of the law. Therefore, the government cannot convince me that I must accept something for which the time is, I repeat, until 31 December 2002. I'm sure at least most people can agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u73	You'll get the word, at least according to my list, and colleague Jelinčič and Anderlič, then we'll go to the vote. That's why I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to come to the hall. First of all, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I listened earlier to the Minister and then to the fellow Member who proposed that we should ask ourselves about the Government's confidence, I agree with this proposal, although it did not go to the vote and it would make sense to think about it in any other way. I was terrified when I heard the Minister say that the Slovenian government has done everything that we are not under any sanctions. Does this mean that the United States of America threatened us with sanctions? And this, I don't know, maybe with people like the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Or were they preparing against Slovenia such sanctions as they have against Cuba? Could they have drawn up an Iraqi script? At least I would like to ask which of these three scenarios was prepared to impose sanctions against Slovenia, which our very good Slovenian government has so deterred.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u75	Comrade Anderlič, behind him colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u76	I just wanted to explain, particularly to my colleague Barovic, although there is probably something else to discuss and say that it is not so much a fear as Mr Vizjak is talking about, although it seems to me that it can contribute to the fact that this issue will not be so acute and so problematic that it simply contributes to the fact that, at the moment of the Slovenian, for, if you wish, the national interest to join in supporting this law. This concern and attachment of the confidant for this law seem to me to be possible at the wrong time or in the wrong way. Otherwise, to Mr. Barovich. It is simply that the World Trade Organisation or so-called WTO is an organisation in which Slovenia has joined long ago and past the European Union and the European Union are members. When it comes to what we have done to the European Union and the transitional period in no way does this bind any countries that are in the WTO and are not in the EU to not register us through the WTO and not put us on this list. So, but it's a lot of different things, and especially two things. The WTO is a global trading organisation in which we are full members. As a member, one of the other members, who has a particular interest, can report us, or whatever else, to this list, because we consider that we do not adhere to the rules of the organisation we are members of. This does not have a direct and complete link with the status we have in the European Union in order to be able to say this because we have done business in the EU in such a transitional period, and this also applies to all other relations, i.e. in the WTO. I think it's necessary to explain. It is certainly necessary here to say that it is the integration into the European Union that puts, if we want, the balance of America and other countries in the world in order to make certain rights, certain interests of this country easier to apply. Therefore, I think it is really necessary to separate that this fear or this prediction is considered a serious warning. But it is up to us to do what we choose and to do what is best for us at this very moment. I am convinced that at this point it is best for us to follow the Government's proposal and support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Comrade Podobnik wanted a word, followed by his colleague Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the proposal made by my colleague Visiak to place the decision on behalf of the Prime Minister - this is a business and constitutional option. It is somewhat unusual, however, because at least Dr. Bernick, who has worked in this area for many years, has announced his support for this law. He will most likely also be supported by a number of members of his parliamentary group. But this is also the way in which the government and the Prime Minister commit themselves to taking a political stand for a project. And I support this call of yours. I followed the following from the Minister's performance. That the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry does not currently have any generic medicinal products in the register. That's how I understood you. This seems very important to me, if I understand you like this, it will be very important information for my decision. When I went to see the debate at the committee meeting, which you quoted several times, I was also there, I voted in favour of the law, you announced in advance, Mr Minister, Parliament, when discussing this law, will be informed whether all the proceedings have been completed - very correctly. You let us know today. That's why I think we solved one problem. In your performance, which you were convinced of, it seems to me that you have stumbled upon a position that is unusual: that we were like a country in a crime. Where we have been, which law we have broken, which international treaty we have not fulfilled - the Minister must not speak like that in Parliament, you know. That's an unusual position. How can a country be a criminal? Who is responsible for this view? However, I think there may have been a misunderstanding here, and before we vote on this issue, it would be good for this misunderstanding to be clarified. With the knowledge of the Minister of State, it must not be an offence, otherwise it is the political responsibility of the one who claims it. I'm not talking to you, but I'm talking to the government as a whole. But all I have is a question. Deadline, January 25, 2002, "watch" list 301 - where does that say, can you show me the document? Do you have a dispatch? Is that what Mr. Young was mediating? I want to see the paper because I don't believe you. Where's 25.1., show me the paper and I'll believe you. Because sometimes such a date appears that this is a very strong pressure on Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Comrade Potts, according to my list, you're the last person reported for word. Dr. Bernick will want more.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I would first just like a brief replica or an opinion, a warning regarding Mr Nakhtigal and Mr Minister's debate. I would say, I accept that this is two branches of government within which each has its own responsibility. However, I do not accept that one branch of power is fully responsible for the other, and this is especially what Mr Nahtigal, and in part also Mr Minister, has tried to do. We have really adopted three laws in three years, but with three hands, I must say, each of these on a proposal from the government. And so today to say that one wrong decision was possible, but if it was, it was also a wrong decision on a proposal from the government. And on 30 March, the government, in which Dr. Drnovšek was also President, actually the Minister of Health of another, proposed a law that we adopted on 31 July and extended that period. The explanation for the need to do so was as follows: the immediate implementation of the requirement in the third indent of the first paragraph, the time limit, is contrary to the economic and economic interests of Slovenia. Now, don't mind me saying that. I guess that's the kind of decision that was made. She's different now. If I did not return my call, I would like to thank the Minister for other information and words. However, we agreed in the parliamentary group to consider this together, and I would ask for a 15-minute recess before deciding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u81	The Joint List Group has announced a request for a 15-minute leave from decision-making. We are still in the middle of a debate, and colleagues from Dr Bernik and Mr Minister have also been reported. First of all, Dr. Bernick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This debate is relatively sad. There's so much demagogy, it's like there's all kinds of countries on sheet 301 and stuff. This is very misleading, because countries can be on this list for various reasons. And we all know that. Besides, I don't know, Mr. Nahtigal is going to fix me, if I'm wrong, and there's a list of "super 301", and we're not going to talk about it. I don't think the pharmaceutical industry needs some of the proponents it has here. It is very interesting that such a pharmaceutical industry as ours, which is rich, which has extremely capable managers, must look for advocates here. While they tell, say, one pharmaceutical company says: "Patent protection causes a monopoly that harms countries where this industry is not dominant." Ask the people from our two Slovenian companies if they have any patents. I hope they do. And I guarantee you mine, otherwise my lowest salary is in Parliament, but with my salary I guarantee you that as soon as someone who is registered anywhere in the world, our company, the Slovenian pharmaceutical company, will go and sue someone who violates this patent. And that's just the right thing to do. On the contrary, any foreign company here would have done it. Secondly, it is said that one of these companies in Moscow yesterday laid the foundation stone for the production of medicines, which would otherwise have been produced in Krka in Nové Mesto. Come on, please, which company is going to do these things so quickly. If that is true, they have long planned and, of course, launched this today when we have this debate. That's what you say, there's a lot of dishonesty here, it's got to be admitted. It seems to me that I often disagree with Minister Dr. Kebro, but today he has made some things very clear. And I mean, "pacta sui servanda" and patents then also technical information and so on. These are obligations to be respected. We will not follow the Argentine model, where companies, foreign companies, even maybe some Slovenian, I don't know, invested or wanted to register one process for a new drug. And what happened? It happened that the domestic company that bought that data from the Ministry under the table was the first in the market and the others waited another two years. The original producers then waited several years. Look, if she had to be in the economy, then we have to ask ourselves what kind of morality this is. In addition, it is said that our companies will work or produce these generic products in Russia and elsewhere. I wish you good luck with that, even though I know that if these products are registered there, they won't make it. But it's good to have them try, even though I think they're breaking the moral or ethical laws of the economy. But this is so, if everything goes into the economy, every thing goes, then they will do it for their own benefit, and of course they will do it for moral loss. It is necessary to deal with this, with this proposal, as I said before, I have here a list of those who voted 1999 to limit and hope, of course, some who have surrendered to be here, there have been none. And so there was no need to vote. I call on everyone to try to follow the government in the sense that this is accepted, not for America, not for the European Union, but for ourselves. I think that this is the only thing I can recommend, although I do not like to vote for it because I have not received an answer to the question of what the government has been doing all year, because it was well aware that this will happen. I didn't get that. So I'm a little bit, as I say, uncertain whether it was the government that caused it, by neglecting its duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. So they asked for a word or a replica, Mr Minister, colleague Jelinčič, colleague Simšičeva, and if I see it correctly, I will give my colleagues my word in turn. At the same time, I'd say we have a good enough debate. I suggest that those things that have already been said are not a matter of repetition. Mr. Secretary, would you like to explain some things? Okay, you have the floor. After you, colleague Jelinčič and colleague Simšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u84	I've heard some legitimate questions. First of all, of course, the state of the offence, Mr. Sponik. It is better to say that we are perceived to be in breach of obligations and that they expect us to adapt to international law in this regard. Of course, no one has actually identified the offence. Otherwise, I would have answered Mr Ambassador Potsch. In this case, maybe we didn't get along. Yes, it can be found that our 2000 law eventually came through happily and that our pharmaceutical industry still benefited from a delay that has lasted for a year and a half since then. Definitely. This results in at least a partial response to Mr Bernik's actions. The government was simply, as I said, holding back what Mr Jelinčič asked what sanctions they were. Sanctions, of course, I still said, as far as America is concerned, it's something we discussed today, and it's called this "watch" list. By the way, Hungary has already gone to the second stage of this "watch" list. Subsequent to the third stage, severe sanctions shall be imposed. That means we didn't come to this. I also agree with Mr Potts, if he has understood me in this way, to place our responsibility on Parliament. No, no, no. This was the part of the explanation when I wanted to explain why the urgency, such an unusual need to meet only because of the linkage to this date, because we simply failed, perhaps because of our indiscretion to come to Parliament's meetings in December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Colleague Jelinčič, colleague of Simšič, colleague of Ašić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am concerned that in Parliament we have members, Members of Parliament who are so committed to the interests of the United States and are willing to prefer them over Slovenians. I mean, I'm sorry, but given the historical facts, I'm not surprised.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u87	She's a colleague of Simsich's. Please, colleague Simšič. Then Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In fact, I would like to respond to Mr Bernik's words, who wondered how the successful Slovenian industry had advocates in the Slovenian Parliament. I think it's perfectly normal. It is normal for each national parliament to have a successful national industry as advocates in the national parliament, whether we call it a national assembly or an American congress. And that's why I can't understand you, Mr Bernik, how can you ask and wonder if some are just defending or defending this industry. [[...]] I have one more question. I still do not understand, although Mr Minister has worked very hard and some others have also explained why we must do so quickly. The law and negotiations with the European Union allow us to reach the end of this year. We are in violation of nothing yet, we have not committed any offence, and we are a credible country in international negotiations with the European Union. In fact, I would also like to comment on the words that I have heard very briefly on the radio today, in Events and Echoes, but I have not heard the whole conversation, which was significantly longer, with Mr Pretnar, who is employed in the World Organisation for the Protection of Intellectual or Industrial Property in Geneva. In summary, he said that this law is not necessary for Slovenia and that Slovenia does not violate and does not cause any confusion in respect of intellectual or industrial property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u89	Comrade Aishovich, follow you, Dr. Bernick. You wanted to? Comrade Sok, did you want a word? Comrade Auschwitz, then Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I didn't even intend to make a call, but a few words and some announcements on how this law will be voted on have led me to take a call. I looked at the outcome of the vote of 17 July last year when we adopted this law at first reading. I really wonder what has happened since then, except that it is very good that both pharmaceutical companies have been able to register what is necessary and I can safely say that there is nothing waiting for. I have also allowed myself to call a colleague of the director of the new town pharmaceutical company, who recently confirmed to me that the real Krka, the drug factory, the shareholder company, does not have one single drug that can be registered this year, that it has everything registered, which relates to this area. When I looked at this copy, I found that there was a vote in the first reading for this Law of 58 Members and that 52 Members were in favour. Mr Vizjak as well as Mr Ptrč and all those who have some concerns, and in fact Mr Bernik has said what I think he has said very rightly, that he has told us professionally what this is about. We had a consensus on this marriage six months ago. This consensus was probably in the belief that we are sincere in our desire to go quickly to the European Union and that the ticket for NATO will be available to us once. What has changed in six months to now, I ask myself, and ask all those who predict that you will vote against this law, and you supported it in the first reading in the same content. The same law as it was adopted in the first reading was proposed in the second reading today, but no one has tried, and the law is open in the second reading to make an amendment, if anything, to the existing law. [[The ad from the bench.]] No, of those who supported this law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u91	Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u92	Those who supported this law in the first reading. [[...]] So I really suggest that we lead this debate mainly at the professional level and stop politically instilling certain things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u93	Look, I think we've had, again, a good enough discussion so far. Now the arguments were starting to repeat themselves. Of course, I will give anyone who demands a word, no doubt about it - Dr. Bernik, colleague Sok, colleague mag. Vizjak, they are reported - but I appeal that now the replicas would not blur this discussion - colleague Dr. Bernik has the first word - because then there will be a fifteen-minute break for the Si are replicas, all are replicas, colleague mag. A visor. [[...]] If Dr. Bernick's colleague demanded a word in front of you for the same replica, then it's a replica! [[...]] Therefore, there are also limits to five minutes. Dr. Bernick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is all I would have answered for my fellow Members. I did not mean it; if it were hired by the pharmaceutical industry, it would certainly be a more successful advocate than some others who operated on incomplete data and so on. But as for the U.S. defense, I'm going to say this: I will always defend what's right. I don't stand for the United States, not America, not anyone else, but what's in business ethics. I have repeatedly spoken against the United States because they were wrong, and I will do so today. You're just gonna have to forgive me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u95	Now, Comrade Sok, and after you, Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I did not intend to raise this issue myself, but with all this demagogicism that some people are here today, I would still like to replicate, namely Mr Jelinčič and Mrs Simšič. I must say that I have understood the debate of my fellow Member, Dr Bernik, as an extremely professional debate, without, I would say, highlighting certain insinuations and so on, which he has tried to undermine if I can use this term, Mr Jelinčič. He had previously listed everything in his discussion, among other things. He also said that in the near past America had no anti-anthrax medicine and that it had made a generic anti-anthrax medicine itself quickly. I can tell you that of course this is not true; against anthrax basically every country has a cure because there are more antibiotics that act against anthrax. It was pure - you can wave your hand all you want, but you don't get to know all things either. But it could be someone, I'd say, like, by the way, a populism thing. So that's exactly what Dr. Bernik said, purely at the professional level, he said what the problem was; that was also what Mr. Minister was talking about, and I think Dr. Nahtigal was talking about. As for your debate, honourable Member, Mrs Simšičeva, I do not think you listened to Dr Bernick's debate. He was just wondering whether our pharmaceutical industry really needed so many advocates in this House and how to defend it. I'm not really sure if we're actually putting this thing down, if we're actually helping them with it. I don't think so. Sooner or later, she'll have to do it and she knows it. Probably the problem is that we don't listen enough and we don't listen enough in this House, and then somehow we're trying to push each other into some particular thing that hasn't been said. I would suggest that we listen better and perhaps take more into account the professional arguments than these, I would say, the populist ones that may be liked at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u97	I'm also a colleague of mags. The viscous and if there's no replica, I'll order a 15-minute recess. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I would have replicated the respectable colleague of Auschwitz, especially in that part, because he was either either not listening or in any way or wrongly concluding. In general, I have stressed in my debate that this discrepancy is felt on one side of the government's positions and on the other side of economic operators that work in an uncoordinated manner. They don't work with each other, they don't work with each other. And this is a significant difference from the first reading, and this is significantly different from what was said at the time. Therefore, Ninja felt that such a media fight would take place, as well as such statements, and I quote here from Dnevnik that Lek was disappointed with the views of the Slovenian government and the competent authorities, which did not exercise the interests of the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry in a reckless fight at home and abroad. Therefore, the proposed amendment to the drug law is strongly opposed. We didn't get those statements in the first reading. Therefore, we concluded and considered that the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry would agree on something in accordance with the arrangements and talks and coordination with the Slovenian government. Unfortunately this is not in the form of a position and is not in the reach of information about what the Slovenian government deals with the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry. And here we now highlight these concerns that follow from the statements made by the leading men of the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry. And that seems strange to someone right now. Please listen to our debate next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u99	Anyone else want a word? She's a colleague of Simsich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Just a brief explanation to Mr Ašić, when he mentioned the ballot and stated who would now vote differently, but he was not the first to say no to him today. But look. When we adopted the law at first reading, we adopted it, not after a reduced procedure, as proposed, but after a regular procedure. And even in the explanation, it was explained that he would go to law school on a regular basis. The law normally spends almost a year of time following regular parliamentary procedure in our National Assembly. That's how we understood it then. And, of course, we also understood that, at least some of us today who are asking questions and we are wondering that some new data have been given below, some new information that the situation has changed in some ways. That is why we are asking questions and therefore we want answers. And it's hard for me, and I'm sorry that today it's just the Minister of Health and the Secretary of State. You should at least be Foreign Minister if not someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u101	It's 7:58. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much. At this time of recess, I would ask for the Prime Minister's reply on the basis of our procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u103	The Prime Minister will decide whether to answer you or not. It's 7:59 p.m. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u104	I ask whether you have thus concluded the discussion of this Article or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u105	Article 1(1) Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u106	Yeah, I hope so, because I understood it was just a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u107	No, no, of course not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u108	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u109	The debate is closed. It's 19 and 59 minutes. We'll say it's 20. At 8:15, it is said, in 15 minutes, the National Assembly will meet to decide on the first vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u110	I invite fellow Members and fellow Members to come to the large debate room. The 15-minute recess requested by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats is behind us. We will first determine the presence in the Chamber, ask the representative of the parliamentary group if he wants to explain the decision and later vote on Article 1 of the bill. We'll first find out if there's a presence in the hall. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the quorum key. 53 Members and Members of Parliament are present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. My friend Run, don't you want a word? The National Assembly will therefore now turn to the vote on Article 1 of the bill. We're voting. We vote on the text of Article 1 of the bill. There are 60 Members and Members present, 47 of whom were in favour, 6 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] The Article has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 2. I'm putting to the debate the amendment and the second paragraph. Anybody want a word? He doesn't? Does he? My friend Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. Today we are meeting the only amendment that is being tabled on the legal matter submitted by the Ministry or Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With this amendment, we are only trying to reach an expiry date or a deadline within which the validity or legality of this law will enter into force. We suggest that all those who do not know at this time what they would do to accept this Solomonic decision to adopt the law begin to be valid on 31.12.2002. This essentially led to the commitment of the National Assembly, on the one hand, to what it has also been elected to - that is to speed up, preserve and develop the Slovenian economy, and on the other hand to all those so-called supporters of organisations on the other side of the ocean, to show the degree of willingness that the law itself has changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u112	Anybody want a word? I guess not. I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 2. I put this proposal to the vote. The motion shall be put to the vote. There are 63 Members and 8 Members present, supported by this proposal but not by 40. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 40.]] It is rejected and may therefore be put to the vote on the text of Article 2. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the text of Article 2. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There are 64 Members and Members present. 49 supported them, 7 against them. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the text has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? I guess not. We will therefore vote on the title of the law. Please plead with me. We vote on the title of the law. 66 Members and Members present. There were 50 for the address and 9 for the address. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand he's been accepted. As no amendment was adopted to the draft law in the second reading, the Committee and the Government propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 194 of the Rules of Procedure, we proceed to the third reading of the draft law. We are moving on to a decision on this procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 45 for, 8 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. This is how we move on to the third reading of the bill. No amendments were adopted. Does anyone want to discuss the law in its entirety? I guess not. That is why we are moving to a full vote on the law. I put this proposal to the vote. Vote explanation, Comrade Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. To avoid different perceptions sooner and later, allow me to explain my voice and I think I will also say on behalf of colleagues from the Slovenian national party. Even if all that I have been taught by my colleague, Mr Anderlič, is true that the WTO can accuse us of violating international law, I say, even if that is true, I do not understand this double game of our country when it speaks to the European Union on the one hand, it concludes transitional periods, on the other hand, by a world-wide organisation that ranks us on such and different lists of bad political and economic countries by "significant", in citing, and such a way of adopting, when we have not had this law on a regular basis since we agreed when we could go through a different procedure for regularity. All these changes and all these ways are more or less strange. At the end of the day, the WTO could put us on any list, at any time, under this law or without it. If we do [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] with Europe on the one hand, which has acknowledged credibility and given us two years, with another organisation on the other hand, and a third party, I do not know what it is like, but I do wonder, the credibility of this government when it behaves this way, on the other hand. [[...]] That is why I, as well as my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, will vote absolutely against this, as I have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u114	Comrade Jelinčič, behind him is Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I'll vote against it, too. This is because I would never sign the destruction of the Slovenian economy, as it has already been destroyed and, as it seems, will be done by the National Assembly, at least by most in it. They have wasted a lot of false arguments on us, including how the World Trade Organization will punish and sanction us for this, which is a simple lie. After all, America and Europe were the so-called banana war recently, where violations of legislation were extremely large and yet none of the countries or any of the countries had happened. The dispute has been resolved and the matter is proceeding normally. However, if Mr Drnovšek decides that it is necessary to bow to the ground for America, he will cling to the ground. And he's gonna ask the National Assembly to do it after him. Unfortunately, the coalition has such a majority that it can do so. And if he demands that we bow even deeper, they will bow even deeper. I am sorry that the American ambassador had to come to Slovenia, not to establish good relations and the right, equal trade relations between the two countries, but to show that he was sent from Africa to Slovenia to raise Slovenian tribes. And it seems our tribal leaders are willing to listen to someone who comes here to conduct and command. We are not prepared for such compromises in the Slovenian National Party. We know what national interest means. We know the damage to the pharmaceutical industry. And as Mr Kovacič has already said in the case of Krka, he said that Krka will not be completely destroyed because they had already secured a place for investments in Russia where they will transfer production, most of the production. By building research institutes there or already near Moscow, the Slovenian Faculty of Pharmacy will be able to sell the premises it had only a few years ago. Once again, we will be at the moment when Ljubljana will not have a pharmaceutical college and students will have to go, I don't know, maybe to Zagreb, maybe to Rome or to Vienna to study pharmacology. That's what's gonna happen. And because of this, the Slovenian National Party and I will never support such cheap, klečeplazna sale of Slovenian property.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer, behind you, Comrade Naughty.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, there's something to tell. A number of specific issues have been raised by the government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u118	Let me interrupt. Can we allow Comrade Petty Officer to explain his views in peace? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u119	So the government was asked a number of specific questions that it did not answer. Also, the dilemmas that have already arisen have not been explained in the explanation of the law, all that affects the economic and financial consequences, either of the state or of the industry. The government, from what was clear, has also not done all the work that should be done in terms of diplomacy. Diplomacy certainly isn't just an outside minister. Neither did the Slovenian public perform their part of diplomacy, I can say, even one part of the media. Of course, the acceptance of the American ambassador was not a good welcome. You know, these things, rudeness and indemnity, sometimes they get paid off, maybe in this direction, that then the negotiations are harder. Maybe there was something about it. Therefore, of course, if anything goes wrong, it will be at the expense of the Slovenian industry, the Slovenian national interest. It's just like that, sorry God. And everything happens too often that inappropriate government moves are then reflected and tried to save in Parliament, including at the expense of Slovenia. So, with such a taste, we are now fighting in this House, and that is also the reality of this Parliament and this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much. And my friend Zląbet. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u121	I'll vote for it myself, but with a double bitter feeling. The first is that the whole debate an hour ago and more reminded me of another lame debate that lasted for many years, namely free-carrying shops. In 1995, we signed an undertaking in Luxembourg to close free-of-customs stores, after which we delayed the years and years of this undertaking and actually lost credibility in Brussels year after year. We also listened to the threat of economic damage and the wave of unemployed workers in the PCPs, and in the end it turned out that it was a fantastic wealth of PCP owners and their lobbyists. We were able to hear a similar philosophy yesterday and today about Krka and Lek; we were able to listen on TV yesterday, as the director of Krka said, how the drugs will now be ten times more expensive, how the so-called impoverished Slovenian nation will no longer be able to access the drugs. It is necessary to respect intellectual property, as repeated by Americans all the time, and so much more respect must be given to intellectual property, which is subject to the sole world power. Absolute power is in his hands, but absolute power is, of course, absolute obstinacy. And here I would like to comment to my colleague Drobnič on how Ambassador Young, as a representative of this absolute power today in the world, broke all the rules of diplomatic conduct when he gave interviews to Slovenian publications before he even came to Slovenia or even before he received accreditation, which, of course, is a diplomatic scandal without chance, except when it comes to the greatest majesty. Well, to respect intellectual property, as a result of America's insistence on respect for intellectual property, it was that they left millions of people to die from AIDS in South America, especially in Brazil and throughout Africa, and had to go through a long period of time that America withdrew its respect for intellectual property from the interest of not dying out of Africa. In the end, they had to leave the United States because the whole world was actually turning against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick wants to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u123	Thank you. I want to explain my voice. I'll vote in favour, though I don't like it. I'm sorry about the many shortcomings that have been made and the like. But I think it's business ethics.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u124	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Comrade Bernick, just a moment. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u125	Let me also say that the gentleman who spoke before me could look at some other cases that are much closer than those. But I agree, huge injustices have been committed, including in America by Indians, etc. But let's each look at ourselves, we've got a lot of things to wash. Let me just say that I'm happy if this law is passed. This is because I have full confidence in the leadership of the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry, their ability and their adaptation. All this murmuring was necessary for us, but otherwise they know well what they will do. In addition, I am very pleased that we will not have to accept the North Korean model of a non-Korean model or any other regime more "democratic" so that we can make our decisions in democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-17-SDZ3-Izredna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. So we can go to a full vote on the law. We're voting. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 66 Members and 46 Members present in the Chamber, they were in favour, 10 against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] I find that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has passed the law. Before I conclude this agenda item and the 13th extraordinary session, allow me to ask you to withdraw your documents from the table due to the fact that there is a public presentation of opinions in this room tomorrow. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., there is a public presentation of proposals for amendments. You're also invited by colleagues and colleagues. Until the next session, which begins on Tuesday 22, I welcome you very much. I hereby conclude today's 13th extraordinary session. Thank you so much and good night.
