ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u1	Everything is more or less ready for the start of the 17th extraordinary session. I mean, the amendment review is still being copied. He will certainly be ready to decide on the amendments in the second reading, so that we can now begin the consideration of the law, hear the introduction of the minister, hear the speech of the chairman of the committee, the performances of the parliamentary groups. In any case, I have made sure that the National Assembly will, of course, have before it a review of the amendments before it is decided, but I do not think that this will make it difficult for it to be done by the time the debate in the first part is concluded. First of all, before I start an extraordinary session, I take this opportunity to inform you that I have met with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, that we have consulted on many things, I think, mostly successfully. I would like to inform you in particular that the National Assembly will meet again at an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday 7 May at 10 a.m. We will put the insurance law on the agenda, and then that week the National Assembly will work normally within the framework of the working bodies and then meet again at an extraordinary meeting this afternoon between 14 and 16 to process, hopefully most of the agenda items left over from yesterday's closed meeting. That was the deal. I think that's a good deal. I understand that this decision to convene an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday is also satisfactory for the government as a proponent of the insurance law, so that everything is fine. Can I ask my colleagues and colleagues to place your cards in the voting machines so that you can have a review of your presence? Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues and colleagues! I begin the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened on the basis of Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you first of who will not cooperate with us today from colleagues and colleagues due to other obligations. These are colleagues of Brenčič, Grošelj, Kramberger, Malovršev, Diaci, Brejc, Bernik, Jelinčič, Barovic, colleague Zalokar Orazem, colleagues Zamernik, Peterle, Čebulj, Fabjan, colleague Janša is here, Rupar, Jakič, Beuermann and Spindler. Now I ask you to press the "quorum" button to determine the presence in the hall. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! [[49 present.]] The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this extraordinary meeting. I welcome the minister and his associates among us. First, we move on to the agenda. I'm asking for peace in the hall. With reference to the draft law on the public sector wage system, on 23 April of this year you received a agenda covering only one item of the agenda. I have not received any proposals to withdraw and extend the agenda. Does anyone want a word anyway? I'm guessing there's no one. We could therefore vote on the agenda. There are no other suggestions. We vote on the agenda for the extraordinary session. We're in the middle of a vote. Please. 53 present, 45 in, 3 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I'm guessing we've accepted the agenda. I propose that today the National Assembly shall work until the conclusion of this single agenda item. So we are moving on to the third defensive proposal for a bill on the pay system in the public sector. Before I give the floor to the representative of the government, allow me to thank, on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues, those of our colleagues who are members of the Committee on Internal Policy, who, in recent days, have already done a very responsible and very difficult job and have also done it and made it possible for the National Assembly to decide today. First of all, I invite the Minister, Dr. Council of Bohinca, Minister of the Interior, to present, on behalf of the Government proposing the law, a law for the third hearing. Please. But I ask everyone else for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the Members and Members! In front of you is the Public Sector Wage System Act, ready for third treatment. The text of the law, prepared for third reading, is supplemented to a large extent by additions resulting from intensive coordination with the social partners, which also led to the signing of a declaration on the extent to which the law is aligned with eight of the 12 representative unions of coordination of non-economic unions. The declaration submitted to the National Assembly was signed on the basis of the state of consistency on 23.4.2002. At that time, 51 of the current 53 members were coordinated with 8 unions, while two were not aligned. Later, the government submitted further amendments, which we also presented to the social partners, but did not later sign new declarations on the extent of coordination. Subsequently, Annex 2 was also harmonised on the day on which it was submitted as an amendment to the National Assembly. We estimate that the social partners have reached a high level of consensus, with the majority of the social partners, with eight out of twelve. In this respect, it is recalled that three of the four trade unions which did not sign the declarations had separate negotiations. Allow me to introduce some major changes or innovations in the third reading text below. When defining the public sector, i.e. the definition of which the law applies, a comprehensive approach is fully maintained, which does not exclude any person from the law. In this regard, in particular, let me remind you that we have proposed for RTV Slovenia a solution whereby they conclude a collective agreement and journalists will not negotiate with the government for the sake of maintaining autonomy and are also included in the group of professions in the field of culture and public information. Slovenia is thus given a law that for the first time completely regulates salaries in the public sector for all, without exception, from officials to all employees in the public sector. With regard to the classification of wage groups and subgroups and the determination of interrelationships, we have achieved significant harmonisation with the social partners on fundamental levels. The first level of harmonisation concerns branches of authorities and other national authorities. The second level are top professional professions, specialist doctors, university teachers, researchers, top cultural creators and journalists, and top-ranking officials. The third level is so-called state-owned professions, special powers officials such as police officers, soldiers, customs officers, guards, inspectors, several types, as well as university lecturers and nurses at this level. And level four, these are accompanying works in all parts of the public sector, where we are achieving an important unification. These are tasks such as financial and accounting, IT, human resources and other professional tasks, as well as administrative work in particular. With regard to the question of uniting the elimination of disproportionates, we assess that the law is achieving one of its key objectives, namely the elimination of imbalances and the establishment of a fairer relationship between comparable groups. Allow me a few words, Your Honor, about the financial effects of the law. The financial effects of the law will depend on the 2004 budgetary decision, the component of which is the so-called harmonisation decision on the amount of wage appropriations achieved through the agreement of the social partners, taking into account economic developments and public financial opportunities. The law has thus achieved one key objective, namely, public financial control, as each time the value of salary classes on the pay scale will depend on the economic and financial situation in the country and the related budgetary options. The law can be implemented with different amounts of wage in the budget and contributes to the flexibility of economic policy and ensures that one of the key budget costs is managed. In determining the harmonisation value and thus the salary scales for 2004 and for all the following years, the law undertakes to take two basic guidelines into account by 2008. The first is the direction for the gradual reduction of the range between the highest and lowest wages, with the aim of reaching a range of 1:10 in 2008. And secondly, this is the gradual application of the newly created relationship between the paying groups and the subgroups brought in by Annex 2, i.e. the elimination of imbalances, gradually, until 2008. The law also provides important incentive levers for public sector employees. It is linked to both emerging laws, labour relations and public servants, and includes the same standards for the protection of the rights and positions of public servants. In particular, it is worth noting that, following coordination with the social partners, we have introduced some additional motivation levers, such as the following: First of all, we allow the new arrangement to make progress for two pay grade, not the same as before, just for one, but only for the first and second promotions. This will especially encourage newly employed or younger public servants at the start of their careers. Secondly, there is an increase in the number of possible advances from the initial proposed seven, following coordination with the social partners, to 10 wage classes for jobs where it is not possible to obtain a title. Thirdly, the systems of vertical progress from the sectoral laws remain in force after the adoption of this law, and this law encourages the creation of career sub-systems in particular areas by means of a salary scale. Next, the volume of resources for work performance, from the current 3% under the current law, and in fact 2%, increases to a maximum of 5%, so to speak, is substantially increasing. We have also accepted the proposal of the social partners that part of the salary for work performance be paid twice a year, in July and December, and not only once, as originally proposed. For those who generate income on the market or achieve savings through rationalisation, there is a possibility of additional resources for work performance that employees can pay after obtaining the consent of the founder. The current number of more than 80 supplements decreases to a total of 8 types of supplements, which will mostly be regulated by a collective contract for the public sector. The minimum value of additives for less favourable working conditions and additives for risk and special loads is also eliminated. Only the total maximum volume of these additives is maintained at 15%. Allow me, Your Honor, to say a few more words about the enforcement of the law and its application. In order for the law to begin to be implemented in a manner and within the deadlines to ensure its entry into force from 1.1.2004, the text for third reading sets out fully how it is by hand and by means of means for individual executions. I'd only mention three of the most basic hands. The first is the deadline for the adoption of a common methodology for the classification of jobs and titles. This must be done by 30 November of this year. The second is the time limit for the adoption of a collective contract for the public sector, by establishing so-called indicative jobs and titles. This must be done by 30 March of next year, 2003, with an additional three-month extension in the law for the possible necessary implementation of the arbitration or reconciliation procedure with the social partners if the negotiations do not lead to a successful conclusion within the initial period. And in the third term, this is the time limit for the adoption of collective agreements of activities or certain professions. This is November 30, 2003, next year, collective agreements, which will directly include jobs and titles in wage classes, and will also make the last partner act and also meet all the conditions for the entry into force of the Act with 1.1.2004. Just this thought to conclude. Allow me to assess that the law we are adopting today constitutes a break in the current irregular state of public sector wages and is pursuing the fundamental objectives we have set in this regard. These are four to repeat: the integrity of wage regulation for the whole public sector; the elimination of imbalances and the establishment of new, fair relations for comparable professions and groups; and the third objective is the public financial control and transparency of the system and the fourth motivation lever for public sector employees. The adoption of the law is just a first step towards finalising this area and exceeding the situation in which wages have been shaped on the basis of sectoral approaches. It remains that, immediately after the adoption of the law, intensive social dialogue continues to be pursued in order to establish by consensus the implementing levels of the new pay system. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! I propose that, in the third reading, you support the amendments of the Government and the Committee on Internal Policy and the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Internal Policy. I invite the President to report, and once again thank you for the involvement of the members and members of the Committee and the President, that he has so well prepared the conditions for today's meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u4	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I wrote down that I should thank you, because this is going to be overheared. I would like to thank the experts, in particular the secretariat, trade unionists and others from the public concerned, and of course you, Members and Members of Parliament, who have endured until late at night. My address will be so brief that most of the content of the new law before us has been very well explained by the minister. At work, I must say that there was no difference, which could otherwise have been present in such delicate political regulation as wage regulation, there was no difference between opposition and position, and I must say that I am all colleagues and colleagues who have insisted to the end - we could have been encouraged, after all, by abstinence - especially thank you. At work, we were led primarily by the idea that this was the first step in the rehabilitation of the current chaos in this area. And of course, none of us who made decisions in one way or another thought that the adoption of this law would completely regulate the area - no, just as a first step. In doing so, I must say that she has given us good support and facilitated our work on the declaration of coordination between union partners and the government. So, I'll say, our decision-making was so much easier. Indeed, it is necessary to know that this also weighs the value of one job and the value of another. Decisions - you do not have a report on the table, so I must stress this in particular - decisions were almost unanimous, except for one amendment to the second annex to the law. And there's a large majority for what we then supported. By proposing that, after we have received the report and the review of the amendments, we should, in particular, stick to what the government has proposed and have supported the committee. However, I must say that we had to complete a few amendments to the government, in most cases I must commend again the secretariat, which had actually received these amendments only at the table at that time, on the suggestion of the secretariat, which closely monitored the text and helped us to formulate proper amendments. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the law be adopted, together with all the amendments which the Committee has endorsed or tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. Does the secretary want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I therefore give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First, a fellow magician asked for his word. A visor. He will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Please, mag. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u6	Dear Mr. President! Dear Minister, a representative of the government! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the National Assembly, we are witnessing an unusual and inappropriate procedure for the adoption of an important law, such as the Public Sector Wage System Act. The government insists that Parliament adopt legal solutions that are not coordinated between the social partners. Yesterday, we received a statement of coherence on the Internal Policy Committee, which made it clear that statements were not signed by trade unions representing half of the public sector employees, that a set of articles was partially harmonised, that more important articles were not harmonised. Furthermore, the debate has shown, of course, that this statement has also been written two days earlier and that the subsequent amendments and, of course, the individual amendments of Members are either inconsistent or there is no guarantee that they are in line with the social partners. This is an unusual and inappropriate procedure for the adoption of laws. The adoption of a law that is not coordinated between the social partners to a certain extent and a law that does not take into account the real possibilities of financing by the Slovenian economy will be a poor journey to address this important issue I have pointed out the need for an adequate public sector wage regime when the state budget is adopted annually, as the state budget allocates significantly higher public sector wages each year. The growth index for these wages is significantly higher than the gross domestic product growth index and the economic wage growth index. In particular, the aim of the law is to remedy the unfair situation between salaries of comparable professions in the public sector and to establish a stimulating public sector pay system that will burden the budget in accordance with our financial options. This law is part of a package of laws governing relations in public administration, whose common aim is to make public administration more rational, more efficient and more qualitative. With the regulation of the public sector wage system, it would be impossible to practice so far when individual areas of the public sector from the government have chosen to raise wages for themselves and, consequently, the relationship between comparable professions in the public sector has deteriorated, resulting in a chain reaction and a number of requirements for raising public sector wages. Such practices have brought about certain criminal relationships between salaries of comparable professions within the public sector, as some areas in the public sector are more influential, stronger, more media-efficient and, of course, have made it easier to exercise their interest and have achieved results. The result of faster growth in wages in the economy has also distorted the relationship with wages in the economy, a source of funding, which has consequently stimulated the departure of successful and trained staff from the economy to non-economic. I have mentioned only part of the reasons why wage ratios in the public sector need to be properly regulated as soon as possible, in accordance with the possibilities of the Slovenian economy. In the developed countries, a considerable amount of time has passed and a great deal of effort has been made to create effective ways of regulating the most important relations between employers and workers, as is the case with the public sector. Social dialogue has been established and developed. It is to negotiate, coordinate and find solutions between those most affected by solutions. If these solutions are not fully achieved, at least a certain degree of coordination is reached, which may form the basis for the legislative branch of the Authority to decide on the solutions. Our government does not take these established principles and forces into account Parliament's consideration and adoption of a law on a system of public sector wages, which foresees solutions when there is no final agreement and coordination between employers and employees or between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the NGOs. Obviously, the government is not up to a stable wage system in the public sector, but it is only saving the budget because of the annex that enters into force 30.4.2002. It is becoming increasingly evident that the law will no longer bring order into a wage relationship, this is a transparent, developed and profit structure, at least for the main professional groups, an appropriate arrangement for the promotion and incentive of successful work, but the government is only trying to avoid paying last year's agreed allowances for schoolchildren or after a collective agreement on education and education. In addition, it is clear that the current law and regulation in the public sector no longer corresponds, since more than 40 rules govern wages in this area. This is due to the financial uncontrollability of this system and the lack of transparency. The proposed law, which is now before us, does not solve these problems, which is likely to result in a new wave of sentences, new pressure on the source of funding, new pressure on the budget and, of course, new pressure on the Slovenian economy. The representatives of economic unions are confident that the law of budget commitment will increase. As we have seen from the Minister's opening statement, it is clear that we will see the financial implications only in the context of the 2004 budget debate. The unknown is a lot, the rush is huge, and in such situations, usually bad solutions are taken. The amendments of the committee that were adopted yesterday at a rather unpleasant time, this is at night, in the generally missed situation, and also many other amendments clearly indicate that there is no serious coordinated agreement between the social partners and that each is looking for a solution in its own way for some groups. This isn't the right way. In the Social Democratic Party, we do not welcome such an approach, we do not support and propose that the Government make an additional effort to harmonise it, to wait some time with this law to achieve coherence, and then we all adopt the necessary public sector wage system law together. In short, the moment is wrong, the moment is too early and we therefore call on the government to complete the coordination between the social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. He gets the word of a fellow Peca behind you. Mr Peče will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. And I'm going to put my word behind him to my colleague Stemberger. But first, my friend Peca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! The pace of the introduction of a government dictatorship in the current mandate, the mandate of the National Assembly, is reflected in the achievement of the objectives and activities adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal and the Government's wish in the last 30 days. In the last 30 days, we have collectively, as a national assembly, supported the law on public finances, the law on state administration, the law on labour relations, the law on the system of public sector wages. Of all these activities we do and blindly listen to the government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we are only legitimizing, according to our assessment, a government dictatorship in full, within the public sector, and, of course, because the public sector represents a relationship to other sectors, particularly the economy, we are also legitimising future macroeconomic policy. If we set the pace of introduction in March and April, we could, at the time of the truth, at the request of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to negotiate with the social partners last week when the competent minister, Dr. Rado Bohinc, at the conclusion of the discussion in the second reading of the said Act, quote, "proposed a procedural decision on the third reading debate in the sense that paragraph 164, paragraph 2 was applied". And in this sense, the National Assembly supported with a large majority the proposal to withdraw trade unions or those who would like to influence the law in any way. Influence the law in the form that the law would be longer-term and that it would not have as disastrous consequences as we estimate in the Slovenian National Party on the entire macroeconomic system in our country. The draft law, according to our assessment, is destroying the labour market in the public sector. However, since the public sector is not isolated and its impact on the rest of our country is exceptional, it disrupts the functioning of the market, at least on one side of the labour force, including supply and demand throughout the balance of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that this is one of those major mistakes in the chain made by the Slovenian government because it feels self-sufficient and unique. In addition, we estimate that we will take a step deeper, as we will achieve with the possible adoption of this law that the price will no longer reflect productivity and wages. We believe that the law will have four fundamental consequences. I'm not going to talk about the reasons and the conditions under which the law arose. I think that the remaining parliamentary groups will be circumcised in this regard, at least on behalf of speaking for the speaker, of how they will do when they vote on their matters. We believe that the first consequence of the unrest in the public sector will be. Perhaps all of you know that they are in sight or are predicting sentences. Even before the law is passed, sentences to this law are predicted. According to our assessment, we are also achieving structural imbalances, both in the public sector in the area of wages and in other sectors within our country, and one of the most important, negative issues the law will have for itself is the legalisation of spiral inflation. It is precisely because of the productivity ratio and the wages that we do not have in this law in proportion that the productivity of the work is increasing, the assessment of work is increasing, the price of work is rising and wages is increasing, but we are cementing the system on the one hand and the system on the other, which will help us through investment, through public consumption to the final stage when inflation and, when inflation is due to the imbalance between the two main arguments or instruments, that is productivity and wages, we are experiencing spiral inflation. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and those Members of the National Assembly who support this law are also legally bound by this law. And, in the final stage, that I won't be too long, because, because I think it's about this law to oppose it, like blowing into the wind, we all know that you're going to accept it today, it's according to our assessment that the creation of clientelism. If so far there has been a rule that the clientele or cream tops in our society are justifiable, I emphasise, rightly, the representatives of the judiciary, the legislative branch of the authorities and the executive branch of the authorities will now complete this cream with their salaries. We have given a position on the wage ratio at second reading. The government obviously wants more classes or a greater gap between minimum and maximum within our country. The game that plays and lands from 13 to 1, to 12 to 1, is according to our assessment of the farce. But people have chosen to listen and live by your directives. We will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Peca for the views of the Slovenian National Party Group. Mr Štemberger will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. Does any other group want to follow him? [[He does.]] New Slovenia, Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. If we said in the second reading in the Party of Youth Slovenia that we support the bill in principle on the condition that the government negotiates with trade unions and reaches the broadest consensus, today we can no longer talk about the support of the law in the Party of Youth. The events of the last two days have convinced us that the law is adopted for better reasons, but not because it would in a fair and efficient way lay the foundations of wage regulation in the public sector. If that were the case, there would be no such opposition between employees. If so, no wonder. The ten-year wrong policy and the failure of certain groups, many times in order to gain favor with budgetary money, must be remedied by two extraordinary meetings, 72 hours apart. The applicants argue that the law means transparency, but there is no clear answer to the question of what will be the future payload. There is also no answer as to whether this law allows wage growth in the public sector and the economic sector to be levelled. Much has been said about the interdependence of these two sectors. If this law is adopted, it will certainly be amended more than once. And that's just before it's put into effect. This will only serve the government to improve negotiating venues. This is not fair, though it is true that certain groups use similar tactics. And we oppose this in the Young Slovenia Party. I'm sure the law has a lot of provisions that are in place and are part of this law. Even the fact that the Law of Refunds over 50 rules governing the area of wages is certainly progress, but the law itself as a whole, as mentioned in the Party of Young Slovenia, is not appropriate and unacceptable for at least most of those who are directly affected by the law. That's why we won't support him. The biggest farce is certainly the classification of journalists of RTV Slovenia in the law on salaries in the public sector. It is clear to everyone that the media are those who generate public opinion. They've been creating it today, like they've been doing for 10 years. And so far the current of power has had no problems with them because they represented the wind in the sails of a government boat. Now that they have begun to point out mistakes, they have to be warned out loud, including those types of purchases of government aircraft, but now they need to be placed somehow on "strikes", they need to be checked, and if not done otherwise, at least through wages. Members of the Young Slovenia Party strongly oppose this and we believe that this is a big step back in democracy. It appears that several generations will have to be replaced, both for politicians and for journalists, so that ours, unfortunately, will still be a green democracy, at least a little mature.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. The colleague Majda Zupan will present the views of the New Slovenia Group of Members and will present the views of the LDS Group of Members, colleague Lavrinc. First of all, as I said, my colleague Zupanov. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! The government's got hands and it seems they're going to catch him, too. She's going to win before the day of the rebellion. During the last week, intensive negotiations with representative unions were successful with only eight, i.e. only two thirds. The four unions did not comply, but they represent 75,000 employees. A three-part Economic and Social Council, composed of government representatives, employers and trade unions, has also met, but the meeting itself has shown that differences in trade unions are large and largely inconsistent. Even at the press conference, they couldn't get past the payroll. Because RTV journalists are among state employees, and not everyone else is. In our parliamentary group, we support their efforts to improve the proposed law by supplementing the provision that the public institution of RTV Slovenia is not part of the public sector. We believe that RTV is a special, national institution and that the inclusion of journalists in the law on salaries in the public sector would be a threat to their mission, and this is also a control over all branches of government, and that this would direct the press to the state, which could also put pressure on the independent, objective and political neutral reporting that we expect from journalists. In the implementation of the Minister, however, we have heard that a solution has been found in this regard, but we do not think it is right for journalists to remain so-called civil servants. The country's desire to implement this law is incredible because it wants to align wages between comparable professions in very different areas of social activity with the bill. The 65-grade pay scale appears to be made on the basis of small steps of 4% of the difference, which may lead to large conflict relations, but does not encourage economically supported progress. While the gap between the highest and lowest wages has been reduced during the negotiations, it will continue to reach a 1:10 ratio in 2008, but it will also not create the best mood among employees or ensure effective cooperation between employees, which can also be shown in the final stage of economic development, which may be slower due to major conflicts. More than a concern is the fact that at the bottom of the salary scale there are as many as 15 lowest wage classes that do not give employees a chance of decent survival. The low salaries of such a large number of civil servants certainly reduce the efficiency of the whole public sector. In doing so, we must not forget that wages in the economy are 10% to 20% higher than in the economy and that the adoption of this law will certainly reflect the increased wages in the public sector, even though employers remain in the general definition that this should not happen. The urgency with which this law is adopted and the lack of alignment between the bulk of the unions cannot be a good road map for the life of the law, which aims to pay more than 150,000 employees in the public sector. The government appears to still have the power to bring the proposal to port by means of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. However, the question is whether the battle against the uncontrollable situation in the pay system will also be fought, whether the imbalance will be eliminated, or whether public financial controls will be achieved. In our Group of Members, we believe that this will not be possible with this law. Therefore, the Members of New Slovenia will not cooperate and we will not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague Zupanov. When you said you wouldn't cooperate, you probably didn't predict obstruction? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. My colleague Lavrinc will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, followed by his colleague Potrč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I'll probably be a little shorter. Our Group will support the adoption of this law, as it is aware that it is behind the majority of the public sector employees, of course through the representative trade unions involved in the negotiations, which, in our opinion, have contributed very much to the fact that our decisions today are also much easier. We will also support the law because the current situation in this area is in fact so bad that it can hardly be worse. Various smaller and larger groups, in one way or another, by means of entirely legitimate and legal means, have forced the benefits of paying for their groups and, of course, have brought the system into a certain system. So every step in the direction of regulating this situation is, in our view, a big step. Foreign experience also teaches that, in the field of the public sector, it is not possible to regulate the public sector system alone, but wages in this area. In our opinion, the law is good. Good because it contains what will be paid for all, for officials and for public servants. This, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't had this in our country so far. It contains provisions on how wages will be fixed, contains provisions on progress, contains provisions on additives and, most importantly, a process of changing ranges, in our view. So this is referred to in Article 33, which I think is also a kind of acquisition in our legislation, a gain in the direction of a better social partnership. The law will also allow for better transparency and comparability, not only within the public sector, but also within the public sector as a whole of the economy's visas. We will also support the law because the warnings from the economy are more than serious that this country needs something that will help it to manage public wages in the public sector, and this unquestionably brings this law. We are not normative idealists to believe that the law, as anyone who accepts it, would want to, will regulate it in its entirety and everything, but we are convinced that it is a good basis for us to slowly, step by step, to come into some solid public sector wage system, which will also be financially manageable. We are even convinced that the law is also in favour of those employees and trade unions who have not participated in the coordination, as it will certainly prevent overcoming on the left and lay down the rules of the game for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Comrade Lavrinz. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by colleague Potrč, behind him by colleague Celigoj on behalf of DeSUS and finally by colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It seems that we have recently been united in the assessment of the weaknesses of the current system and also in the uniform assessment of the needs for the adoption of the law to the greatest extent possible. Today, I would say, given the responsibility we have to make, how difficult things are to decide, we are trying to do so in a variety of ways, given the role and position we have in the National Assembly. I'd like to say the following. The importance of the adoption of the law seems very important to me. Not because it would solve all the issues, not because it would be ideal and would not leave any more, but because it would provide a basis for the gradual regulation of extremely difficult wage problems in the public sector, both in terms of mutual relations, absolute numbers, as well as in terms of public consumption and comparability of wages with the material sector, where there is a greater direct dependence on successes and results from market conditions. The questions were asked why only now, why this has not been done before. I think the questions are well founded, but at least now that we have this opportunity and when we have come half a step towards the result, we should start by adopting and enforcing this law. The responsibility in this is great, Members of the National Assembly, the governments that have drafted the law and I would say in particular, the unions that have actively participated in the drafting of this law, responsible in a positive way, in their willingness to make their determination, their influence, their knowledge, in the face of the very big problems of wage regulation, their ability to find the right solutions. Given the different situation we have in the decision-making system in the National Assembly, the current situation can be assessed in terms of whether we are optimistic or pessimistic and whether the glass is half full or half empty. Because, as it can be said, little has been achieved, it can also be said that very much has been achieved. Nevertheless, we have achieved with eight unions since the 12th coordination practically on all issues, except for two. We have managed to ensure much social dialogue. We have managed to fulfil the commitment the government has made to the negotiators to inform the national assembly of the results of the negotiations and of the open issues before the decision is taken. And I think it suggests that we highlight these achievements. Unfortunately, they're not perfect, they're not 100%. I'm sorry. I'd prefer it if it were different. We do know, however, that for not being 100 per cent, there is not only a reason for the government and only at the pace of work, but also for the various interests that existed in addressing these issues, and I think it is right to be correct and honest in this direction. I wish that after the adoption of the law - the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will support it - intensive negotiations and social partnership will continue. Both the trade unions that have already cooperated and the unions, who, for reasons they themselves have estimated, have not been willing to cooperate so far. I would advise the government, and as far as we are concerned, in the United List, we will do everything we can to direct the government in this direction to do its best to open up a field of interaction, preferably with all unions and not in part, with each union individually. Partial bargaining with each union is particularly difficult for such a complex issue to produce common results. I hope that the continuation of such work will remove the bad taste we still have so that a larger round of trade unions could not be included in coordination. I believe that many things cannot be delayed. Law errors can also be rectified and, above all, these matters can be regulated in the formulation of decisions relating to trade union and government bargaining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The opinion of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! The DeSUS Group welcomes the proposal for a bill on the public sector wage system, which we have today in our third reading. This is a product which, despite a number of shortcomings and comments, is probably the most likely to be achieved at this point. The bill was led by a difficult path, agreements, compromises between wishes and possible and so diverse interests. The lawmakers were also under pressure from time to time, which was just a burden on the work. Yet, he does have a large majority of those who are also appointed by law. However, it would probably be very difficult to adopt and obtain a law that would certainly satisfy all 150 000 employees in this area by transposing the law from month to month or year. However, partial solutions in such a sensitive area have certainly never, so they have never produced good results. We are convinced that this umbrella law, such as it is, also with apparent concerns and shortcomings, is at the same time a solid basis for adopting sub-legislative rules to further regulate internal relations between stakeholders or professional groups. Our Group of Members will support the bill and also the amendments, which are also supported by the Home Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Now the fourth government parliamentary group, the Slovenian People's Party, the parliamentary group or its present Members will support the proposal for a bill on the public sector wage system. We are convinced that this is a necessary and necessary regulation that will also have an important impact on the macroeconomic situation in the country. One week ago, in my role as leader of the parliamentary group here, I stressed that it was actually the adoption of this law, that it would have a significant impact in general on certain macroeconomic trends in Slovenia. When we adopt this law today, we keep thinking about wages in the private sector. And once again, we call on the government to approach this acid apple as soon as possible with the great effort it has made when it has proposed this law, and to prepare a pay system for private sector employees as soon as possible. There are some arguments that lead us to support this law. In the first and second reading of the law, only two MPs voted against it. It is clear from the statement, only two members. So that, despite some other performances, the voting did not show any opposition to the law. The Member shall object when voting, not only when speaking. It is very important for us to stress that Article 52 of the current law in the third reading is proof that it was absolutely necessary for something to be done in a series of years. More than 50 laws, sub-laws, decisions and regulations regulated salaries in the public sector, more than 50. It's called chaos. We will also support the amendment not to mention all of these more than 50 rules, but to make it clear that the law in force will be all of these regulations, this mountain of compensation paper. Second argument. The law brings concepts, models, principles in the first basic articles on the basis of which salaries will be established in the public sector. It may not be known to the public that the key is Article 5, which speaks of the composition of wages, basic salaries and the coordination of basic salaries. On the basis of the introductory provisions, procedures will only be initiated to determine salaries for individual classes. And, of course, even with the elements of social partnership. Here we would like to stress our view that the National Assembly, by its decision to adopt this law on a rapid basis, has not for the first time entered into social dialogue, into the sphere of social partnership. This happens rarely when the government, unions and employers are generally unable to agree. In our view, Parliament's entry into this dialogue has been responsible and has not given up in second reading and has not adopted some amendments that would in fact undermine the concept of existing solutions. But there's something else we'd like to highlight. Some fellow Members have already pointed out the importance of Article 33. This refers to the process of changing the ranges between the highest and lowest wages or the relationship between paying groups and paying subgroups. For the law, when it is adopted, we are sure that it will receive majority support - it will clearly say the following. The number of pay grade classes on the pay scale, the relationship between pay grade and the highest and lowest pay grade for each payee subgroup, namely Annexes 1 and 2 of this Act, may only be changed in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Act. This is said, since the entry into force of this law, if we can be a little sharper, we can say that pre-election voting in the public sector without any changes to the law will no longer be possible. And that is the great progress of this law. That is also why the Group of Members will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I have not received written submissions to the debate, and therefore the debate on the bill is entirely limited to five minutes if we want to discuss Members and Members. Who wants to discuss the bill in its entirety? Because no, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 26.4.2002, with some corrections to be notified at the time of consideration of the individual amendments. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 2, of which the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia is the proposer. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Stemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. The inclusion of journalists in public sector wage law would jeopardise the performance of the tasks imposed by law on the public institution of RTV Slovenia. In this way, journalists would become directly dependent on the state or government, contrary to the modern concept of journalism, which also plays a supervisory role over all three branches of government. The government would be able to exert pressure on the independent and objective reporting of RTV Slovenia journalists by setting the level of journalists' salaries and regulating them. The support of the international press association and the European Union of Journalists as regional organisations that fully support the society of journalists in Slovenia, which opposes the provisions we now propose in the law on the public sector wage system, also confirms that journalists do not belong to the public service law. I therefore invite all Members and Members to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u24	Thank you very much. In the Social Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the Youth Party, because we are convinced that only independent journalism is a condition and a good way to make this work professional and that this work is what we all want impartially. We believe that this is a step towards this goal. We believe, and from everyday events in particular in recent days, we have seen a number of pressures, such and different, on journalists. We can see that everyone, including former politicians, is much more familiar with journalism than journalists themselves. And we think that the entanglement of journalists into some pay grade and, of course, also into some relationship and thus indirect financial influence and their work is a poor journey for their independent work. The fact that politics is very intense here also shows that, after the appointment of members of the RTV Council, when it turns out that somehow the ruling coalition has also broken the laws and guaranteed it in this world, it is said from the members appointed by this Parliament, a politically incorrect picture, such as the actual image in this national assembly, and was also an image in the last national elections, because it appointed four representatives of the coalition and only one of the opposition. Which means that it has thus determined that only 20% of the opposition in this national assembly, which of course we do not agree with, is the practice so far and the only acceptable practice is to get the seats of the five most powerful parliamentary groups or the five most powerful parties who have reached the outcome of the national elections. In short, the amendment goes in the direction that we all probably want together, that's independent and quality journalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Wait a minute! Mr. Lavrinz, did you want a replica or a debate? A replica or a debate, Mr. Lavrinc? It's a debate. Then Mrs Shirca, Mr Lavrinc and Mrs Zupanov for the debate. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u26	In view of the decision and the knowledge of what the proposer actually wished to achieve with the amendment to Article 2, I would like to ask the applicant for an explanation. If, within the body, more than 2,000 employees were to be exposed only to journalists on RTV Slovenia with explanations, as we have heard, I ask what this would mean for others who are not journalists, as in the explanatory notes, who are employed in the information programmes of RTV Slovenia, but who have different status, editors or other professions throughout the public service. Are they then exposed to you or are guardians not subject to the principle of autonomy that is described in the explanatory memorandum? In short, the answer to whether or not it means the elimination of only one segment of employees - what it means for the fate of other employees in RTV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Stemberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u28	I'd like to answer. This means that we really only shelled journalists because they are the ones that have the greatest impact on public opinion creation and we want them to act independently of the policy that governs. Otherwise, in the beginning, we tried to peel off all the employees. We proposed an amendment yesterday on a committee that would have been said that part of the public sector under this law was not a public institution of RTV Slovenia. This would mean that all employees would be exposed, and unfortunately this amendment was not supported by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Two replicas to Mr. Stemberger's execution. First Mr. Mogue, then Mr. Battelli. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself object to these allegations that we only get independent journalists by expelling them, because by identifying the judges in this payroll system, and not least of all of us Members, Ministers and everyone else, then if we adopt this law, they will put them here, they will say that then we are dependent, and then the journalists will be independent if they do not go up. This thing can't hold. But it seems to me that it is right, in my opinion - at least I will support - that the system of wages, which is now being given, is transparent, for everyone to see, for the whole public, also for colleagues from RTV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u31	Thank you very much. And a replica of Mr. Battelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It seems to me that the dilemma that has been raised is the answer to this question in the union. Those who are members of a press union or journalists' unions fall under this category, and there the press union, as well as society, has its own rules and also includes various editors or publicists and so on. I'm not quite sure this could be a solution, but I think that's it. So, a splinter, a discriminator, or whatever, is probably a union membership. But the union has its own rules, which includes who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. And now I give the floor to Mr Lavrinc, and then it is Mrs Zupanov's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u34	First, one small warning to be taken with understanding. The review of the amendments was under time pressure, so to speak, in time distress, so of course it is not properly recorded everywhere how the government defined itself and how the mother's working body was defined. For example, in a specific case, neither the government nor the labour force supported such an amendment. Why not? The mother body supported the Government's amendment, which you have on page 5, which is that the posts of public servants in the public office of RTV Slovenia will be classified in wage classes with a special collective contract to be concluded on behalf of the employer by the Director-General of the Public Institute and on behalf of the employees by a representative union in a public institution. In our view, this is a better solution than what is proposed here. Of course, also for the reasons stated earlier by colleague Mogo, this is that all those who receive salaries from public funds must be in this law, both officials and public workers, and of course this also applies to journalists.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. In our New Slovenia Group, we support the amendment of young Slovenia because we want, as I said before, that journalists are independent of the state or government, because only in this way can they ensure political neutral reporting and representation of the interests of civil society and that their mission will not be compromised, which also means exercising a supervisory function, a supervisory role over all three branches of government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u38	Also, according to our assessment, the purpose of the amendment is solely one, and this is a separation of the daily policy from the part of journalism. Given that the purpose and purpose of the Slovenian National Party, or to see the role of journalists, is to ensure that their reporting is correct and unladen by government parties or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we will, of course, also support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u40	I also support the intention that all these professions should be independent and also the intention that reporting should be in the public interest, meaning that it should be separate from day-to-day policy. However, the solution proposed by young people in Slovenia, in the text they received, they say, from the society of journalists, does not fully guarantee this. And that, of course, is another problem. This law, by establishing a system of wage relations, establishes some comparability and transparency, but does not mean that the government will have a yoke over all those who regulate it. If that were the case, then you should first raise your voice in that part, and the pieces regulate the salaries. If the judiciary were at any point, therefore, subject to this problem of independence - and this argument should apply to purely all professions - then we should start shouting and screaming at that point first. I believe that by this law - at least I have not heard from the types of judges, unless we are talking about height - there is no threat to the crucial assumption of the judiciary that it is independent of Parliament and of daily policy. Another popular argument is that journalists in the public service of RTV Slovenia work in this special public interest. That's right. Therefore, they also have some kind of special tax to be recovered by the State, which is pointed directly at the giro account of the public institution. But I would like to tell you that in the public interest, based, of course, on individuality and complete freedom, all cultural institutions are based. Drama works in the public interest and is not in this Chamber, which would say that Drnovšek is interested in what the Drama programme will be. On the contrary. Or that it is in the interest of anyone to interfere with the Opera program, the program - say - Philharmonic. I am well aware of the 1980s when this autonomy was established, and I would hope to say that there was more courage in the artistic professions for this need for freedom, individualism and later, of course, after regulating these things with appropriate budget shares. From this point of view, you can believe that some top-notch violinist doesn't like to hear that he's a government official. It's not, but it's paid for by some comparable system right now. What I'm going to say is, I'm going to encourage me to stop by, but there's a kind of duality of proponents. If we really thought about it, then we wouldn't go through the press professions in those charts tops. This should then be fully excluded. I'm risking some serious blood, but I hope to say that - let's say - some professor from the Ljubljana Academy or the Maribor Academy - I won't say easily - but I can teach, at least a small number of people, at universities around the world. A few players or directors can blend into large theaters around the world. This moment does not come to mind by anyone in the public service of RTV who could be comparable to those names that we have and could take over some important broadcasts on the RAI, on the BBC and so on, but still we have to allow this option with a similar argument. I just wish those professions were so good, because it would actually be in favor of what this system is set up to do. But if we delete it in Article 1 out, then it is also necessary to delete it in all these tables, annexes and so on because it makes no sense. Why would we, say, secure a good position there and go out at first? That, I'll say, is, uh, kind of a two-faced thing. Thus, this amendment has an explanation that is worth listening to, but it does not contribute to what we would like to serve in Slovenia. Not to mention that the public office would then be pushed into a situation that would apply only to journalists, but not to other employees. Again, I will say, it is in some way a problem of some kind of dichotomy and this unfortunate director of RTV Slovenia would make it even more difficult to do business if one part were subject to the rules of this law and the other part should be negotiated differently. That's certainly not good. This basic idea is better if Parliament decides to do so - I will not say raise your hand from the public institution of RTV Slovenia, but to leave it entirely to some other way of solving it. But this will not escape his responsibility; since he is the founder of this public institution, he will have to say it in full, and then there will be problems again. So the solution, which is a bit of a stranger, and the amendment brings a lot more, so it seems very problematic to fire yourself with who's for independence and who's not for independence of journalism, because it's all about other things, because, I'm going to say, this public institution is primarily dependent on the level of the subscription, which is defined elsewhere and in a different way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. First, Mr Kremjar has a replica, then Mr Gaber's debate. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to, but I have to, I have to. Kolga Školč is - and I think that in just one segment he is wrong or I look at the matter a little differently, in a work where he talked about what our artists can undoubtedly do around the world and what teachers at schools can do in some other universities. This certainly is true, but this is not a valuable comparison that RTV journalists could not do this because they are comparatively Europeanly worse than some other professions. That's not what this is about. It's about the specifics of the profession, and it's pointless that we're talking about this right now. However, it has to be said that we will not come to the conclusion that many of the broadcasts they are preparing on RTV are still being broadcast in other programmes, that in many of the competitions broadcasts prepared by Slovenian RTV have received important awards and so on. So only in this segment is it not comparable when teachers can teach in Vienna and journalists cannot work on ÖRF. There is a slightly different story here, I object only to this part of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Stemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Well, I'd like to replicate the speaker. It was a talk about employees in public institutions of national importance: Drama, Opera, National Gallery. It has to be said that people working in Drama or Opera don't do TV logs, they don't make public opinions, and this comparison with journalists doesn't hold up. Speakers spoke about the judiciary. The judiciary is an independent branch of power already after the constitution and judges are already there protected from the government. So I don't think we can compare these professions with that of journalists.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber, replica, then three more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u46	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Of course, we are talking about wages today and we are talking about money. To talk about money and to talk about wages in the last days can be seen by a number of arguments that refer to all other things, except they do not want to talk about the issue of wage relations. We have heard that some things need to be arranged differently because otherwise the battle will be broken the Constitution of this country. Today we listen to stories about autonomy and independence of journalists who also have this independence guaranteed by law. I would like to draw attention to this and to say that I do not intend to support this addition that the National Assembly with the supplement to which colleague Max Lavrinc has already pointed out in Article 13 that level of autonomy in determining salaries in the public pay system required for a particular profession, i.e. also for journalists, gives. It gives it by writing down that the posts of public servants in a public office are classified in the wage classes by a specific collective contract concluded on behalf of the employer by the Director-General of the Public Service and on behalf of employers by a representative union in the same public institution. The same will be true in other professions. If it's the opposite, then let me add to what's already been said, just the university. The university is also autonomous after the stop. If the fact that she is paid by this law meant that she is no longer autonomous, then of course we should not adopt this law. Since we all know this is not the case, we will support this law at this point when it comes to the university. And there is no wise reason for us to be consistent in doing otherwise at this point. Of course, there may be a third reason. However, not those concerned with independence, the autonomy of institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Three more replicas. In order, Mr Moge, Mrs Majnik and Mr Školč. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Almost everything was told by my colleague Gaber. I also think personally that by this law and by including journalists on RTV Slovenia, by placing them in law, we protect them. I think it is right that the applicant has placed journalists at the level of university professors, in the ranks of the highest physicians, in the ranks of all others; that is to say, he has placed them at the top of all these demanding professions. And it seems to me that the removal of these journalists from this column could be politically exploited and accounted for by the illegal coverage of the highest level, i.e. the amount of which, or the class in which the journalist is included, such a journalist has obtained personal income in such a way and in a different way beyond the statutory coverage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Majnikov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The promoters of the amendment are probably journalists of the internal political editorial of RTV Slovenia, according to the letters we received. This is a really large group of journalists, but within all journalists they represent a small part of journalists. I'll explain why I won't support this amendment. The curator or librarian of a public institution, which is also a public institution of special importance, prepares an exhibition and can be included in the public sector's salary system. A journalist reporting on this exhibition should not be, even though a member of the public agency is of special importance. These institutions, as we've heard many times today, are quite something. I wonder if there is a predicted dependence and objective reporting of knowledge and ethics or money. If independence dictates money, then the least problem is to adopt a new law and change RTV Slovenia from a public institution to a profitable institution. Finally, my little comment. If the press were now dependent on politics, then so much manure on the government, which is currently in power, would not have spilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Skolcz has reported to the replica, but he's cancelling. Replica - also Mr Drobnič and then Mr Vnučec. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to replicate to Mr Mohet that this is actually a protection. I don't think journalists need that kind of protection. This is a patronage of some sort, and we know that the world and all the other institutions that have recently participated in this tactic of a good patron. I think that a journalist, like the one who is supposed to represent the right seventh branch of power or the fourth branch of authority, must be so defined in all respects or be given such an opportunity to do so. You know, the different differences are that those who are most qualified for such tasks are not actually responsible, but responsible, or are given this thing to play an important role in cutting their wings in different ways. This is a particularly sensitive matter, so it is not the right protection to place them as some kind of civil servant. That's why I'm going to support such an amendment. Innovation, as well as quality, will probably suffer from this. Why should Slovenians or citizens of this Slovenia have inquality public media, public television and then others better. Then there will be a negative selection. Absolutely! And I don't mean to say that there's something worse on public television. But let's not work this way to make something like this happen. This is important, and I stress this and this amendment makes sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Grandchild Replica, please. You're giving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Comrade Petty Officer, you told the press. It's only about journalists on RTV Slovenia. Thus, the other journalists do not belong to this rank in order to be protected, but only these must be protected. And that's why I don't think it's right. As soon as someone burns out of this outside, they'll follow the possibility for others, and we'll have one system in place, instead of one system in order, just like we've had before.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u55	Replica Mr. Janša, then Mr. Bajuk. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I want to replicate my colleague Mohet. The arguments for and against this supplement were cited here. There may be some rational core in both, but it must be realized that we are adopting a law that provides for wage relations for officials and public servants. We already have that fact in mind that journalism somehow does not fall within this category. It really doesn't belong. At least so far, I think there has been a unified view in Slovenia that journalists are not, not officials, not civil servants, not social political workers anymore, not journalists on public television. Very unconvincing, Comrade Moge, but it sounds like an argument that we're protecting these journalists with this. It's unconvincing because the press are against it. From history, we have very poor experience of protection in cases where someone who didn't want to protect you was protected. It was sometimes said otherwise, Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u58	I just want to ask one question to all those who are now talking about how we will protect journalists in RTV Slovenia. Because they come from the same sources as our colleagues who voted for a member of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board two days ago, Director of the Information Office. How are we going to protect them from the supervisory board? I would like to ask if they have any such proposal on this. This concerns the credibility or credibility of these statements, how will we protect journalists by becoming civil servants and having all the legal apparatus behind them and above them - how will we protect them from the supervisory board, which includes officials responsible for creating a beautiful image of the Slovenian government?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Moge. Then Mr Battelli's debate awaits.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u60	One more time. So this only speaks of journalists in public institutions. Everyone else who's on the market just gets paid whatever they get. That's right. But personally, I think that some journalist who's in a public institution would have had - cartoons - twice the salary of the president of the country to start confusing stories about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Tiny. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u62	Mr. Mogue! I have to tell you, I was targeting reporters in RTV. I didn't talk about other people because it's not the subject of law at all. But the very law on civil servants' salaries shows that it will be for such employees and we know how people in public and state services work: according to the principles of subordination. I'm sure that's how they're gonna do it, and that's how it's gonna work. And if we go down like this, we'll just have journalists according to the principles of subordination. Now - okay! And there'll be pay. And according to your term, certain protections will also have protection. Thank you so much for your protection, I don't think journalists need that kind of protection!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Two more replicas: Mr Janša, then Mr Lavrinc. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u64	My colleague Moze made another argument here, which is why he is supposed to vote against this supplement. He says it's not acceptable for journalists to have more wages than the President of the Republic. Yeah, that's what it was said, buddy. After that cut we got, of course, that wouldn't be possible. Unfortunately, after this cut, top officials will not even be able to achieve other professions, which they achieve in comparable countries - top researchers, artists, university professors and so on. Here we put them in a much lower ranking, it's somewhere between, say, upper administration. But that's another topic, and now we're talking about this amendment. In the world, it is perfectly normal for the best journalists to receive a much higher salary than the presidents of their countries, as well as the best economists, artists, athletes. This is perfectly normal, but I don't know why it would be such a sin for us. If we want society to function normally, then we have to let it work. And with the law, such as the one we are talking about today, it is necessary to regulate the relationship actually in this narrower segment of the country, the executive branch and also the public service, where journalists are, forgive, do not belong, whether it is journalists in newspapers or national television.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Lavrinc, then Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u66	Yes, this is, in my opinion, a more serious discussion of whether they belong or not to this law on television tonight to fellow Members of the press. Look, it's public funds. A long-standing desire was to know in this country how much the President of the country deserves and how much he deserves, for example, an auxiliary worker somewhere in an institution. It was an ancient wish. We've ruined everything, and the only national assembly still held to the 1996 law, and everything else is confused. You have doctors, I don't know how many, 25 different supplements. What is now said to make more money than the President of the Republic, of course let it, but let it go to the market! Listen, come on, be serious, damn it! This money is made by someone. What's that non-tax membership? Don't joke! I think there's so much blindness in these things, so much beauty, of course, that you'll be on TV tonight, how nice you've been to them, but some of you haven't. I'll say one more thing. I'm sure - look, this law does not create individual wages. It's as if you're now saying: if you speak ill of the president of the National Assembly, you won't get that kind of pay. This law does not allow this. Please, it's a system! System! In addition, because of the specificities pointed out by Mr Janš, we have given them the opportunity to discuss for themselves where they will go, and they will also talk about how fat or heavy that drawer will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Two more replicas: Mr Moge, then Mr Visjak. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u68	It seems to me, at least to my understanding of my weak reasonable power, that we are not talking about this payroll law, but about the pay grade I was talking about. If it's been misunderstood, then I'm saying goodbye, and I'm saying I won't be calling again.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I repeat to Mr Lavrinc that, of course, there are now some journalists on the market, but those journalists who are on RTV are not on the market. I think that the press profession is such that it must be on the market and must be on the market, because it creates quality and independent journalism. However, if we introduce and include part of journalists who are very important for information and for public opinion making, into one system and others not, they are no longer on the market, and they will be those - probably - who are also not up to the results to raise their market price. That is why I think it is right that journalism and the journalistic profession are exempt from these molds, which are set here today and which, of course, are burdened by the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Partlych, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u72	I think that - I hope that I will not trigger new replicas because I think we have told each other and that we can go to the vote. Apparently, we're talking about two different things. I listened to speakers from the left and right, of course equally relevant and with the same aprioral sympathy or antipathy. I wouldn't define myself here. But it seems to me that we are in some story, when a man, when he is evil, is held to the last: but when there is no more water, he still clings to it. About protecting them now in this way, as we once protected them when they did not - I know who - was watching over us. By agreeing to hold this, I would agree that we will now protect university professors in this way, judges and so on. So once again, I would say that, according to my humble judgment, it is those who say that this is not the case. That there is some visibility of public spending. And they're paid out of these funds. However, if this institution is capable of any independence and does not pay people out of public funds, this story is completely accurate, as we are now listening to it. I just don't understand because if there were really replicas to it, I'd agree that others should have some kind of protection. However, since I am sure that this is not the case, I propose that we vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Two more debates. First Mr. Yuri, then Mrs. Simšič. Are you giving up, Mr. Yuri? Mrs. Danica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I admit that I have given a lot of thought to whether or not I should make an announcement in this debate for a very simple reason. Because, with the proposers of this amendment, I have a particular type of experience that I would not like to qualify. However, I would like to say something: that today's debate is about a good degree of deliberation. Why? Because we have in Article 13 a proposal that exempts all employees in the public service Radiotelevision Slovenia from the public sector wage system. All employees. And why do I say that this second article is about perpetuation? Okay, if most people think that journalists on national television, on national radio, who have to have special status, then it also seems to me that it is a bit unacceptable for fellow journalists in the public service to forget their colleagues, who, in particular, can sometimes say much more than a single word. Where are the recorders here, where are all those who, even with their way of expressing themselves, tell the public a great deal? Once, when we adopted a law on pay ratios in the National Assembly, which, of course, was annulled by this adoption of the law - this was in 1994 - and when some of us hoped to express our concerns about the salaries ratios of doctors, it may also be illustrative that after individual discussions, when doctors came to individual groups of Members, the conversation - at least with me - began in the way: "Hello, we would like to tell you that doctors decide on life and death daily." This, if we translate into the field of journalism, I will say that journalists decide daily whether or not the event happened or not. And before that, you don't have to close your eyes. And of course, whether or not they report anything and how they report it, they are bound by both the law and the code of journalistic ethics. How someone meets it is judged on their own, so they have their own criteria. At the same time, I would say that it is also some kind of misapprehension that we say that public opinion and freedom of expression, freedom of the press is not a constitutional category. It is, but it does provide for Article 39 of the Constitution. In fact, I could list a number of arguments that if we exempt someone, we would exempt the institution as a whole and as employees in this institution. If anyone in this country should, in fact, be in a situation where they are not paid from state resources, it is certainly the one who, by definition, is reliable by definition - which journalists by definition are not, but also do, and it is right to do - controls all the institutions of this country, their conduct towards people and that is, of course, the Ombudsman. The state, of course, can put even more pressure on him. So let's think about all of these things. I will support the amendment to Article 13 myself, and amendments to this Article 2 when it comes only to excluding the work of people who are employed in the public service of RTV Slovenia, I will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I think I can wrap this up. I conclude the debate on the amendment and on Article 2 and move on to a decision on the amendment. Let's vote! There are 62 of us here. The vote was 19 to 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are therefore moving on to debate and decision on Article 5 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is an amendment of the government supported by the mother's working body. Under 2 is the amendment of the board with the support of the government. Would you like to discuss it? [[They don't want to.]] We move on to decision-making, first of all to amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the Government's amendment to Article 6, which is supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 7. Under number 1, the Government's amendment, supported by the mother's working body, under number 2, is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, which is not supported by the mother's working body and the government - just a moment. These two amendments are under review. On the bench you received an amendment to the government's amendment to article 7 or an amendment to the government's amendment under order number 1, this is the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. You also have on your hands the amendment, which is independent, to Article 7, which is the new Slovenia's parliamentary group. Let me do it again. First, we will decide on the amendment to the amendment, which is proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, then we will decide on the amendment of the government under order number 1 in the review. Then under order number 2 in the review of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and then the amendment on the benches of the same proposer. I'm opening a debate on all the amendments. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u76	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Once again in the third stage of the adoption of the Law on the System of Public Wages, I would like to explain the amendment which I have tabled in the second reading and which was already adopted in the form of a decision at first reading. In fact, at the first reading, we have decided that the Government should consider the possibility of classifying the veterinarians working in the public administration system as a separate professional group until the law is drawn up for second reading. This has not happened, but the government is still insisting that it is toning, while the veterinary union is proposing - and so has the government and the responsible have negotiated and talked - that in the system we have and when the veterinary service becomes ready for entry into the European Union it is increasingly important and necessary for veterinarians to be specifically mentioned in this law. And this amendment that's before you is actually proposing it and nothing more. It is said that only those mentioned in the C pay group, in addition to those already mentioned, are also mentioned by the veterinarians. In fact, the veterinary service in Slovenia performs a very important function. I am personally sure of this and I would like to say that I am aware that there are many people in this country, perhaps even in this House, who do not know the scope and work, and I could also say the power of the public veterinary service. In fact, the public health service operates in the public health system. The whole hygiene of foodstuffs of animal origin is subordinated to the veterinary public service and is also the responsibility of the public health service for this area. All imports and exports of foodstuffs of animal origin are under the control of this service. Today, more than 200 different zoonoses are known in the world - said diseases that are common to both humans and animals - and the veterinary public service is the one that protects our population from these zoonoses. In the system of globalisation in which this world is leaning and in which we will quickly - or already - we have entered Slovenia, of course, this issue will become even more acute. I understand that fellow veterinarians who, in the fact that doctors have received a special salary group in this law, feel somehow threatened and discriminated against if I use that word. They play, I can say, an equally important role in this public health system, and this law does not recognise their status and somehow remain at the level of those who have been in the past 50 years of socialist agriculture until this service.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u77	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u78	When it comes to the system of wages, more or less there is always talk about the top level of wages. In fact, it is not as important a top level as an important lower level. If we look at this table, this annex 2, we can actually see that there are big differences. For example, a teacher or a high school professor can start with a high education in the 14th grade, while a novice judge can start in the 38th grade, or a researcher in the 28, a doctor - say - in the 26th grade, and it follows that someone who starts in the 14th grade will virtually not be able to reach the level in which, in fact, another profession such as a judge begins. In this context, Slovenian veterinarians also see and fear that they will remain on where they are today, when the basics of wages are very low, and therefore expect to be mentioned in this law. All that awaits them in the framework of the collective bargaining process, however, they themselves are aware that they will have to choose the right place on their own. I think that this amendment in no way undermines the concept of this law and that, for reasons of the importance of the veterinary service, it would be meaningful and well supported. Therefore, on behalf of some 350 to 400 vets employed in the system of public servants, I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would just like to present briefly the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 7; it is also bound by our amendment to Annex 2, which is an amendment to the Government's amendment to Annex 2. What led us to this amendment? We were led by the position of the General Meeting of the Supreme Court as the highest body of the Supreme Court. In its position, the general meeting stressed that the Supreme Court, under Article 127 of the Constitution, is the highest court in the country and represents the top of the judiciary. In accordance with Article 3 of the Constitution, however, the judicial branch of power is equal to the legislative and executive branch. And the view was that the equality of the holders of these branches of power should also be expressed in the equalization of their salaries. The possible distinction could mean that the judicial authority does not recognise its position by the Constitution of a particular position, so we have proposed that the first indent of paragraph 2 of this amendment should be amended to read: "In the A3 group, the highest pay grade from the 62nd grade shifts to 63rd and in the A1 group, except for the President of the Republic, and in the A4 group, the highest pay grade from 65th to 63rd grade." It is said that the salaries of the Prime Minister, the National Assembly and the President of the Supreme Court would be equal, while for two classes the salaries of the President of the Republic remain higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u81	Thank you. Government representative, Mr. Klinar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u82	Thank you. I would once again comment on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group concerning veterinarians. I would like to briefly explain once again that the veterinarians are in the C2 payroll because they are state officials. It's about the veterinary department. You know that the veterinary department is gone, so we don't define them as a professional group. However, veterinarians organised within the veterinary chamber are private veterinarians. So we think they're properly represented in group C2. However, I must also say for future discussions that, of course, the exclusion of someone in a particular payroll group does not automatically mean that he is now in any way privileged in terms of wages. This is not directly related. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u84	Thank you for this explanation, but I would like to add that this is not a link between the veterinary administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the veterinary chamber. The Veterinary Chamber is something completely different and has virtually no connection to this law. So, we do have a law in Slovenia that membership in the Veterinary Chamber is mandatory, but this means some sort of Czech organisation within the Chamber. This is mainly about vets who are employed in the public service system. Exclusively or all of them belong to the veterinary authority of the Republic of Slovenia and are also employed in this administration. However, they do mainly, as I said before, control over food of animal origin, so they work in a public health system.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss this issue anymore, I conclude the debate on these amendments. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Maybe I raised my hand a little too late. Thank you so much for your kindness. Just the amendment we tabled, I'd like to explain, but at the same time, I apologized for the mistake. Now I'm just supposed to tell you what the mistake is, and then we'll file it in writing. Here it is that in the table of the Paying Group, the paying subgroups are defined as "A2, A3 and A4", and correctly "A1, A2, A3, A4" is defined as the maximum 63rd payment grade. We're going to fix this in writing. We believe that it is right, given that, by the Constitution, the legislative, executive and judicial authorities are equal, to equalize this and thus to show our contribution to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I can conclude the debate now. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. I'll try to be clear so we know what we're deciding. It is therefore a group of amendments to Article 7. We will first decide on the amendment to the amendment of the government to Article 7, which is proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Explanation of voice. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I'll explain my voice briefly. I will support this amendment. This amendment is a consequence of our proposal that later, in the annex, when the legislative, executive and judicial branches of the authorities are equal to class 63, the President is determined to have class 65, which is the consequence. If this solution is to be adopted there, then this paragraph in the current amendment of the Government should be deleted. I will support the amendment of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u89	Thank you. So we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. The vote was 11 to 39. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment to the amendment didn't get any support. We're going back to review. We will decide on the Government's amendment under order number 1 in the review to Article 7. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. It was 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. It was 15 votes against 39. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We also decide on the amendment of the parliamentary group, which is amended and reads as follows: In the table of the Paying Group, the paying subgroups, for the payment groups A1, A2, A3 and A4 are defined as the maximum of the 63rd payment grade. Did I get it right, Mrs. Zupan? Thank you very much. We therefore decide to amend the amendment to Article 7. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. It was 12 votes against 39. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 11. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments of the government to Article 12. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u90	52 present. 40 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't accepted. It was accepted. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, it's a quick trade. We decide on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 12. Please. One minute's rest, please. Can the technical service come here? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u91	Just a little more. Not yet. There's no vote yet. I will now put to the vote the amendment under order number 2 to Article 12. We're voting. 50 present. 40 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're at Article 13. We have three amendments. Anybody want a word about them? [[Nobody.]] Then I conclude the debate and we first vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 13. Can we discipline this phone? Thank you very much. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 13. 55 present. 45 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 13. We're voting. 54 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. In this article, we are also voting on the amendment under order number 3. 54 present, 3 for, 43 versus. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're going to article 14, where we have one amendment. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I shall put the amendment under order number 1 to article 14 to the vote. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 51 present, 40 for, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. On page 7 of Article 16 we have an amendment. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. 52 present, 41 for, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have an amendment to Article 19. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. 50 present, 41 for, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment. At Article 21, we have two amendments that have been tabled, and I am putting them both into discussion if anyone wants a word. [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. First, we decide on the amendment under order number one. 50 present, 41 for, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now deciding on an amendment under order number two. We're voting. 51 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that both amendments have been accepted. We also have two amendments to Article 22. I'm putting both of them in a debate. Nobody wants a word. I shall put the first amendment to the vote, under order number 1 to Article 22. We're voting. 49 present, 41 for, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 22. We're voting. 49 present, 6 in, 36 against. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have an amendment to Article 23. Nobody wants a word. I'm putting him to the vote. 40 for 49, none against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have an amendment to Article 25. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting him to the vote. 51 present. 41 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have three deposits, am I right that all amendments under order number 1, 2 and 3 to Article 28 have been withdrawn? [[...]] One and two? Comrade Battelli, please tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. No, they're not withdrawn. I will try to explain this situation in the shortest possible way. It is said that the amendment under order number 2 will be withdrawn, which, by the way, enjoys the support of the parent's working body. In yesterday's debate on the Committee, however, it has been shown that, for the officials of other judicial bodies, there is no possibility of establishing an additional Council of Justice because there are differences. Only judges may be appointed by the Council of Justice, while, for example, the Advocate General of State and so on. There are different institutional moments that can determine this. This makes the amendment more complete and clear under order number 1, to which the editorial amendment has been tabled. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I don't know how, in the text of the first paragraph. [[...]] The amendment to be voted on is an amendment under order number 1 that will be corrected according to the editorial work to be carried out. This is this amendment, which actually enjoys the support of the parent's working body. The other one's been removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u93	Comrade Battelli, just a moment. Madam Secretary-General will help clear the matter. Is there something wrong with the serial numbers that you referred to, or did we have different information from yours that you just gave, about the withdrawal? I ask for a piece of kindness and patience from the National Assembly to clarify the procedure for voting on the amendment to Article 28.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u94	We're clear. It's okay. We'll move on slowly. We're more than halfway through. Colleagues and colleagues, may I have your attention, please? First, about the amendments that have been withdrawn. Amendments under order 2 and 3 have been withdrawn. It's just two. We will vote on the amendment under order number 1 and 3. We have an amendment to the amendment to Article 28 under order number one. We will first decide on the amendment to the amendment under order number one. It's an editorial amendment. There is no dispute, what shall we vote on? [[No, no, ……]] Then I'll put it to the vote. May I have your attention, please? The first vote was not successful. Can you please sit in your bench? Once again, I am putting an amendment to the vote. Please! Let's vote for the amendment! 46 present. 38 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. Let us now vote on the amendment under order number one. Please! Amendment under order number 1 to Article 28!s 46. 37 for, 4 for. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. With this, he became an amendment under 3 immaterial. Okay. This is how we decided on the amendments to Article 28. Can I ask Members that we now go to the new review that you have before you on the bench, because some of the corrections have been introduced and we are also going to the 12th page of the new review. Do we all have new checks in our hands? We go to Article 29 and the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 29. Let's vote! 51 present. 38 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The amendment shall be submitted to the 30th Article of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Nobody wants a word. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to 30! The first vote failed. One more time. Colleagues and colleagues! Let us once again vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 30! Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to 30! I think there's enough of us in the hall. Good. Look, it's 1:00. I suggest we give 15 minutes off, so maybe there's another thing going on. The National Assembly has been working since 10 a.m., and I suggest we now take a 15-minute recess to begin at 1:15 p.m. But please, colleagues and colleagues, you're in the hall at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u95	We'll resume the session in three minutes. I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. We're running out of time for a short break. We'll continue the meeting. The secretaries of the parliamentary groups should remind the colleagues and colleagues who are in the House of the National Assembly to come to the large debate room, please. When I assess that there are enough of us, I will determine the presence in the Chamber and then we will go to a re-vote. I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to come to the hall. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. I'm picking up the presence to see if there's enough of us. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Enough of us, the National Assembly is adjourned and can continue its decision-making. We are in Article 30 and decide on the amendment to this Article under order number 1. This is the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Are we getting enough together? Can we proceed with the decision? Please, let's vote! Let's vote! I'll raise my voice a little. I hope this isn't rude. 50 present. 36 for, no one against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment. By Article 38, we have an amendment to the amendment of the government proposed by the Committee and the second amendment of the government. Anyone want a word on these proposals? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote first on the amendment to the government's amendment. Please! 48 present. 36 for, no one against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. Let's vote on the amendment under order number two! 49 present. 35 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have two amendments to Article 46. Anyone want to talk about them? [[Nobody.]] Then I put them to the vote in order. First, the amendment to the Government's amendment under point 2. Let's vote! The proposer shall be the committee. 53 present. 40 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's vote on the amendment under order number two! 41 voted in favour of 56, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. On the 15th page of the review, we have two amendments to Article 47. Does anyone want a word about both amendments? I'm guessing there's no one. I'll put it to the vote first. Let's vote! We are in the middle of the vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 47. 54 present. 40 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. Now let's vote on another. Let's vote on the amendment under order number two! We've got this on page 16. 54 present. 40 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. On the 17th page, one amendment, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has been tabled for the 50th article in our review. Anybody want a word? My friend Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u96	I signed up for two things. I would like to discuss this government amendment, and the other is that I will table another amendment to this point. First, I will read the amendment to the amendment, adding a new paragraph at the end, which reads: "Despite the provisions of this law, the Government may, due to the speedier partial elimination of the imbalances found between salaries in education and education and other activities, enter into an annex to the collective agreement on the activities of education and education in the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the relations established by this law". Explanation. The proposed amendment allows for the early partial alignment of wages with the introduction of the new law, in order to eliminate the observed backlog of wages for workers in education and education. I think that this amendment is going towards greater negotiation and faster resolution of these gaps in salaries in education and education. I suggest we support this amendment as well. The other thing that interests me in this amendment of government is that it smells terrible after some time ago, after the 'arshins' of the previous decade and of the previous century, even in the millenniums, when, in fact, it has been a great pleasure for the freezing of wages when the government has not been able to manage other wage-relationship mechanisms in the public sector. I have always been years ago against the fact that wages freeze in one way or another, because this has always caused dissatisfaction, because when some part was frozen, disproportionateity appeared in a different order than it did here. Since I know that this ratio of 1 to 10 could and should be eliminated, it could be established not until 2008 but earlier. And I ask, given that I have already proposed to the Minister and others that it would be appropriate to look at the lowest payment grade and the part that actually establishes this relationship. Of course, it could be the highest. But given that we meet them in the public sector, at least that's how I was informed and I read in the newspapers and got some information that pays in the lowest classes, even in the National Assembly, there were still years ago, perhaps even now so that employees receive so-called paraphernalia. Even if it means that those who are in these classes below are receiving expensive supplements, they receive from this same budget, and should, in my firm belief, eliminate these classes and turn it into wages, this lower class. I ask because I do not know how much data there is in the public sector for employees who receive too low wages. I think that Mr Christmas asked about this a year ago at KVIAZ and in the National Assembly how it is. I think it would be a better instrument for us to work our sons, I will say, some extra work, to pour ourselves some pure wine and to say: in this country is the lowest wage one that makes it possible to survive, and the state in the public servants sector regulates this in such a way that this relationship establishes 1:10 and is that lower class to simplify, without a Dragnjan supplement. I'm asking the government for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u97	First of all, colleague Kebrich has a discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I do not agree with the words that the lower class must ensure survival, but the lower class, the lowest wage, must ensure a decent life. This is a correction of the implementation of colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u99	It was an editorial correction. Mr. Minister, do you want to answer the questions? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u100	The decision to set 1:10 as a target ratio was the decision of the National Assembly in the second reading, where the assembly, with a special decision, committed us to establishing a mechanism for the elimination of as high a relationship as we have now. However, we have a relationship that is somewhat after 1:12, with this relationship between the preparation of this law already being reduced by the previous 1:13, after we have already performed the operation of which is spoken of by a respected fellow Member, namely, we have abolished the lower first three classes. This operation - remembered the 68 classes at the beginning or until the second reading, now we have 65, created by removing the lower three classes, thereby increasing the lowest wage in the public sector from the previous 83,000 to 99,000. We have thus established an important imbalance in relation to the lowest wage in the economy. A further increase in this relationship could create disorder in the labour market, which should nevertheless be uniform. The substance of the determination - probably the Member has in mind the article, the last paragraph or the preceding paragraph, where the target ratio is 1:10 - is precisely this mandatory direction of the Government to achieve this, but to achieve it within a few years. This can be achieved in a variety of ways, depending on how the economic situation allows us to increase the minimum wage. This is the solution proposed by the Government at this point, including the last paragraph, which requires that part of the annual harmonisation is intended to reduce the range, and in particular to establish new, more correct wage relations in the public sector. I suggest you support this provision as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u101	Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u102	I would call on the Minister to say something else about the amendment where colleague Anderlič proposes a new paragraph. It would be interesting to hear the government's position here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u103	Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u104	With regard to the proposal relating to the negotiations in education, I would say that we understand it in such a way as to stress that dialogue with education and education unions can continue and that the adoption of the law is therefore not an obstacle. It is true that this could also be understood in itself, since the law states as to the transition that collective agreements currently in force are maintained until new collective agreements are established or the new system is put into effect, that is, in 2004. Thus, the wording proposed within the other possibilities of interpreting the law is particularly stressed by what the proposer considers that it is in the interest of the law that this dialogue can only be completed within the limits or limits set out in Annex 2. From this point of view, I believe that the legislative supplement is acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u105	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u106	I could ask the minister why he wouldn't answer my question. I would like to hear whether, even now, once we have adopted a new law, it will be necessary for individual groups of public sector employees to be required to receive additional allowances from the public sector?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u107	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u108	I should answer with a few reserves because the social issue does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, so that I would not be able to say qualifiedly from my own response. However, we advise colleagues who are more knowledgeable than I that we have not paid for two years in the public sector, which means that this institution has not been established in public sector wages. In my opinion, the Dragan Supplement is something that is intended for very low pay categories. I said earlier, however, that after a change in the second reading, the lowest wage in the public sector starts at 99,000, which I believe is significantly higher than the categories for the Dragan Supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u109	Comrade Companion, then colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. My friend Anderlich surprised me. He proposed an amendment to the government's amendment, which has a very important political connotation and, on the other hand, raises the issue of the Draganj allowance, which has nothing to do with this amendment directly. And above all, we would like to see the amendment of colleague Anderlich received in writing. [[We just got it on the bench.]] . The question that is being opened is whether this amendment already constitutes the first exception. This time we've all choked, even in the coalition, so there won't be an exception - hop, Cefisel, in the last, third reading come the exception! If this is an exception, then it is necessary to speak directly and to identify the following. When the Government proposed a request to convene an extraordinary second reading meeting, it noted that, in addition to the business conditions mentioned above, this proposal for an extraordinary meeting was also justified by the signing of an annex to the collective agreement on education and education by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia undertook to adopt that law by 30.4.2002. And then also, I think it is important to summarise the position of the education and education union, i.e. the SWIZ, which has publicly reiterated that the requirement for the adoption of a law in April is waived, but insists on the enforcement of wage harmonisation before the envisaged application of the law on the public sector's wage system, that is, before 1.1.2004, "as these requirements would have significant public financial effects, particularly in 2003, which could have negative consequences in a tight economic situation". If this amendment, which is an amendment to the Government's amendment to colleague Anderlich's amendment, is a political "face saving" of this problem of social partnership and the fact that, in fact, it is because of the fact that the government is talking about that we are having this meeting today, because of the mandate of 30.4.2002, that there will be no misunderstanding, so we are sitting here today, otherwise we would not be sitting. Therefore, if Mr Anderlich's proposal is such that it is an exception but, of course, does not mean additional funding, this is one aspect. I would therefore ask the Minister if he could comment on the amendment by Mr Anderlic, in particular in view of the additional resources that the possible consistent interpretation of this amendment might represent. However, if this is an additional safeguard or a hint that negotiations between the government and the union would not be interpreted in order to prevent the law from being passed for further negotiations, then this is a solution that would be welcome to support it; if that is all it is. I am firmly convinced, however, that the very provisions of the law are talking about the continuation of negotiations. Then why is this amendment necessary? No one has informed us that such an amendment will be tabled, no one has invited us to sign it, so we would like answers to these questions here, in a public place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u111	I'll give you my word right away. First, colleague Anderlič, colleague Lavrinc, colleague Potrč and minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u112	Now I was really talking about two things that weren't connected in anything, but for an apology, anyway, the amendment was written only when I started talking before I got it in my hands. However, this is mainly what you said about the second part and it is that things continue to be negotiated and regulated in the context of the things already envisaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u113	Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. I think it is this intervention of Mr Spokonik that is in place. Why? Now I have this text myself, and in the first part of this amendment it reads: "Despite the provisions of this law, it is possible to rule..." and so on. Therefore, I ask that you also think carefully about what we are talking about. That's the first one. Second of all, I don't think that's fair. I'm sorry. When I performed on behalf of the parliamentary group, I said that the law, as it was prepared, along with the amendments summarised yesterday on the committee, was in line with the unions, which represent the majority of the public sector employees. Someone who didn't want to cooperate, but, of course, now he's out here, and he's taking the case in particular. And that's what the law does. I don't like it. Excuse me. I'm gonna say this to feel like I'm gonna feel like the rest of us are being pulled over. If that's not the case, I'll be grateful for the message. I'm just saying, I've only warned you of danger or dangerous traps coming out of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u115	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I understand the meaning of the law in simultaneously regulating the pay system for all sectors that fall within the context of the public sector or public servants. It is clear in the draft law, and I ask that the applicant also state that, irrespective of the provisions of this law, which provide for this co-existence, regardless of the provisions of the law which provide for the beginning of the law with regard to changes in payment classes and the like, it would be possible to apply this to education and education, without prejudice to the provisions of the law, which provide that the law may, but after the decision of the Government, be regulated earlier. If that's possible to understand, then I think that's a departure from the concept of law. I'm asking him. If that's the case, I think that's a departure from the context and the concept of the law. I ask for a very, very clear answer, because I fear that this can mean at one point the beginning or the continuation of what we wanted to avoid with the new concept of the law, that we will have a partial agreement that we will have partial changes, that the wage ratios will change in part, of course with the consequences then also on all the other parts of the employees belonging to the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u118	I have said my understanding of this provision, which is to place more emphasis on the limitations laid down by the law in Annex 2, including on education and education. Otherwise, it is the law, its adoption of power, as far as application is concerned, to interpret only in such a way that existing contracts are maintained, meaning that they can also be amended, supplemented or terminated until a new contract is made. This would have been the case even if this provision had not been made. It is true, however, that the law establishes a new network of collective bargaining, lays down the deadlines for the commencement of collective bargaining as implementing instruments of this law in a new way and a way of preparing for the start of a new relationship with 1.1.2004. On the explicit question of Mr Sponik's Member, what financial implications this annex has, if we take a closer look at the wording, not this annex, but this amendment, it seems that the government has given only the power to negotiate this but not any obligation to negotiate, and even less to agree on any obligation that would be pre-written or pre-mandatory. This means that there is no direct predecessor of financial obligations here. It is only here that negotiations have already been initiated, a month ago, two months ago, on the initiative of the Government to conclude, but that the conclusion of these negotiations is such that within the limits set by the law very clearly in Annex 2. In such an understanding of this amendment, I think there is no harm to the concept of marriage if it is accepted, but very much the benefits are not. Even if that was not the case, I think the legal formulation is clear. The existing treaties remain, may be supplemented, terminated, amended until the entry into force of the new Treaties.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u119	Madam Secretary from the Secretariat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u120	Mr President, thank you for the floor. However, we think that the Secretariat will give a warning to the National Assembly, although we do not really fully understand the text of this amendment. For the time being, the government has the authority to conclude an annex. If the annex is concluded and signed on both sides, then it shall also apply. We point out that if such a solution would also have material legal effects so that one group of employees can be treated differently, the National Assembly must have a reasonable reason in a different specific situation, otherwise it violates the principle of equality as set out in Article 14 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u121	Comrade Potts, colleague Kebrich, in a row.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u122	I'm asking because I didn't understand again. But at least at the conclusion, Mr. Secretary said "you can accept this amendment because it doesn't break the law." Okay. And I must say that I agree more with the secretariat because it writes because it is faster than it is in law, faster to address the wage imbalances found. Faster than it's ever been in marriage. However, the purpose of the law is to simultaneously eliminate the imbalances that are or to establish the new relationships that are necessary. So this is an exception and I would just like to say that if the government assumes the responsibility that this faster resolution is, for the first time, justified, secondly, that it will not lead to problems in regulating other unions and that it will not once again stop the social partnership in this area, then I personally am at least disturbed by the belief that this is done, but of course with this full responsibility of the government, because it means specifically addressing one sector higher than the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. However I read this amendment and the explanation, I am disturbed by two words or three. This amendment cloudes the whole thing in its own way. On the other hand, we get complaints from citizens that we are adopting such laws, which in a given interpretation mean this once, and on the other hand, what is appropriate in a given situation. That's why I don't think this amendment has been amended to the law. If we have written down the relationship and everything else in the law and that we want to entrench or legalize the application from 1 January 2004, it is not right that we are already opening the door to certain changes that someone will take advantage of at one time or another. I will personally oppose this amendment because it again blurs the situation and opens the side door to break what we have tried to adopt by means of this law: a certain, transparent, clear system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u125	Dr. Gaber's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. On the contrary, the current debate convinces me that it is wise to adopt this provision in this law. But the reason is simple, and we all know him. All those who have very observable tables ahead of us and know the wage ratios of this country, we know that it would be more than wise to realize what the government signed last year in relation to the reduction of wage differentials in the public sector. In the negotiations that the government has had - in fact, it is not particularly appropriate for me to talk about it, I would expect the government to say so - to this end it is looking for a solution. It is looking for a solution that is going in a direction that will start reducing differences sooner than it was in 2004. Indeed, there will be no need to reduce the differences between judges, Members, and I do not know who already, because these salaries are already high enough and do not need to be hunted. But there are categories, and this teacher is one that is overly lagging behind, and it is evident that this is the case. The government has also signed that these differences will be eliminated in order to reduce them and this article does not speak of anything else. It gives the government the opportunity to do so under a similarly written law in the framework provided by this table. However, not only in 2004, but also in 2003. That's the background of this article, I think. I suggest we accept it and, of course, I will personally support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. A fellow cremator.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I was convinced by the debate and the position of the secretariat that I would not support this amendment and I am deeply convinced that we would do more harm than good if we supported this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u129	Comrade Pucka, did you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! I believe that Members would be interested in the answer to the next question. On whose account will this faster partial elimination of the imbalances identified be carried out, or what will this mean in the budgets for the following years? That's all. That's an exact answer. He's not here now. He won't. It is, or it isn't. It can go this way to eliminate this imbalance in a way that in another part of the public sector, employees are forgiven. That's a solution, too. That's why I want that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u131	Anyone else before I give the Minister my word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Please, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u132	Just one short question for the minister. The vote on this amendment would, in my firm belief, also draw behind me the 2003 budget rebalancing. That would be the only understandable consequence. It is important that Members, before we vote on this amendment, we know this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u133	Good. Positions and questions, Mr. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u134	I would like to say that these Members' warnings are very serious and probably worth considering and considering that I do not understand this provision in the way that it already creates any pre-financing obligations. As I explained earlier, but it only authorizes the government to negotiate and nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u135	Can I close the debate? Yes, you can. Okay. We have an amendment to the amendment. It was filed by his colleague Anderlich. We have an amendment to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So we'll decide on two. First, on the amendment to the 50th article of the Public Wage System Act. We're voting. 53 present. 17 for, 29 for. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 29.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We are now voting on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 53 present. 38 for, 4 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that we have accepted the amendment under order number one in our review. We have two additions to Article 52 on the 18th page of our review. Anybody want a word about them? I'm guessing there's no one. Then we'll vote in order. First, on the amendment under order number one. We are voting on the amendment under order number one. 49 present. For 38, no one's against it. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. 52 present. 40 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Four amendments have been tabled in Annex 2 which are under review. We still have an amendment to the amendment of the four groups of Members. Two amendments. Then we have the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, the amendment to the amendment. And the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. It will take some concentration to know exactly what kind of vote we are voting on and what order we are in. But of course, I'm putting everything into consideration. Anybody want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u136	Very briefly, Mr. President. Just a brief correction of the opening sentence of the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. This is an amendment to the new Annex 2 and not to the text, because it is a change. I've talked about this content before. I haven't convinced you. We propose to the parliamentary group that all three branches of government, legislative, executive and judicial, pay grade 63 on the issue of salaries, be equalized, while the pay grade of the President of the State 65. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u137	Thank you. Did my colleagues and colleagues register this? Comrade Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u138	I would like to define myself before the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members to Annex 2. The proposal by the amendment of the Parliamentary Group, at least as a result of the explanation, stems from a statement that is also recorded in a letter from the Supreme Court to the President of the National Assembly, which reads as follows: "The equality of the institutions of all authorities must also be expressed in the equalization of their salaries." I personally disagree with this statement and oppose it. Why? That claim refers to Article 3 of the Constitution, which refers to the principle of the division of power. In practice, the principle of separation of power appears relatively late, in particular in response to the emergence of absolutist regimes. The original, fundamental purpose of the principle of division of power is not to equalize the salaries of the highest officials of the individual branch of government, but rather to restrict the authority, one branch of authority to another. It's called check and balance. Parliament thus oversees the executive branch of power through the Institute of Budget, Constitutional, then Untrust and so on. The judicial authority, the courts supervise the executive branch of the authorities in particular in terms of the legality of the operation and the decision-making, that is to say the performance of the tasks. The Constitutional Court, which is a special branch and as part of the judiciary, is primarily legislative in terms of the protection of constitutionality and legality. The principle of division of power means that each branch of power is independent, independent. However, let me stress, only within the framework of the Constitution and constitutional powers. However, this principle, as far as I understand it, does not mean an equal evaluation of the functions of the highest officials and of the individual branches of government. In my opinion, this can only result from a political decision. The purpose of the law before us has clear objectives, among which he would point out two. Firstly, to regulate discrepancies between individual occupational groups within the public sector and also between officials. Secondly, the evaluation of professions within the public sector, as well as the evaluation of the individual functions of the highest officials of the individual branches of government, legislative, executive and judicial. By means of the law we adopt, we also evaluate the highest functions of individual branches of government, taking into account in particular the constitutional position of the individual branch of government and, above all, the responsibilities and responsibilities of the individual official who has them under the Constitution. The situation established by the proposed law does not mean that the judiciary does not recognise its position by constitutional law, as stated by the Supreme Court. If that were the case, they are also in breach of the fundamental constitutional principle of power-sharing in some European countries, as in Austria, for example, there are several thousand euros between the President of the State and the President of the Supreme Court. The comparison offered with Hungary, Croatia and Macedonia does not convince me, so I will vote against the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u139	Okay. Anyone else want a word? This is an amendment to Annex 2. [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Now pay attention to the order of voting. We will first vote on the amendment to the government's amendment. Then we have two amendments to the four parliamentary groups and then to the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Then there's an amendment by the government that changes the annex. If this is accepted, they remain irrelevant. Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u140	Procedurally, the President, I would ask you - now we have this review and of course we have these individual lists - if you are so kind when you predict what we are going to vote on, it would be very helpful if you would tell us, for example, the amendment, this, this and this, and this. I'd appreciate that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u141	We will also do so so that there will be no misunderstandings as to what we are voting on. First of all, we are voting on the amendment to the government amendment proposed by the Internal Policy Committee, which the Government supports and is under review on pages 18 and 19. Is it clear to the National Assembly that we are voting on the amendment? [[Yeah.]] So we can vote. Please. 53 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will now vote on the amendment to the government's amendment, which was tabled by four parliamentary groups and says, "In the A3 subgroup, the lowest pay grade rises from the 36th to the 37th pay grade." Do we know what we're deciding? Okay, then we'll decide. Please, we're voting. 52 present, 39 in, 3 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We have an amendment to the government's amendment, which reads: "In the pay subgroup I1 the highest pay grade moves from 48th to 53rd pay grade." The four parliamentary groups are proposing this amendment. Okay? Can we vote? Please, we're voting. 52 present, 35 for, 6 versus. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. We have the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, the amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Annex 2 [[It's on a separate list.]] . Do we all have this amendment before us? So we know about the contents of the amendment. We're voting on the amendment. We are voting on the amendment to the government's amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The amendment didn't get the required majority. 16 for, 33 for, 52 for. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 33.]] We're going to the amendment under order number two on page 19 of our review. The government is a proponent. If this amendment is adopted, they remain irrelevant. Can we vote? Please. We are voting on the amendment under order number 2 on page 19 of the review. It's a government amendment. 53 present. 37 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. This made the rest of them irrelevant. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. A statement of consistency, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u142	Mr President, we would like some time to study individual solutions and report very briefly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u143	How much? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u144	Four o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u145	15 minutes. At 2 p.m. and 20 minutes, we'll decide on the law. At 2 p.m. and 20 minutes, we'll decide on the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u146	I'd like to invite my colleagues and colleagues to come over so we can conclude this meeting. Please! Colleagues and colleagues! Please! It's 2:20. The Secretariat has a position on coherence so that we can conclude today's extraordinary meeting with the latest decision. Please! Can I see the presence? Please! I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I just think there'll be more of us. When Comrade Kebrich arrives, we'll be in full formation. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! 49 present. So we're enough to make decisions. Madam Secretary, what is the statement of consistency?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u147	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the light of the circumstances in which this law was adopted, I declare that we assess that compliance with the provisions adopted with the amendments is not violated.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u148	Good. Since the law is mutually coordinated, we can vote on the proposal in full. I put him to the vote unless someone wants a word to explain the vote. Yes, Comrade Kebrich. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. I will briefly explain why I will vote in favour of this proposed law. First, because the law provides a single scale for officials and for all other employees in the public sector; secondly, it removes the injustices in the pay system resulting from forced partial solutions; thirdly, the new system eliminates the increase and forced change in the pay system based on the current political, such or different power and situation; nextly, fourthly, the system eliminates approximately 80 allowances to the basic salary at all times, making the system particularly transparent; fifthly, the new system establishes the public financial control of about 530 billion budget money, representing more than one third of the budget and thus establishes a dependency on the payment of pensions; and sixthly, the new system establishes the correlation between public sector salaries with the annual budget projection. These are the reasons why I will vote in favour of this system for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u150	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and conclude the position. We are voting on the proposal as a whole. Please, we're voting. 57 present, 39 for, 16 versus. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. Mr. Secretary wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u151	If you don't mind, just give me a few seconds. I would like, honourable Members, to thank you for your patience, for your constructiveness, for your participation in the adoption of this, under my very important law. I would particularly like to thank the Internal Policy Committee for its hard work, its President and its professional services. Thank you very much! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-26-SDZ3-Izredna-17.ana.u152	Okay, Minister, this is one rare opportunity when you speak, they have no right to replicate you. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Before we break up, I must tell you that next month is one of the most difficult months in this mandate. We will have two extraordinary sessions, a regular session, committees will meet, even a number of other activities, so I suggest that we now take a very long time off from May through the May Day holidays, as far as possible. Thank you very much.
