ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to inform you that some of our colleagues will not be able to attend the meeting due to other obligations, namely: colleagues Barovič, Čebulj, Čeligoj, Fabjan, Kacin, Kremjar, Lenko, Marsič, Petan, Peterle, after 12.00 with us will not be a colleague of Puck, Pukšič, Rupar, Sok, after 12.00 p.m. of colleagues Shirce and Švagan and Zalokarje and colleague Jaša Zlobc. My colleague Spindler, Tanko, Trophynik, Weber, Grandchild, Zamernik will be missing. I'd like to tell you that I spoke to one of our colleagues on the phone yesterday, who, as you know, had a car accident two months ago with my colleague Celigo. My colleague Celigoy would like to say hello to all of you and say he misses you. In our common name, I wished him all the best, and I wished that he would return to us as soon as possible in the parliamentary bench. Today we have a rather extensive agenda of decisions that we have left either in accordance with the agenda or in line with decisions made in the past days, so we will need some discipline and obedience, as well as patience. We will go in a row, first with a package of ratification laws, then with a mandate-electing matter - here let me inform you that we have two secret votes - and then with the proposals of the laws being dealt with by the National Assembly, which are at third reading. So is the National Assembly ready to start making a decision? Please insert the cards into the voting devices to check their operation. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on the amendment and amendment of the agreement on free trade between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Macedonia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm asking the government if he wants a word. The government doesn't want a word. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the President or the rapporteur want a word? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor to my colleague Jelk Kacin of the LDS Group of Members to explain the position. I don't see a fellow Kacin in the hall. That way, the National Assembly can move on to a decision. I am informing you that no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading. There is therefore no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We are voting on a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement amending and supplementing the free trade agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Macedonia. May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. There are not enough colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. I'd like to wait for a few moments. I'm asking everyone in the lobby to join us. In the new Rules of Procedure it is in such a way that the conclusions are not determined for start-up, but the National Assembly starts at exactly the hour and the presence is determined by the first vote. Colleagues and colleagues, please come to your seats. Second of all, peace in the hall, or I'm not going to continue the session. There's too much disorder in the hall to keep making decisions. Peace in the hall, please! Secondly, we will vote on the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement amending and supplementing the free trade agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Macedonia. We're voting. 51 present, 49 for and none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The draft law was adopted by the National Assembly. This concludes point 26. We'll move on to 27. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROTOCOL PROTOCOL ON PROTOCOL’S PROTOCOL ON PREVENTIONS OR RESTRICTIONS ON MINES, MINS SURPRISE AND OTHER EQUIPMENT, AS REPLACED 3. May 1996, annexed to the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of Certain Types of Classic Weapons, for which it can be counted, to have transboundary traumatic effects or to have the same effect on the objectives. The bill was tabled by the government for consideration by the assembly and I ask her if she wants a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] He asked for the floor in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 125 of Mr Jelko Kacin. He wants a word? Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In this regard, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that there is a consensus in the world that mines, especially anti-personnel mines, appear among the most unnecessary weapons. Therefore, I think it is particularly necessary and important in this case that Slovenia is so active in the mine action fund operating in the territory of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania, and before that it has already operated in the territory of some other countries of South-Eastern Europe and to point out that the European Union is working specifically to ensure that all candidate countries accede to this Protocol in a timely manner. This is why today's vote is also a step towards full membership in the European Union, and this step is coordinated, not only with the candidate countries, but also within the United Nations and in due course the successful implementation of this Protocol will also be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body under the second reading and there is therefore no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, this is the decision on the bill. With all the ratifications, including this, I'll wait for a moment to see if anyone wants to explain their vote, or we'll go straight to the decision. We vote on the bill. Peace in the hall, we're in the middle of a vote. We vote on the bill. 58 present, 55 for, and 1 versus. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. That concludes point 27. We're moving to 28. Dotko, this is on the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of Certain Types of Classic Weapons, for which it is considered to have transboundary traumatic effects or to have the same effect in view of the objectives. This bill was also forwarded to the National Assembly by the government. Anybody want a word? Does the chairman of the foreign policy committee want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u4	Your Honor! This Protocol, or the protocol to which this Appendix relates, has in fact shown considerable inefficiency in its operation. It was mainly about, I will apologize, because I will use this term, a paper that has not had much effect in reducing the risk of using this weapon, but only the decision that has been in force so far is simply not enough. Therefore, the international public has agreed to try, however, to improve the conditions for its implementation in practice with certain acts, so this Protocol is a major step forward and I propose that we support it as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Comrade Kacin, would you like a word as a Member? [[No, no, ……]] This proposal is also considered that no amendments have been adopted by his mother's working body in the context of the second reading, so there is no debate on him or the articles. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. We vote on the bill. I'm asking for peace in the hall! 64 present. 60 for and no one's against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving to 29. Agenda item – Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Amendments to the Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea prior to intensification. The bill was tabled by the government for consideration by the assembly and I ask her if she wants a word. [[No, no, ……]] Does the Foreign Policy Committee want a word? The rapporteur? [[No, no, ……]] This law also applies to the fact that we cannot discuss articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, which is to decide on a proposal for a law. We vote on the bill. 64 present, 62 for and none against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. That concludes this point. We're at 30. Agenda items – Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of Amendments to the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea before Land Disengagement. The proposal was tabled by the government. He wants a word? He would like to speak to the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy or the rapporteur. [[He doesn't want to.]] We're going to move on to the third hearing, which is to decide on the bill. We will vote on the bill. We're voting on the bill! 60 in attendance, 58 in, no in. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes Point 30. At 31. We have a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Protocol on Specially Protected Areas and Biological Diversity in the Mediterranean. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does her representative want a word? Does the president or the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Policy want to speak? In this case, too, we will proceed to a third hearing, which is to decide on the bill. The National Assembly will vote on the bill. Please, we are voting on the bill. 59 present, 58 for and no one against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the 31st item of the agenda. We're at 32. Agenda items - Proposal for a law on the ratification of amendments to the Protocol on the prevention of the intensification of the Mediterranean Sea for the purpose of submerging waste and other materials from ships and aircraft. He wants the word of the government that introduced the law? [[No, no, ……]] Does the president or the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Policy want to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We're going to move on to the third hearing, which is to decide on the bill. Anyone want a word before the vote? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on the bill. Peace in the hall. We vote on the bill. 59 present, so many voted in favour of the proposal, which is therefore unanimously adopted. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and concluded on the 32nd item of the agenda. Thirty-three. We've got our agenda. Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes. Does the government that's proposing the law want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the president or the labour body rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Here too, we will now proceed to the third hearing, to decide on the proposal for a law. Anyone want a word before the vote? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the bill. I'm asking for peace. The National Assembly shall vote on a proposal for a law. 62 present, 59 for and none against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the National Assembly has passed the law and has thus concluded the 33rd item of the agenda. 34. We've got our agenda. Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income tax and capital gains. Does the government want a word as a proponent? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the President or the rapporteur of the committee responsible wish to speak? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. Anyone want a word before the vote? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the bill. 62 present, 60 for and no one against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. Next time, 35. We've got our agenda. Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes, with the Protocol. The Government is also the proposer of this law. He wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the rapporteur or the chairman of the committee responsible want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We'll move on to the third reading. Anyone want to explain their vote before the vote? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the bill. 65 present, 63 for and 1 for. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've passed the law. They have thus concluded this point and also a package of bills relating to the ratifications of international treaties. We're at 36. This is in the context of a proposal for a decision in connection with the re-establishment of state assets. The material was submitted by the Government for consideration. It is three conclusions that I propose that we discuss them together. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The material was examined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Do you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you, President. We signed up in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u7	Did you?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u9	Hipek, I don't have this information on record. Let's see. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know, colleagues and colleagues, if you've read the report of the parent body to supplement the amended and updated programme for the reselling of state assets for 2002 and 2003, to amend and supplement the sales programme and or to replace state-owned property [[construction facilities - business premises and means of transport]] for 2002, the users of which are judicial authorities, and the second update of the amended reselling programme for 2002 and 2003. So this report is one big minestre. But that's not the board's criticism. If you look at this report, you will find that we have a law on public finances, then we have some material that the government prepared before this law came into force, then later when this law came into force. Then there was a question on the Committee, what is just a report, what we are deciding, what is a complement to the proposal, what is the amendment to the proposal. And really, that's not something a man can learn from. It would merit, however, that at least because of the responsibility of the National Assembly, the president of the working body might present this report here. As far as content is concerned, the following. On the basis of recent amendments to the Public Finance Act, the National Assembly has been given a very important mandate. In view of the Government's proposal to complement the annual sales programme for state, financial and real property by including new assets, the National Assembly shall decide. However, the government must report to the National Assembly on the completion of the individual sales programme and it has also been included in the last novel. And that's what's supposed to happen right now, with this material right here. But, as it is said, the committee had to suspend the meeting once because it simply found out, even on the basis of the legal and legislative service, that it was a whole lot of confusion. But this is a very important decision. We in the parliamentary group with experts dealing with this area have examined all this material that we have received to this point of the agenda, and we suggest that we consider: once the government has agreed to complement the sale segment, it would be a good thing, perhaps because of the transparency of the sale of this item, to set up a perhaps special fund to which all these assets, capital shares, real property, claims would be transferred. Of course, this does not mean that this fund then, the management of summer, would mean new jobs. No, no, no. Then it would be good to have the best provider of this fund in the public tender to manage this fund and then, of course, to go on sale when the prices of this asset would also be the most favourable and thus the country would survive the most. We have also looked at some concrete solutions in this material. I would like to ask a representative of the government, this is Mr Bandelj in this case. Do we have a government representative at this point?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u11	Please. Mr. Secretary-General is present.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u12	It's a very important question. I hope I got it right from the material, and we're also agreeing to sell the Vila Bled protocol facility complex. But it does? Is that a topic, too? Look, I don't know if you've reviewed this material. We will give our consent to the sale of the Vila Bled protocol facility before, of course, the destination of the land will change. One thing would be if we only sold out building buildings, but you know, we're gonna give the heat to everyone today. And whoever buys this will buy it at an awful low price, because it's agricultural land or forests, most likely. That's why we want an answer to that. But it is known that there are very large plans for what will happen. It's more than a few acres. That is to say, when there is a change in destination, and whoever buys this will really do what Comrade Kebrich said and then this topic for speculators can, but it will be a millionaire. So our proposal would be not to sell out the entire complex of the Vila Bled protocol facility, but to sell only the Vila Bled building. If possible, we would like to get an answer to this particular question. Once again, Mr President, I would like to say that the working body has even suggested that because of the lack of clarity of the material, because if you have read the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which is not the culprit, this report is so vague that today we do not know what we are accepting. If anyone knows, please tell me. I can quote you: we interrupted the meeting and asked the government to explain a little more. At the end of the hearing, however, they suggested that a certain part should not be considered at any time at the October meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u13	Comrade Sponik, you said the report was unclear. Were you referring to the report or the conclusion?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u14	Mr President, the decision is then unclear, I am sorry. That's my opinion, but apparently no one's dealt with it. Therefore, I would like only to answer the question whether we can get an answer why for the entire Vila Bled protocol facility complex, one of the most prominent spaces in Slovenia, we will also be able to sell very cheap on the basis of today's decision. In fact, it's not just this building, it's also a property. You know what can happen later, in the process, but the destination of the land changes, and prices increase tremendously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. There are more than 70 of us in the hall together. So a small, tiny fertilization soon becomes an obstacle to the speaker. I ask that there be peace in the Chamber, especially when we discuss it before the vote. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Secretary-General of the Government. I'm asking for your kindness in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I too will try to be kind if I can call it that, although I must say that this debate is a little surprising. Above all, I would describe the history of how this happened, and unfortunately also little has been shown how the system of division of power in this country has been defined. At first, I'd say there's probably a bit of trust for the government. After all, the consent of the National Assembly to amend the asset sales programme has been determined by a amendment to the law before this summer to the amendments of Members or Committees. I believe you had those who suggested it in mind probably a large sale of state property, such as banks and the like. But the paradox was that the solution that was adopted, of course, excludes consent to change the sale plan of the Ljubljana Bank, and, as you know, this plan was adopted by the government, autonomously in accordance with the powers it has, while the rest of the law provides that the government must obtain agreement on the sale of old cars and similar matters, which is actually the topic today. And, if you look at it, the key part of this document is actually selling some of the old cars of the year 1991, 1993, 1994 and so on. I don't know when it's going to be a better time to sell these cars, and we're going to win a higher price - if not this year, probably never. Personally, I am sure that this provision does not somehow fall within this law and that it is still necessary for the government to trust that when it sells assets, it complies with its powers and responsibilities. In particular, I would also like to reject the the thesis arising from Mr Podobnik's discussion, if by adopting the amendment of this plan there is simply some sort of sale, some speculation, even I have heard, to sell at ridiculously low prices and so on. None of this holds. The fact is that the Public Finance Act and, of course, all budgetary planning requires programmes, asset sales programmes, purchases, employment programmes, one set of programmes is like accompanying acts, as budgets are mandatory each year. And, of course, we also prepare them, the National Assembly accepts them. But this programme, as well as its amendment, does not mean anything but that procedures relating to resale may be initiated. And that also applies to old cars, including Villa Bled. The fact that some property comes into the sales plan just means, I'd say, that green light that procedures can start, but the procedures are extremely complicated. And of course, there is no procedure without a public invitation to tender, not without the criteria that tenderers must meet. And believe me, the government can also assess in some way when the most appropriate time is to start a sales process, to achieve the most favourable price and so on. I'm sure it's not in the government's interest to sell anything. And if I go back to the question that turned out to be the most controversial - Villa Bled. First of all, I have to say that Vila Bled's status is extremely complicated. It is a state facility, but the state has nothing from it because there is a long-term lease, which is now inherited by the Kranska Sava as a legal successor, and under this lease, I think that there is a ridiculous rent, a tolar per year or something like that, in short, the next 20 to 25 years the government of this facility does not even have a tolar. And the object is falling apart. And, of course, Sava is not ready to invest at the moment. According to professional criteria, it is also unlikely, in fact, that any protocol events will take place there. If we wanted to use this facility - even if we were to get it back into government management - for protocol purposes, we should invest between 10 million and 15 million marks in it - I apologize - 7 to 10 million euros, if I say so, which of course is not. And it wouldn't make sense to invest in this facility. It doesn't make sense. And I'd be happy if we could even get a buyer for that kind of property that would offer what would be an exclusive price. But the exclusive price, I have to say, I mean, done according to judicial valuations, is significantly higher, I think even more than 100% of the actual market value of this facility today and of course the land on which it stands, because I have to say that Villa Bled without that land, which is next to it, is not Villa Bled, it is no longer that object that has a functionally rounded whole. And if we can even find a buyer for this facility, then I can't imagine selling him an object that's supposed to be marketed for top-notch hotel tourism to sell him without those lands that make sense to this villa and this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u17	A colleague of mags. Squirrel, behind you Comrade Squirrel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much for the words of the Secretary-General of the Government. Mr Secretary-General, you are asking us to trust the government. After recent events and recent actions, the government can no longer be trusted, either with regard to the purchase of a plane or a boat. Anything you can say. Where there's always something wrong with selling property or buying. There's only one buyer at the sale, and I'll tell you, there's only one buyer at Villa Bled. Only one buyer will show up, it'll be so made that one vase will get this Villa Bled. Yeah, that's how it happens. That's why, of course, we can't go that way. As for the sale of old cars and this, there is no dispute about it, and the plan, the sales programme must be. A poorly prepared program and not even a confidence in the government, depending on how it went on the last projects. This is a key reason why we won't support these things. And there's no point in asking us to trust us, just like that. There is no reason why it is not properly arranged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u19	Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. I'd like to come by again. I agree with the Secretary of State of Government that it was only a decision of the National Assembly recently that it had jurisdiction over matters relating to the sale of state property. And last but not least about selling off old cars. This could be a paradoxical thing. But formally, today, when we come to a decision, we can accept responsibility, we will accept responsibility. And that's why I'm answering. Look, Mr. Bandelj, my opinion is that the sale of the Vila Bled protocol facility complex is premature. That was my point. As far as I am concerned, it is also necessary to change the destination of the land before being resold. I've justified it, too, and let me do it again. I'll do it again. The key problem is in land. The land has over 100,000 square metres. And I would also like to point out that, hopefully, we were right, but in the sales programme you're talking about 79,000 square meters. Perhaps what you said earlier is unclear about ownership. But then the data doesn't match here. I'd like to ask you to clear this up. But the entire complex of land belongs to the Triglav National Park category. And clearly, it is assessed as a normal agricultural land. But this is essentially going to become a building plot then. You'll see it happens. The interest of many will be that at least part will turn into a complex of building land. Of course, such a procedure would greatly increase the value of a square meter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u21	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u22	Look, I hope that this information is accurate, but it was obtained only with a view to preparing this item on the agenda and on responsibility. The service of the government's common services was able to evaluate the property complex of Villa Bled. And this assessment is relatively low. And it's also understandable why it's low. Because there are only 25 well-preserved apartments and many rooms are inadequate for tourism. The whole type of facility has already been destroyed. This is where Sava Kranj d.d. was mentioned. Somehow, if I understood you correctly, Mr Bandelj, an agreement is being sought to be a buyer to purchase this complex of protocol facility Vila Bled Sava d.d., which already owns Hotel Toplice in Bled. Do you think from the perspective of a good host, and the country must be a good master, that one of the most eminent tourist and protocol facilities goes with only one provider? That's the logic of it. There'll be only one bidder, he's in the game. I would like, in particular, to have a bearing on the fact that if we open the sale process today, that we are very careful here and that the working body is re-examined in this area. Because it is obvious that the National Assembly has entered into political responsibility for such a decision by the Government because it will give because it will adopt a decision. In Slovenia, I think that if I am not mistaken, we have 12 people who have an audit license for their work. And one of them is: he made an evaluation of this complex. And the opinion of these people is that it's not a key decision now, but it's a crucial decision whether or not we're going to sell apart from the complex, so the buildings, at the same time, everything that's land-related. And they say if the country were a good master, I wouldn't do that. So I will vote against this decision because it is irresponsible to support it. However, if possible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that, because of the information I have given, as chairman, you find that the decision on this item would be postponed to the next meeting of the National Assembly and that it be determined whether it is 100,000 m2 or 79,000 m2. That's important information.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u23	Comrade Jerovšek, we're on our way. Very large arms are now raised, in order [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I would also respond to the petition of the Secretary-General of the Government to trust the government, and join Mr Drobnič's opinion that we are sorry for the government and government's actions over the past ten years do not lead us to improve our confidence for eight years. And that is why I will also oppose these decisions because they do not allow a transparent review of how and what state assets are being sold. In fact, how can we trust that government officials now, even if I would say, of their lobbyists, are hindering themselves from the criteria of even objective responsibility, which is the most common thing in politics. Look, Minister Keber says he's not objectively responsible for the events at the cell hospital. Such catastrophic matters and in any other country, politics would be aware of its responsibilities. That's one case. As far as the sale of state property is concerned, there's a whole bunch of cases. Look here after Ljubljana. The parishes are now running and selling to the Red Cross, replacing the affairs themselves, only the fraud of the state and the citizens, and we have to trust. You can't be trusted until you get to a higher level when you can actually be trusted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u25	Look, it's not just a question of kindness, it's also a question of respect for the rules of procedure. There must be peace in the hall, while colleagues and colleagues communicate their views, and please do. I now give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Government, who will be followed by his colleagues Dr. Bayuk, Kacin and Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u27	I'm sorry. First, Mr. Secretary-General got the word, then you got the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u28	Excuse me. I will be happy to listen to the Secretary-General. I hope he says something.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u29	Mr. Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u30	I'm not going to say much, and I'm going to stop by one last time, because I have to say that you're equipped with data, at least some better than me. I didn't deal with this sale, and I don't know any particular buyer, nor do I perform on behalf of any buyer. If anyone else, then I am not the one in this Chamber who would lobby for anyone in any way, and I must say that the programme, as far as I am concerned, as well as the rules of procedure and decisions of the government and the requirements of the law is clear. It's not a discussion for me, but 79 or 100,000 m2 of surfaces. What the program says is nothing else. And I'm going to say again, I don't know where we're talking about, and we're selling this to a predetermined buyer. That's not true. I said it well before, the adoption of this programme means only a green light to start making sales decisions. That doesn't mean Villa Bled will be sold. Even in last year's sales programme and all previous years, a whole lot of assets have been identified, which has never been sold, and there has never been a decision to go to sales, even due to the weighting of market conditions, when it makes sense to start and what to sell. So, of course, any insinuation that would fly to the government, officials or anyone, I strongly reject. I have to say, I'm not dealing with this case either, we have the necessary professional services to do so after all. I'm kind of surprised by this discussion. I can't imagine how someone could define villas or parks suddenly as a wally building plot; I don't know what would make this complex, I don't know who would buy it. In short, I know what will happen to this complex if nothing is decided - it will go down like the collapse of a species of other state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor, Dr. Bajuk, behind you, Comrade Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, I forgive myself for speaking earlier, but it's a mistake. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I myself will support the proposal of my colleague Mr Podobnik, because the availability of state property really requires more attention from us. I trust the Secretary-General when he says he didn't come armed with some data, it seems normal to me, and he doesn't take it for granted, because that's how we do it. But I would like to warn all our colleagues that if we find it hard to trust just like that, it is on some serious basis, because strange things are happening in our country. For example, in the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, we reviewed the State Defence report on some contracts between the Red Cross and the Ministry of Health, and there we sold, apparently not yet, also some terrain, land, which would make it impossible to access the clinical centre; this has been pointed out to us that this is something strange. Now we are waiting for an answer from the Minister of Health, and certainly it will not happen, I hope not. But strange things happen. We have also read in this report how our valuers work. This is not yet a clear, transparent system that would give us the assurance that things really work as they should. Since you have three assessments completely different, then, of course, those who decide have decided on the one that was least beneficial for the country. So it's worth reviewing this thing again and helping the government not to be together, just as they do us, to assume some responsibility for things that, if they are left to themselves, if they are left to the functioning of this imperfect system, lead us to very sad conclusions. So, I will support my colleague Sponik to postpone this item to the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk. Before I give my word to my colleague Kacin and then to my colleague Puck, should I ask my colleague Sponik, did he make this proposal on behalf of the Group of Members? Yes, because this is how you fulfilled the requirement of Article 74, so that the National Assembly on the proposal of the Group of Members to move this item to one of the following meetings can be discussed. Okay. From now on, therefore, we know that the SLS Group has proposed that this point be postponed to one of the next meetings. Nevertheless, I will continue to give my word as it has been reported. Comrade Kacin has the floor, then Comrade Pucka. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I want to support the government's efforts. I will not support the delay, which is a logical consequence of the proposal proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. As Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, I often take part in protocol events at the Villa Bled. And I hope to say publicly that this protocol facility is not proud of the Republic of Slovenia. Until we resolve the ownership issue, there will be no need for investment maintenance. Anyone who has ever looked at any of these rooms must simply be appalled at the fact that we are selling or declaring ourselves a protocol object. This facility simply cannot serve protocol anymore. Therefore, it seems to me that, in the fact that the government is actually only starting the divestment process today, further delay is unnecessary. Everything that has been asked here today as a question, as a dilemma, can be clearly answered in the next stages of the divestment and dispel all doubts. But for years and years we've been digging in place and we don't have the master of this facility. The current tenant, as far as I know and know, is not willing to invest in this facility if he has no guarantee that these investment investments will be taken into account in the final stage, even in the final balance sheet of everything that was and is needed to be invested in the facility. Once again, we're running out of protocol facilities. With our entry into the European Union and the link, then we will need such facilities even more. And I think it is only right for us to sell them to those who will rule with them, and to give them to the state at minimum costs when we need them, and to the extent that we need them. Therefore, I cannot support the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party by delaying the decision and I will support the original proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u35	Let me say that we will vote on the proposal in such a way that before that, the parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to comment on the proposal by the SLS delegation for postponement. For the sake of this point they wanted to speak to colleagues Pucko, Juban, Dr. Bernik and Dr. Drobnic. Comrade Pucka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Squirrel! You mentioned the parent's report several times. It must be clear to everyone in this Chamber that the report cannot contain something that has not been said in the debate or otherwise in the committee itself. That is why the report reflects what happened at the meeting or at two meetings. Now, whether everyone likes it or not, it's another question. That is why this debate and the possibility or proposal you have made are here. At the principle level, because unlike my colleague Kacin on specific matters or on the Villa Bled I cannot speak because I have never been there, I believe that certain concerns or questions have been raised, to which representatives of the government at this second meeting, where we have also adopted the proposed conclusions, have tried to answer and then have not been, even for the principle reasons of the request made or for a given request, that these decisions are not decided at the October meeting. That's why I don't see any good reason to stall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Comrade Juban. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I've been there many times, but in private. My conclusion is as follows. Comrade Companion works a dilemma in two, three areas. First, this proposal is to consider whether the villa would be sold separately, without land, or some facilities, if I understood correctly. The dilemma is, what about the lands that are inside the Triglav National Park. Then it's a land issue, and then I think it's the end of the essential dilemma. With regard to the object itself, I will not repeat what Kacin said. In other words, those who have ever dealt with purchase contracts, you may have found that on surfaces, it's 8 or 10 hectares, 100,000 square meters is 10 hectares, are in all documents, extracts from the cadastral hectares, ari and square dimensions. And if there is any difference in the square metre between the basic document and the data in the contract, this contract cannot be verified. There's no way. If we believe that this system that deals with this kind of business still works in the country. It means there can't be an issue here when it comes to land traffic. Secondly, this facility is no longer the most beautiful in the country. Thirdly, those who have little knowledge of Bled relationships will find that there is no undue interest in buying such facilities. Other diverse villas that fail in such a way that we may be appalled. Next, how can we imagine an object so luxurious in decline that someone buys it without land? What can it mean to him? What Kacin said he was going to make a lot of money, everything around Villa Bled represents an interesting environment, an entire complex. It's not a fairy. Then there's that summer facility where coffee was drinking, then there are economics, some functional facilities, and the whole system could be trained in the future for something. Just Vila Bled or separate. I don't have any land-free facilities worth anything to me. Next up, land. If it is true, if I understand correctly, colleague Sponik, that they are within the TNP, there is a special protection regime and it is not possible just like that, at least it is not possible for me to do so. This means that these are not the reasons why we should postpone the matter. However, I agree with you that in such transactions it appears to be prudent and within the system that we have in the country to break the highest price. And I don't think there will be any significant difference if we postpone this to one month later, or if we vote on it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u39	Dr. Bernick, you're the only one who has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Vila Bled - indeed, there was not enough discussion on the Committee on Finance and we did not have the material to familiarise ourselves with this issue. The state says that this villa is failing, but it seems strange to me to find out after eleven years of autonomy, because the collapse started long ago and the state has not done anything wrong, and I do not believe that the country would not have the opportunity to agree on or anything that is currently in a contract with the State regarding this space. But it seems to me that there may be some kind of kinship here with the examples of companies that just suddenly started to fail in our country, so that certain people could buy that society for almost nothing. But we also know that Bled has great problems with himself by arranging this beautiful space. I must also say that, to the best of my knowledge, the current municipal administration is also completely uninterested in the arrangement of this city and the tourist site, different wells and such banalities are being laid, while true beauty remains intact or unsettled. Let me say that I do not know if Villa Bled is included in Bled's development programme, whatever it is, because without it it it will certainly not be possible to sell this villa in such a way as to serve Bled, the inhabitants and the visitors. Look, Vila Bled has always seemed to me like some kind of mausoleum that was built for certain people who just had that taste, but today it's one thing, but it's a monument to the old regime. I'm sure we know that this monument will have to be properly processed to have the quality that Bled needs. For that reason, I would say that I agree with Dr. Likeness that this point should be postponed. To obtain sufficient material and to know what is, where this villa belongs in the Bled development programme, if any. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u41	A colleague of mags. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much again for your word. I am also appalled, Mr Kacin, but I am not appalled at Villa Bled, but I am appalled at his master or owner. This shows how the government treats this facility. Even though she rented it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u43	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u44	I don't know what this contract is like. But this suggests the terror of the citizens can be what this government is doing. Secondly, which is why I am appalled at the statement, it is that my colleague makes it clear that the country needs protocol facilities, really needs them and why it sells them. But in the protocol facility program, forming a country with the right offer, including a residence, is this Villa Bled really not in the program? Is it supposed to be sold? Or is it because it's such a complicated contract that someone made? Is that in the middle? The kind of sales that will take place in this, at the time of the collapse, we already know. This is the way to minimise its value. So that whoever gets it gets it for as little a price as possible. Mr Secretary-General, if this Villa Bled doesn't land in the hands of a nearby joint that is now renting it now, or one that leads, if that doesn't happen, then I'll pay you lunch in this Villa Bled. If they're going to serve something like that, of course. In short, I don't understand this, I don't understand these actions, these explanations that are illogical. They're really illogical. I'm confused with common sense. And because they're illogical, of course they won't get my support. And I think there are many other Members who are thinking with a sober head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u45	Look, kindness hasn't been taxed yet. Let's spend it a little bit more than we do. Colleagues talk, too much noise, and that bothers them. I don't think that's fair. Yes, please. I think it is our duty for those who speak to enjoy peace in the hall. Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I don't know the matter, and I don't want to discuss it either. Still, somehow I don't like having someone in this room selling me logic that I can't handle. The country will sell this facility, which would otherwise be needed if it were in the same condition as it was supposed to be. This natural or any person will then provide services to the State at a minimum cost. Give me a break. That logic is completely different. Anyone who knows the situation of being in this country knows well when a buyer or a payer of the service of the country is from behind, these prices are steeped in astronomically high. Let's just ask ourselves about the land when a state project comes up and a natural person sells square meters so high that we even went into the decommissioning law. You really don't have to sell that logic at a point like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u47	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u48	Apparently, a provision in the law we adopted in the National Assembly has also led to some absurd matters, such as the decision in the National Assembly on the disposal of ten or more years of old cars and other things, but obviously this is a problem of trust that has not been built between the Government and the National Assembly, that the government is a good host and that it will also be able to deal with issues such as the disposal of unnecessary, even burdensome property of the State, and that is why this provision has been introduced into these acts that regulate it. At this point, I would not want this mistrust to be deepened and to force some decisions that no one has ever noticed before, but these things are, I have been following because I was interested in some things in particular from one other aspect, because some of them do not want to get rid of the state's arms and be in state ownership and withdraw every so long, even though they were on the list for 2000, 2001, 2002, but somehow they are at war to get away and continue to be in this state's arms and come into the state budget and finance certain things. However, I know and I am sure that those things that should be on the market, especially as regards certain investment and other matters, are part of the airport of various other stories, that I am not talking about the DDC and similar companies that should be on the market, but that they are by no means possible, I will say, after this procedure, put an end to them. Therefore, I propose that we change the decision in this sense, in a way that allows for the disposal of cars and small inventory and I know what it is there, if the Government is urgently required to do so now probably in this financial year, that the other part that talks about buildings, land and various other matters should decide on this in the coming meeting. However, if it is time for this to be redistributed into individual segments, including this, cars and small inventory, and I do not know what is being copied there, then let us all do it at the November session, so that the committee will do it again and get those answers that it has not received or that individual Members have not received. I suggest this in particular from one simple point of view - I don't want to be in some situation again, to be seen with a finger, they're selling, they're forcing, they're forcing, they're forcing, they're saying, because I don't even know where they are, and what they're for, but I know when I'm reading these things, that it's not the same thing, or you're selling some property or some building, some land or you're selling at the end of an old table, or more than a ten-year-old car that's already depreciated by the rules that they are. So that would even have to go there for a write-off so that it doesn't burden things on the balance sheets. At this point, I can't rephrase the proposal. No, I don't know, I know him, of course. But since Mr Podobnik has started some procedure for proposing a decision, or we can make this decision in a way that allows us to sell what we are not interested in, and we do not need to be interested in the National Assembly, but the rest should be done in the coming month, if not, if this cannot be done in this way, I suggest that we fully consider this point at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u49	Before I give my word forward, and I will give it, irrespective of the two proposals that have been made, my colleague, Podobnik and colleague Anderlič, the following. The National Assembly will decide on the SLS proposal. If this proposal had not been voted on, therefore, to place this point entirely at one of the forthcoming meetings, then we could vote on the proposal by colleague Anderlič, and of course the colleague Anderlič should be more precise in the proposal, which is the part of the decision, so the amendment should be made which part of that decision concerns, in his opinion, an area on which the national assembly may speak a second time. Therefore, I propose that we now conclude the debate to vote on the proposal by our colleague Sponik. If the proposal of a colleague of Mr Podobnik had not been adopted, I would have ordered that the point should be suspended so long as colleague Anderlič could consult and table a proposal to be voted on during today's meeting. Comrade Wolf, you have the floor behind you, Comrade Podobnik. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Just a minute. My friend Kelemin [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Since Vila Bled belongs to the constituency in which I was elected, I have waited for some time to hear what is in doubt and what is wrong. Look, first of all because of the correctness of colleagues and colleagues who don't know this area. It does not claim that Vila Bled or any land belonging to this complex of former protocol facilities belongs to the TNP area. That's not true. So we're not dealing with the TNP area here. Even if it were the TNP, of course, there should be a prior procedure under the nature conservation law and so on. It's a building plot, and I have no doubt about the data listed. Then I can also question the details of the holiday home with the kitchen, dining room and the plot, where one square is indicated. As far as I know, this information is real. In order to make it easier to say that most of these lands under these 6,638 by municipal spatial acts, according to the municipal planning documents, the municipality has been defined as a building plot since the'remembrance', since this assembly is not a new building, this is an object that has been there for many years, it is a protocol facility. The other areas listed are defined as green areas, namely, a park where consent must be obtained for any intervention in the space, since this is protected both by the law on protection of cultural heritage and by the law on the protection of cultural heritage. So there's no ad hoc interventions here, as it was somehow feeling like now someone's gonna be building up there. I know very well, not just the protocol facility, the villa inside, I know the whole park. Also, the tenant who performs hotel functions in this facility does not want to destroy the essential quality of this space in such a way as to build some additional capacity is something else. Let me also say that the entire area belongs in the lake's buffer zone, Lake Bley, where there is a special protection regime. I personally see no reason to delay this conclusion, because I do not think we can influence these facts. I myself understand this decision in this direction, that the government will initiate the procedure, and I will personally support this decision. And I hope that the government will immediately initiate a reselling procedure in accordance with the law, taking into account all the legal provisions that have been pointed out here. Finally, this facility with a new owner, whoever it is, with a clear focus on the development of tourism will contribute significantly to a qualityer tourist offer in Bled and this part of Gorenjska. That is why I will be in favour of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u51	I do not wish to impose a decision on the national assembly, but I think it would be useful now, Comrade Podobnik, because it is your turn to vote on your proposal, because if the national assembly could vote to postpone this decision, then the discussion will continue; then we have here a proposal from colleague Anderlič. In this way, I think it would be only possible to determine first whether this debate will continue or whether it makes sense to exchange arguments further. Comrade Companion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you, President. I agree with you. First of all, I would like to express my positive intention to discuss the debate of honourable Member Toneto Anderlic. If there is a business option, we are prepared to reclassify our proposal and to summarise its proposal in its entirety. We don't want to stall. All we can do is accept today, but I think it would be hygienic to make a political decision to confirm today's decision to sell the Villa Bled complex, to take another month of time.This is a political decision to sell such an important complex. Second thing, trust in the government. As the leader of the parliamentary group, which is a government party, I want to act in a way that shows respect and confidence in the government. This is not a criticism of all those who have prepared this program, but we have shown that we have prepared for this point at a segment called the Bled Villa Complex. Our view is to let us consider together whether it is necessary to go to this sale or not. That's why I did the show.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u53	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u54	That's why I did the show. Thank you, Comrade Puck, for this warning, about the complex and the status. You know, his performance gives me further arguments for my previous words. If there's not a square metre in Triglav National Park, then the procedure is even easier to re-qualify. Yes, you can. But let's keep this open. If possible, president, five minutes break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u55	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u56	The Group would like to summarise my colleague Anderlich's proposal to take decisions, but in the decision we should exclude a decision or a proposal from the Government that the sale of the Bled villa's protocol facility should also begin and the rest should be taken today. Our proposal is ready to change, to put its position into place, and then we would vote on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u57	Comrade Podobnik, regarding the complexity of the conclusion and the preparation of the amendment, it seems to me that 5 minutes will be too short. My proposal would be that if the entire national assembly agreed with him to break this point, to go to the others and during vacations, for example in secret ballots, we would have enough time to prepare this amendment on a pedantic basis. Or, the National Assembly agrees with such a decision to end this item of the agenda, and to go on to the next, in this time of day, colleague Podobnik, now as the first to propose a procedural decision, will find a solution in his communication with colleague Anderlic, as the second to propose a solution. Let's go to agenda 37.36. So it is interrupted, and we will certainly decide on it in the course of this session. 37. POINT OF THE DAYS, THAT IS THE REVENUE OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE REPORT ON ECONOMIC SOCIETYS, ENTITIES OR INSTRUMENTS, FOR WHICH, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FIRST PARAGRAPH, 20. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. This amendment to the report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Under the Act of Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, the Commission proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, shall be prohibited from doing business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment to the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're moving to the vote. We vote on the proposed decision. Peace in the hall. We vote on the proposed decision. We're in the middle of a vote. 56 present. 54 Members and Members for, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're at 38. Daily agenda points, in the case of man-favoral affairs. The assembly will consider under this item on the agenda, a proposal for a decision establishing a Council for the Public Sector Wage System, a proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund and a proposal for a decision on the election to a judicial function. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual proposals. We will first decide on the proposal for a decision establishing a Council for a public sector wage system. This proposal was submitted to the State Assembly by the Government. Does the Minister want a word? [[He does.]] May I have your attention in the hall, please? Mr. Minister, Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u58	Your Honor! Article 34 of the Law on the Public Sector Wage System provides for the establishment of a specific body, namely a public sector Wage System Council, a body that assumes its powers of monitoring, law enforcement, policy-making. This body shall be composed of two parties, which shall be governed by law by the participation of the public authorities and the local community, by the employees and representative unions. In the preparation of this regulation, the proposed decision has been renamed a decree and some other editorial amendments, which have also been supported by the Internal Policy Committee. The Government proposes that these amendments be adopted or supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u59	This has been addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite them to present their views, if they so wish, to the parliamentary groups. Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendments. I'm gonna hang up for a second. You have an amendment review ahead of you. These were given on the 10th of this month and are on the five sides. We have the amendment of DeSUS, LDS, SLS and ZLSD. I'm opening a debate. Doesn't anyone want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we shall vote on the amendment under order number one to the introduction. We're voting! 57 present. 49 for and 2 for [[..]] [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. To the title and to chapters 1, 4, 6 and 9 we have a proposal for amendments to the same groups of Members. I'm opening a debate. [[There's no debate.]] I'm closing it and we're moving on to a decision. We're voting! 59 present. 48 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have an amendment to the text of all sections of the same parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. 61 in attendance, 52 in and 1 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment. To the first chapter, we have the amendment of four groups of Members. I'm opening a debate. I conclude it and put it to the vote. The amendment to the first section has been adopted. Of the 52 present, 44 voted in favour and none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] To the second section, we have the amendment of four groups of Members. I am opening the debate and closing it and putting an amendment to the vote. We're voting. 58 present, 46 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. These four parliamentary groups have also tabled an amendment to the third section. I'm opening the debate, closing it and putting an amendment to the vote. 53 present, 45 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The four members of the group also made an amendment to the fourth section. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and putting an amendment to the vote. We're voting. 59 in attendance, 46 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. The Internal Policy Committee shall make an amendment to the fifth section. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the committee to the fifth section. Peace in the hall. Secondly, we will vote on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. Attention, please, for peace in the hall. We're voting on the amendment. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 60 in attendance, 45 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment of the committee. Finally, we have the amendment of the four groups of Members to chapter seven. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing it. I'm putting an amendment to the vote. 60 in attendance, 49 in and 1 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that we have accepted this amendment and have completed the vote on the amendments. This will give us a full vote on the proposal for a decision. Before the vote, anyone wants a word to explain their vote? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the proposal for a decision as a whole. We vote on the proposal for a decision as a whole. 63 present, 53 for and none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have fully adopted the proposal for a decision. This allows us to take a decision on the Government's proposal to amend the decision appointing members of the Prešeren Fund Management Board. The proposal was put before the council by the government. Does the Minister want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] There's no debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing the members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote on the proposal for a decision. 56 present, 46 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the Government's proposal to amend the decision has been adopted. Finally, we have a proposal from the Judicial Council for a judicial election. The Council of Justice proposes that Mrs Branko Drozg be elected to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Brežice. Would you like a representative of the Council of Justice? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] There's no debate. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on election to a judicial function - please pay attention - to Ms Branke Drozg to the district court in the District Court in Brežica. We're voting. 60 present, 51 for and one against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it Mrs Branko Drozg has been elected to court. We are now moving on to the 38th A Dot of the Day - Defence Proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the candidate for a judge at the International Criminal Court. Mr Milan Kučan, President of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed to the Assembly, under Article 6 of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts, that Dr Boštjan M. Zupančič be elected as a candidate for a judge in an international criminal court. Does Dr. Miha Ribarič, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, want to further explain this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the President of the Election Commission want a word? [[Neither do I.]] Do qualified discussers want a word? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? Yes, my colleague Micah Brace. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u60	Mr President, I have a procedural question whether it is possible for a vote on point 38a and a vote to be taken at the same time, let's say that the debate is being held, so that we can get two ballots together and do it so that we don't waste time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u61	Yeah. This will also result in a vote. We will discuss each and every one of them, but we will vote on both together, so that both of them will be on separate ballots. Anyone else want a word? Okay. Nobody wants to talk anymore. We will vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic after we have held a debate on the proposal for the next 38.B agenda, the motion by the President of the Republic for the election of the candidate for the International Court of Justice for Rwanda. On the basis of the same law, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan, proposed to the Parliament, Mr Paul Dolenc, a candidate for the International Criminal Court for Rwanda. Does Dr. Fishery want a representative for the Cabinet? [[No, no, ……]] He wants the president of the election commission? [[No, no, ……]] Members of the parliamentary groups would like a word? The MPs and the MPs? [[Yeah.]] Please, you have the floor. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will repeat what I said on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group to Mr President of the State at a short consultation that we did not know enough about this to Mr Paul Dolenc. Since he had a long history of membership in the prosecution in various places, it seemed inappropriate for us to support him. Indeed, we must only respect certain dignity in state relations and also in human relations. It seems to me that the person who has been in the State Prosecutor's Office for so long, right in the age of the regime, which has put a lot of pressure on those times, seems to me that it is necessary for the President of the State, as well as all members of our Parliament, to start thinking a little about who is fit for what kind of function. It is certain that if Mr Dolenc were here, I would ask him some questions. In addition, a magazine recently published some information about it that it seized, I think, even Youth or something like that, which I don't find strange about those times. One would think that the appointed person to the Court of Human Rights is inappropriate, which is why we will vote against it, and I also call upon all of you to face the situation that has been and the people who have participated in this situation and do not give them confidence in such important positions as the Court of Human Rights in Rwanda or anywhere. We would also need one such court to consider some things, but unfortunately this will not happen. But I think we're gonna have to come by every time we have to tell you what happened to some man who's been appointed by the President for this function. Otherwise, the President of the State should examine these matters first and only then be appointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u63	Anyone else want a word? Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u64	I will, of course, support this proposal because I believe that the arguments that have just been said do not hold, or otherwise, that the verification of the candidate’s professional competence and impartiality or even more confirmed in international situations and that it would be rather strange, or that it might be understood that something was wrong with the candidate also in the first term, which he carried out in an international criminal court as a judge, as was the case in the documents we received for this session or before the President of the State proposed a candidate again for that court, it was explicitly stated and said that it was also the wish of the international institutions to continue the work in that court. I think it's right to mention some of the things in the past in one way or another, to know what the candidate was doing, but if it smells like lustration without a reasonable indication, it might be bad. I happen to know things about Youth, in which it is mentioned, because I was on the other side, I had to go to that court to defend myself against the confiscating of Youth, but this is another story and, of course, it belongs to personal memories and I do not burden myself with it ever, if you have noticed, others in the Chamber. It bothers me, however, if someone uses these arguments for something that they would like to achieve, so they say that someone in the previous regime has already been carrying some functions, some work, and therefore cannot be the carrier of certain things in the future. Nor would it have struck me if, at the very end of the day, a presidential campaign had taken place, in which I also felt that some candidates and candidates in the previous regime had performed certain functions and certain works and should therefore also be included on this list, that they no longer have confidence and verification in this regime, which is now. But I'm finishing up what I said at the beginning. Mr Dolenc was confirmed, not only within the Slovenian state, and is not proposed for merit or for such or otherwise functioning in the system until 1991 and 1990, but because he proved himself a judge in this mandate, which expires at the international criminal court in Rwanda, and is therefore re-proposed. And, of course, I will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u65	A colleague of mags. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I don't want to pour any oil on fire, and I don't want to do any injustice to Mr. Dolenc. However, in order to avoid any suspicion, I would of course kindly ask the President of the State or the representative of his cabinet to explain these matters. Indeed, Mr Dolenc is not anyone and does nothing and has not performed any functions in the previous system, but the most exposed. That's why I think it's necessary to judge what it is. Secondly, whether in the international public they knew about his functions and his duties and his activities, those which he himself activated in the previous regime - so that the phenomenon of Kurt Waldheim would not happen to us. Kurt Waldheim had a good career in the United Nations, and then he later found himself a shadow, and you don't want him in his home country. This could expose the country to post-festum, although he may have already done so. I just want the representative of the Cabinet of the President of the State to explain what is going on with these functions, how much this can have on us as a country to stand out in an international space. To this we are entitled to find out, it is not a matter of lustration, but it is that we Members and citizens are aware of who we are delegating to the international public, because it is also the Ambassador of Slovenia abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u67	Would you like to respond, Mr. Fisherman? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I'd like to say the following. According to the law proposing candidates for judges of international courts in the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice is competent to determine whether the registered candidates for the invitation to tender issued by the Ministry of Justice comply with the conditions required by the law. If the Ministry of Justice finds that they do not comply with these conditions, then rejects their candidacy by means of an act, has the right to judicial protection affected, and the law also lays down deadlines. In short, the matter is very clearly defined and it is not the President of the Republic who would have identified with these candidates for judges of international courts whether someone meets the conditions. That's the first thing. That's another thing. The Ministry of Justice has explicitly stated in its proposal that the applicant fulfils the conditions that he is eligible. Then, according to the law, the President of the Republic obtained the opinion of the Government, which is positive, he obtained the opinion of the Judicial Council, which is also positive. Perhaps the most interesting thing to not overlook is that this candidate was [[...]] [[I'd like to ask for some attention, because I was specifically invited to say something.]] That this candidate was elected as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in 1997 in this National Assembly. At that time, as you and we know very well, all these elections take into account the specific provision of the Judicial Service Act, or those who have already served in the judiciary, whether they fulfil the conditions or not, at that time there was no minimum comment and this candidate was given the confidence of the State Assembly. It is said that the National Assembly has already given its trust, it has already assessed. If he allows me to say what was published in the magazine that the applicant has initiated a procedure, the court has decided differently throughout the proceedings. What a violation of human rights, if I may say so directly, is out of the question. And it's not the President of the Republic who can figure it out. Here, by law, unlike the case for a judge of the Constitutional Court, it is now quite clear how this procedure is proceeding. The President of the Republic did not have the slightest reason to withdraw his proposal after publication in this magazine. And, of course, it is not to be overlooked that the candidate has been a candidate for three years and that the second year will continue to be a judge, that his current term of office of this international court will expire, even after the regulation in force there, should, even if he had not been re-elected and then elected in the Security Council, have to finish all his affairs. If he had finished there, whether this mandate, or had not been elected to return to Slovenia, the law expressly gave him the right to return to the post of Judge of the Supreme Court. This is a real situation now. I think it's right that I explained this to you directly. It is also true that what was said in the debate was that in the rounds of the United Nations they expressed a particular interest that the Slovenian judge Dolenc would still be given a new mandate and that is why in the Security Council they extended the invitation to tender as you could see, I believe, from a lot of extensive documentation. This allowed Slovenia to re-candidate this personality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Dr. Fisherman. You have the floor, Comrade Potsch. No one else.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much. According to Dr. Fisherman's explanation, there's probably not much to talk about. However, I would like to point out that, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have supported the candidacy of the President of the country and that we intend to support it today. It seems appropriate for us to be aware, when we are talking about specific people, that only the general estimates of some past work, even before 1990, cannot be the basis for a negative assessment, even when it comes to judicial functions and functions within the framework of the Prosecutor's Office. The fundamental criterion at that time must also be respect for the legality and possible specific comments and evidence of participation in processes where there has been a clear violation of human rights. As long as there are no such requirements, everything else is a flat-rate statement. Mr President, I expected you, but because you are not, I will do it, and I will say that any comparison of Nazism with the years before 1990 is offensive to the country. And whoever is doing this is doing this country harm, even in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u71	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a vote on both proposals by the President of the Republic concerning 38.a and 38.b. on the agenda. In accordance with Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the State Assembly on the election of a candidate for a judge in an international criminal court and a candidate for an international criminal court for Rwanda shall vote in secret. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the Commission, composed of the chairmen and four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. The Commission will also be assisted in the implementation of the vote by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members of the Commission. This is a colleague of Rudi Mogue, Branko Kelemina, Aurelio Juri and Sonja Areh Lavrič. I, too, am a member of this committee as President. Does anyone object to this proposal? [[Nobody.]] Then we shall vote on such a composition of the Commission. We vote on the composition of the commission. 51 present. 50 for and no one against. [[The vote was 50. (Nobody.]] The Commission is therefore elected in the proposed composition. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Members shall be given a vote by each Member to the President's table and shall state his name and surname. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the word ZA or PROTI on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, an individual candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask my colleagues to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will start at 11 a.m. and 55 minutes and will continue until 12.15 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll continue at 12:25. Let me repeat the hours: at 11.55 the vote begins, 12.15 the end of the vote, 12.25 the announcement of the results and the continuation of the work of the National Assembly. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u72	I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to come back to the large debate room of the National Assembly. We'll continue the session. Please come to the hall. I'll be back in exactly three minutes. At 12.33 I ask everyone to come to the hall to announce the outcome of the vote on the elections of the two candidates. Then I suggest that we continue and do not take a lunch break, so that we try to finish the meeting for about a good hour. Mr Podobnik submitted this proposal, which was linked to the Government's decisions on the sale of State property, so that it is also possible to decide on this. Colleagues and colleagues, we are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We are at the point of the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect candidates for judges in international courts. May I have your attention in the hall, please? I will inform the National Assembly of the outcome of the vote. First, I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the election for the candidate being a judge in an international criminal court. The vote was held at the Assembly premises today, 25 October 2002. 68 ballots were distributed, just as many were delivered. One was invalid. It was 67. 55 Members and Members voted for the candidate, against 12. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Boštjan M. Zupančič was elected by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members as Judge in the International Criminal Court. On behalf of everyone, I congratulate him on his election. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the candidate for International Court of Justice for Rwanda. The vote was taken today, 25 October 2002. 68 ballots were distributed, just as many were delivered. None valid, all valid. 51 Members and Members voted in favour, against 17. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Pavel Dolenc was elected as a candidate for the International Criminal Court for Rwanda and also on behalf of the National Congratulation Assembly and both sincere, good wishes for work in both courts. This concludes this agenda item. We continue to make decisions. As it is said to inform the National Assembly, my colleague, Janez Podobnik, on behalf of the SLS Group of Members, has already tabled an amendment to the decision on the disposal of state property. Once it's divided, we'll decide on it. So I suggest we move on to Continuation 2. Agenda items - Third Defence Proposal for an Explosives Act. We had a second hearing on Tuesday. No amendments have been tabled to the proposed law. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are now moving on to a third, namely the decision on the bill itself. I'm asking if anyone would like a word before deciding to explain their vote. I'm guessing there's no one. I'm putting the bill to a vote. Let's vote on the amended bill. 46 present. 41 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving on to Continuation 3. Agenda items - Third Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity. This proposal for a law is also subject to the findings set out in the previous point. We've completed our second treatment. No amendments were adopted. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to the third reading, namely the decision on the law as a whole. Anybody want a word before that? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting to the vote a bill. We're voting! 49 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're on the 4th. Agenda items - Third draft law on the love of Members in the European Parliament from our country. No amendments were tabled. We are in the third treatment and decision-making of the law as a whole. Anybody want to explain their voice before that? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the bill. We're in the middle of a vote on the bill. 50 in attendance, 48 in and 2 in. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're in a decision at 5:00. Points of the agenda, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. No amendments were adopted to the draft law. We are moving on to the third reading, the decision on the law as a whole. I find that no one wants a word and that the National Assembly can decide on the adoption of the law. Please. 49 present, 43 for and 2 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're at 6. Agenda items - Third Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Law on Righteous Procedure. We're ahead of making a full decision on the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will vote on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on fair procedure. Please, we're voting. 49 present, 46 for and none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that we have adopted a proposal for a law. We'll continue with seven. Agenda item - Third defence motion for a law on cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the International Criminal Court. We're ahead of making a full decision on the law. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We will vote on the bill. 49 present, 46 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it we've passed the law. We're at 8. Agenda items - Third draft law on the regulation of public interest in culture. The National Assembly held this hearing on Tuesday, 22 of this month. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly then adopted the proposal by the proposer and decided that, on the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, we will have a third hearing today. That is how we are now in the middle of the third hearing. You have a review of the amendments adopted and the articles of the amended law to which these amendments have been adopted [[This is the document you have on your hands from 25.10.]] . We have the amendments to the four articles, first to Article 10, namely the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word on this? Can we move on to a decision? Excuse me, Madam Secretary? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. A fellow school, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u73	Are we discussing all the amendments at the same time?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u74	No, we will go about each one individually - to this article so that we do not interfere with the discussion. If there are more amendments to one article, we will discuss all of them, or we will discuss each article individually. We are therefore under Article 10 and the only amendment tabled by the Government. In the absence of an explanation of vote or discussion, I will put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. The amendment was accepted. Of 51, 46 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The Government has also tabled an amendment to Article 28. Anybody want a word? Please, colleague Majnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. This article is in the first [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u76	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u77	and, in fact, in the second treatment, quite scolding. [[...]] And this supplement, which has now come from the government service, in the first part, “public cultural goods referred to in the preceding paragraph are provided as public services or under the same conditions and in the manner applicable to public service” is quite incomprehensible. The more we read it, the less we actually understand it. In Article 28, we believe that the diction adopted in the second reading is quite clear and precise. And I'd like to ask for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u78	Anyone else want a word before I give my word to the secretary? Madam Secretary, can you explain? Please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u79	Respectable National Assembly. On the contrary, the Government, the proposer, considers that those who make it clear that public cultural goods, when it comes to public service, are provided in three ways: as public service, in public service or under conditions such as public service. This shall cover all potential operators who, under this Article, have the possibility to provide public cultural goods under the public service regime with State aid. These doctrines, which we have written, do not change the content of anything, but, following the guidance of the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, given even after the adoption of the completed text, they make the same point even more clear. Therefore, the Government considers it advisable to adopt this text precisely for reasons which the honourable Member points out.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u80	Anyone else want a word? Please. You have the floor. Please don't knock the rest of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u81	If we follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, this service points to the first paragraph of the adopted amendment in the second reading, where it says that the expression is needed directly in the first paragraph, where we speak, directly to us or in the way of the public service, to amend the word so as to read more clearly "with the organisation of the public service" instead of the word "directly". The new amendment, which is here, extends the possibility of all those operators operating in a public service manner, which means that there will also be a wide variety of societies in this article, not just some that will operate in a public service way. This means full funding.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u82	Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. The last paragraph, which is proposed, gives exactly the right and the power to say who, apart from public institutions, may enter into this regime, to the sectoral laws adopted by this honourable assembly. Thus, there is no danger against the will of the national assembly, so that this can happen, as you point out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u84	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. We will now vote on the Government's amendment to Article 28. Please, we are voting on the Government's amendment to Article 28. The amendment was adopted, of 57, supported by 48 colleagues and 1 opposed it. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] Thus, we have adopted this amendment and are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to delete Article 87 a/. It was filed by the Liberal Democracy Chamber Club. Anybody want a word? A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u85	Dear colleagues! The Law on Public Interest in Culture says that public interest is also guaranteed through different carriers, to be briefly referred to as through institutions, institutions and independent cultural workers in their introductory explanations. Ergo are independent cultural workers one of the constituents of this provision of public interest. The censorship as a form of limiting social rights contributions is, in spite of everything, something that speaks of social adjustment, but not about the system in this area. I am not saying that censorship is not possible, but I think it is unnecessary at this point, if I don't say, limiting some exceptions. Under certain conditions, independent cultural workers shall be entered in the register and the right to contribute may be obtained only when they have fulfilled the conditions laid down in the regulation to be adopted by the Ministry. However, this Regulation should specify which professions are deficient and which achievements are exceptional. This is all in marriage and these articles are adopted and not touched. It is said that the distribution of these rights, I will say, can be one of the key elements of cultural rather than social policy. If we compare this to numbers and I'll tell you at a point where the censorship of a potential freeman's contact with someone who works in a public institution is said to be comparable, then you have to say that public finances cost, I'll say, regularly employed, as in education, in science, anywhere in the field of culture at this point, that I won't say any number too much, about 4 million 624 thousand. The payment of contributions at this point, as far as the Freemasons are concerned, is 650 thousand. This means that seven times between those in the public office and those I am speaking on purpose again, they are doing this profession as freemen in the public interest. The second thing to say is that someone who achieves this censorship, which for the current year is 3 million 583 thousand, pays these income contributions to cash registers 1 million 339. That's twice as much as he gets from this address. Third, what is true is that those who are employed in the public sector do not have, or rarely have, the limitations to work on a part-time basis. It is said that the director of a theatre can perform on television as a director, can perform in humorous shows, can sing, can write and so on. From that point of view, it doesn't hit him in that public work. When we talk about this "fosher", if someone is serving a lot as a freeman, it is necessary to know that a freeman at some point falls into this trap to say that he may not be paid any more. What's the problem with this censorship is that when someone loses this censorship, they have to pay their own contributions next year. Then, of course, he can have it again. I'm not going to talk about names, but there have been many cases when someone has been preparing the project for more than a year or more, in one year he has picked up more authors' fees and in the next year, for example, he has no income again and he has paid again. Stories can be very dramatic at a personal level. But what's true in spite of everything is that if the censorship is lifted, it doesn't mean that someone won't know how much Shankanga gets from the country, because I've already shown you with numbers that already at this point they're paying from these contributions, if we're only comparing wages, more than they get, by making most of these people work with contracts, which means that they're also extra budgeted under copyright contracts. This means a truly stable social status and social security, and from this point of view, I think it makes sense to support this. Otherwise it'll look like anyone who works in culture can, I don't know, hypothetically earns, but not at this point. But that's not the point. The point is that if the ministry is afraid of financial consequences, it must draw up very precise criteria, to whom it gives them and to whom it does not give them. And for this is the basis of the law, and for this there can be no basis in censorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much. First, I will give my word to my colleague Kangler, his colleague, his colleague Bevk, his colleague Juban and then his minister, in turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I will not support this amendment. I am surprised, though I respect every individual's decision that this amendment has been tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the whole parliamentary group. That surprises me very much. That someone will not misunderstand me: I respect all the independent cultural workers, but here we have to separate - those who are young who are at the beginning of the path that they have started to create, and those who are already [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Can you calm Mr Anderlich down so that, in accordance with the rules of procedure that he has adopted, I can complete my thought?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u88	Please, you have the floor, but only for the subject matter. I've done it many times, and I'm going to do it again, and I'm going to ask you to do it again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u89	That is exactly what is happening, President, that Mr. "Stakeholder" is saying that he has 60 votes, and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u90	Please, I do not allow this debate in Parliament, nor do you. You have the right to speak on the subject of discussion, and no one is allowed to speak to you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u91	But you let him tell me he has 60 votes?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u92	Please, colleague Anderlich, I don't think this anxiety is necessary right now. We're in the middle of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u93	That's exactly what I said once. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u94	Please, Comrade Kangler, be considerate of everyone. But everyone else, I'm asking them to give peace. The only one who has a word is a colleague of Kangler's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u95	I would ask if I had respect for everyone else, that also the gentleman who speaks on the other hand has respect for me as an MP, not as a member of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u96	My friend Kangler has the floor. [[The ad from the bench.]] My friend Kangler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u97	Who's the president of the National Assembly now?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u98	Please, colleague Kangler has the floor. You have the floor, and I beg you to proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u99	Anyway, I'm not going to support this amendment. And I was very surprised that liberal democracy as a parliamentary group had tabled this amendment. I have all the respect for Mr. Skolcz, but today I would like to ask you: how will some other professors and others react? How those young artists in culture will see that some are selling art paintings for 400,000, while we write down the social rights censorship and some come with 50,000. We have a legal state and we have legal rights after what colleague Školč says. But we don't have social rights. Everybody's the same. And if me and all the other workers who make 70 or 100 grand a month, then they have to pay those who pay for the 400 grand or for one concert, they have 5 or 10 concerts a month. Once again, I would like to say that, above all, to young creators, to those who are on the road, and to write off the social rights censorship. And I am for those, but not for the average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u100	Buddy Bevk. He withdrew his application. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. I'm not going to support the amendment myself, Comrade Skolcz. Indeed, in the second reading, we supported and reintroduced in the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture the so-called income tax on payment or the right to pay social security contributions from the State budget for independent creators in the field of culture. This right also entails the obligation of the State budget. And this obligation is in 2002
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u102	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u103	amounted to 815 million. [[...]] We have 2,144 creators from 8 different activities in our view or in this description. At present, 1437 beneficiaries have the right to payment of the contribution. If we take into account the proposal of our colleague, then the Ministry should pay an additional 607 beneficiaries, which would amount to almost 400 million tolars. In this case, it is not only a concept of cultural policy for independent creators, but it is also a very important social issue. I do not think it is right to equalise all independent creators in such a way that they are all entitled to this right, to this social right, to pay these contributions. What is particularly interesting is that we have 8 activities in the field of literature, translation activities, art, theatres, movies, music, dances and design, so that two activities come out in particular. This is the design where designers and architects are involved, as well as the music area where some very famous performers of modern or fun music are included in Slovenia. In the area of design - it is said, we would include exactly 382 architects and designers or designers additionally - from 2.144; it is said 382 in this area. You can see this for yourself now, even in the field of the campaign, how much they charge the "different ones" that provide services to political parties; otherwise, the services of designers and architects are not so cheap and I do not know that this is a particularly endangered social category. There would also be 87 new entries in the field of music, so I think it is right to follow the direction of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and not support the amendment of colleague Školč. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u104	This is the amendment of the LDS Club of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u105	Excuse me. I'm sorry. This is an amendment from the LDS Group or the LDS Club, although I must say this, although it is not for the general use that we have agreed on a different solution in coalition coordination than they now offer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Comrade Juban, you have the floor. I'll give you my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Nor will I support this amendment, although this amendment has been tabled - according to the obvious - on a purely democratic path, because most of us have decided to put it in place. This amendment has been tabled correctly and we have no comments here. But I'm not going to back him up for more than one reason. One of these is, why only in culture? We have in culture certain exceptions in the past when individuals who have not contributed to the pension fund receive exceptional pensions. We also had the opportunity to monitor the public's reaction to this, but the matter then quieted down and is as it is. Today we have a similar story on the table. I don't mind if there may be some social demagogies, but on the other hand, see, in the morning they will recover from employees on the way to court, I don't know when the regress paid, which may have been illegally paid. And we're going to be here for people with extraordinary incomes, not people with 20,000, 30,000, 50,000, 100,000 monthly income. It's about people who are exceptional in their creativity, and this extraordinaryness is paid. It's a few hundred thousand or millions a month. And now they're going to get those - up to 280,000 - write-offs, and here goes on forever. And of course, if it's now a calculation I don't know how many hundred million, then this thing can be potentized, multiplied. I don't buy either, I don't accept a financial comparison that these write-offs amount to 600,000, but if he got a job at the state service, he'd be 105 million. Where does it say that all these people will be able to work if we have a national orchestra with twenty violinists - but does this orchestra then have an additional forty on the national payroll? So these arguments didn't convince me - there are more. But it wouldn't seem like I'm running a social demagogy. These things stand out so much that, at this point in this country, we should not afford it and I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u108	Madam Minister, now you have the floor. There are no other applicants, other than your colleague Partič, behind you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear National Assembly, Mr. President! In the debate on the first and second readings, I would argue today once again that the two articles are rejected or not supported. That is, the government, the Ministry of Culture, has drawn up a law. In the chapter on social rights and the removal of these two articles, it also means the abolition of the entire chapter. We believe that this has also been argued on the Committee on Finance, as this is the reason why the budget adopted by the Government of the Ministry of Culture for the period 2003 and 2004. I very much agree with Mr Školč that the display of independent creators should be supplemented with new criteria and terminology, and in particular complement the new professions that have emerged in the last ten years in the field of culture. Nevertheless, we believe that the area of culture is so important in the historical process of the creation of the Slovenian people that it is special - and that it would not be excluded here from the field as the government has already allocated it to certain other areas of sport where we recognize individual creators, also by establishing censorship, farmers and other areas. Area of culture [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u110	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u111	The area of culture today, 2001 and 2001 recognises 1,437 persons to whom the State grants or pays the base for pension, disability and health insurance, and also recognizes the price of 3,580.000,00, which means net in the calculation of 290.000,00 dollars net monthly. This is also the amount from which we believe that the current situation in Slovenia allows for the payment of all the contributions that we owe, last but not least, to all citizens of this country. However, it is possible, as well as the law, to assume that the price increases every year, this is also said to increase the price as well as the net remuneration in the monthly account. That is why we are proposing, as I hear from the debate, that we really need a few more years to level up all the cultural creators and identify those who are of the highest quality. In doing so, I think we need, above all, the development of the cultural market and industry, which will enable self-employment and, above all, self-income for a decent life in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u112	My colleague Partlych and after him School.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u113	Perhaps you should explain your voice when we adopt the law in its entirety. In principle, I was very pleased with the adoption of this law, both by the people of the Ministry and by the committee who took up a lot of time. Unfortunately, at the last meeting of the Committee or at this meeting of liberal democracy, where this decision was adopted, I could not have objected for objective reasons, and I would not have wanted to be a member of the Committee to break what was agreed there. Without complicating it, I would somehow mention that these arguments that you listed here, of course, hold back in some way, in fact, by some logic from another world. In the logic of the creators, there are very significant stories, including from the past. You know Presher's daughter-- and that's when he published poetry-- died in an orphanage. That even to someone who can earn a year - now I have a case like this at home, which I see at home, is a daughter after 20 years of work, this censorship has broken, and now I am paying her a social one, which I am very happy to, because I also deserve enough; I am just saying that she could have fallen into a hole by herself. But that's not the sum. At times, we may also be confused with some aerobatic artists or something like that. So I think that the Skull proposal is not capricious, even if sometimes it seems so in other proposals. He's not capricious, he's a matter of reflection, and I think he's honest.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u114	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u115	I really thank Tone for this last sentence, and I can say that what I am defending is one of the things that I regret not being able to do at the time when I was in the ministry - I have been defending it all along, but I have been burning in various situations. But look, I'm gonna talk to those people who spoke here. Mr. Kangler says it's important to give young people a chance. The law gives this opportunity. The right to pay contributions to young people is possible under simpler conditions than if someone asks later, it is said, two years after he has completed his studies. But also for these rights it is necessary to have some recommendations and have some, I will say, outstanding at least success in the field of education. Whether this is the case or not, the higher-ups of these numbers that my colleague Bevk was talking about, I don't know. But this can be arranged on the basis of the law already in force and on the basis of what we are now making by this regulation. And the minister also says that a regulation may need to be finalized. I firmly believe that it must be completed for a simple reason, because it can be a key instrument of cultural policy. But if we revolve around these comparisons, which are all legitimate, how much someone deserves and how and in other sectors, then I repeat, the third and sixth times, this is not a debate on cultural policy, but on social policy. From this point of view, I can agree with my colleague Juban and others. But look, what Comrade Bevk says is misleading. My proposal - and I will now say - does not talk about everyone who is registered to receive the right to pay for the contribution. This number, which is said to be the result of the budget, is, if I understand these numbers right now, that the rest of them would get it. I've never advocated that. And I'm not defending it right now. And I won't defend it in the future. Because I find this to be devastating, and it seems to me like a waste of money in a lot of other areas. There is no difference between those who are enrolled and those who have this right to multiply by 650 thousand and say: that's how much the budget will cost. Justice can only be granted on the basis of what the law says, that people are exceptional and that professions are deficient. If that's not the case, then of course that makes no sense, then let's move this status out and out. Although at the employment office, because in this case these people would get more out there than they would get through this instrument. We'd get, like, that basic insurance and get, like, some of those minimum contributions, but I don't want to speculate about it. Look, he talks about how according to the structure of the entry are architects, writers and so on. Let us also consider what has happened in the last ten years. Ten years ago, the label was socially owned. And these publications were hired by writers. They hired Tonet Pavček, Nikot Grafenauer, not to list others, if you like, from different sexes. Today, the label no longer needs writers in the sense that they are there as writers, but writers need text. They don't have to be in the press to write texts. It was also a number of these people, so to speak, “parked” on TV and through other public services. We expect some effective work and organisation from all of these services. So they can't be a cultural dumping ground. Therefore, this status is still important and it is also important to maintain it through these instruments of exceptionality. Speaking of architects. What happened? On the one hand, university enrollment has increased and the number of graduates is high. The first to graduate from design do not have a 15-year diploma to avoid being misled, nor are there any public institutions that would directly employ them. In addition, at major construction companies where architects were busy, architectural bureaus fell apart. There's nowhere to work. From this point of view, they do this as a self-employed profession, so this is a disproportionate relationship between the different enrollments. There's a lot of art. Why? But all those who have managed to get to school or to the academy are, as they say, saved. They teach, but at the same time, they can create at the time they are left with them. From this point of view, it is misleading to pay everyone. I believe that a decent policy based on a decent regulation can even reduce the number of those paid to them. We have also done something in this law that has not been done before, which has allowed manipulation - that these signs are public. This moment cannot be spoken out loud about who has and who does not have, because it is data that falls under the protection of personal data. This law also brings transparency in this area. The data will be public. The pressure on the ministry, why he gave it to someone else, will, of course, be greater because of this, because you will see who is registered and who has this right. From this point of view, this censorship is some kind of anachronism. I'm not saying these people can't pay for it if they make more than 3.5 million. I said they already pay more than they get in this case. In fact, they get -- those who sigh, wave and so on -- get this censorship, this status, remember, because they do it in the public interest. That's where this is. And if I compare, say, with athletes, you have different solutions there. That's probably what my buddy Gaber's gonna talk about. One is the censorship to sign in - where it is, I think some three times some average salary. In the meantime, it must be said that there is another exception in the field of sport that we are not talking about: that those who are truly top-notch - and I would like to talk about them here - and those who have the opportunity to be employed in state bodies. And for this they get social security and some salary: airlifts on customs, either in the military, or in the police. And no one asks them if their sponsorship contracts weigh more than three times their salary. It is true, however, that they must achieve some result and I plead with the Ministry itself that it requires people to achieve results and that it gives those whom it considers to be too few in the market. In this sense, she can answer - not me, but the minister - to colleague Bevk: we will not give the architects because there are too many. That's a possible answer. Or because there's enough. But that doesn't go against what I'm suggesting. But believe me, it is not possible to transform culture beyond making it a more flexible system.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u116	Dr. Gaber, colleague of Bevk, was asked for a word, please colleague of Dr. Gaber's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you, President. I'm on it. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u118	I'm asking for peace. Can you re-engage, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not support it myself, but the reason is actually simple and composed of two. Firstly, I believe that there are areas, both within culture and other areas that are essential for serious reflection and possible allocation of resources, which, however, will have to be earmarked, such as this area that we are talking about here today, and another reason for fairness. I think it is simply that, while it is true that, if the funds were unlimited, it would also be wise to support the solution proposed by colleague Školč. However, since resources are not unlimited, those who propose this should consider this. And this thought leads me to complement it, but of course, I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u120	My best friend Bevk is the last on my list. My colleague Juban wants it, and then it's my colleague Partljič's turn. Please. I suggest that there are now somewhat shorter discussions and arguments here, because it would be good to move to the vote. Please, mate Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Let me repeat: it is not a cultural concept, it is also an eminent social issue. I repeat. In fact, the top athlete or athletes mentioned above have similar status [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u122	Wait, the phone is, can everyone take care of their own? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u123	is also applied to top athletes, but there are those, for whom the state budget pays and charges or the income price of three times the average income, which is less than before, but it is interesting: the country pays this contribution to thirty top athletes. [[...]] If we compare this to 2,144, which are included in the statement and 1.437, which is actually being paid for by these contributions from the State budget, this is a disproportionate situation. I don't know why we have such a small number of athletes in the field of sport paying for these contributions. After all, we have other creators and important people in the country who create in different areas. We have private researchers who are not entitled to any return from the state budget. 86. Article 86 states that the right to pay social security contributions in cases where the work of the creators is an exceptional cultural contribution or where it is a profession that must be supported in particular due to the human resources needs of the culture. But here we have between 2.144 inscribed self-creaters as 872 designers, architects. Is it really such a great need for human resources in culture that it is necessary to sign them up so massively and, of course, for them after the new, as proposed by the House of Representatives, to also pay social contributions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u124	Comrade Juban, colleague Partljič and Školč, in a row.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u125	Right now, I don't understand the differences in this problem about who gets on this list and who doesn't. The methodology of how you get into extraordinary achievements is one that is likely to be subjective, but that's not the question right now. The question is whether 290 - I think that such data is a minister - 290 000 net revenue per month for an individual pays all contributions to the pension and health treasury state. Next, and after this proposal, to infinity in those on the list. This thing doesn't seem fair to me, and I'll never back it up. And it would be good not to be supported by this solution, because it will cause a legitimate revolt in many of the people you are talking about or talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you very much. In particular, I thank you for the fact that the discussions are no longer so long. Comrade Partlych, then colleague of the School.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u127	I already said I'd support this amendment. Otherwise, I see another dangerous discussion, which has already been said in some way by my colleague Školč, and you took hold of it. When I begin to talk about how many of those who are on display, and how much over a thousand and how much we pay them, and how many designers, I say to you: in every authority I know, and in every state order there are absolutely too many writers. Why do we have so many writers and we all want some? [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] . There are too many players, too many musicians, too many painters. I haven't heard yet - for us, there are two million of us, but there are so many of you in the society of writers, and so many of you players if we're going to start discussing the principles here and do a lot of selection and non-young support on average - I don't want to be literary or unsettled in front of you, but once they've died - Murn and Kette, here in the Cukrana, so young, so young, and today the country has this corrective - every honor that it has - and, let's say, this thing is saved in this way. [[...]] If we start to eat this, and if this capitalist society thinks that we're only gonna pay what we need, no one's gonna dream, no one needs Prešern, only the way it's been to everyone. Therefore, it seems to me that we are going to this vote, and let us not start to spread the debate into something that might even become very painful.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u128	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u129	Of course, first of all, to those who are in pain, that perhaps somewhere else it is not arranged in a similar way, I would say that I would be happy to support it if we opened the laws there. I suppose it would be possible to organise a lot more effectively if we were to release, hypothetically, in these scientific institutions, research institutions, or higher education institutions, the possibility of more flexible organisation. I do not believe that this instrument we are talking about here can be tempting for top researchers or professors. Maybe it is. If it is, let's check it out and let's also do it because I told you it allows flexibility and basically costs less where I answer both to Mr Bevk and to Mr Gabr. Mr Bevk does not want to hear that I do not advocate that everyone who is enrolled must receive these contributions. I've never advocated that I don't repeat this discussion before. However, I do not hope to say that he will not drag me into a language for whom, but I believe that it would be possible to reduce the number of those who can have this right by means of transparent criteria, with the strict commissions that we have now introduced instead of one in two. Reduce, not increase. The data we got, but which was so unofficial, from the Ministry, is that maybe 70 people who lost their right because of the censorship are only 70. If you multiply 70 by 60, by 600,000, that's 35 million, not 280 - if we're talking about consequences, if nothing else changes. But this data, I don't think it's really possible at this point to get how many people could fall, with the unaltered criteria, from the regulation that they're top and low-cost, into this class. So it's not about getting everyone the money you want to do with this proposal, but it's about actually running politics. Mr Gaber asked whether there was another way to save part of it. Yeah, but it'll be more expensive. I will tell you about two areas that we do not have in national order, such as the Austrians, the Belgians and so on. One is a modern dance with us, but there is no professional theater. The establishment of a professional theatre for contemporary dance would have saved a number of people, but such an establishment alone would have meant more for this group of 20 to 30 people than for a practical group of 500 applicants in another status. The second is the area of these inter-network art, a video of art that is actually very old. We do not have national museums and national institutions for these two areas. We can do the same as at the libraries, like at the galleries, to set up for that. That would be the form that works. But if we did a calculation of what it means to set up two such new institutions, it would be said in vital areas of culture, it would show that these two institutions are once again costing -- no space, no infrastructure -- significantly more than that people maintain themselves in this status with these minimum rights. And what my colleague Juban is asking: it is not about the state paying up to 290 000 contributions. In any case, they are paid at a rate of 51 000, as far as these minimum contributions are concerned. While those who have 290 thousand pay and are in the same sector, we come to this gap, like smrekel, at the annual level, that it is over a million 300 paid contributions, while this is about 650 thousand. In any case: it is never paid for income, but for this minimum. And that's what we're talking about. Of course, I am aware that this is an anachronism and that this is some privilege higher-ups to other countries. But we are consciously keeping outside these institutions for years and years a large number of people so that they can work with them or at their expense under contracts. And that's what we're talking about. Therefore, I do not believe that this will have major financial implications, assuming that the law is fully implemented, but that it will absolutely relax what I have already said several times, the need to reorganise in this area. But if we're going to give these signals from here, like Partljič said, and that, then of course we're going to be in some kind of conflict with creativity. And I think it's dangerous. And from this point of view, it seems to me that it is an absolute political decision that can be made against some instrument of higher-a-vis people, who eventually get this deal from the minimum paid contributions to earn for bread, or, if you want, for a yacht. That's what we're talking about. It can't be for every opportunity to get a job in the public sector. It's a disaster, believe me. But if we don't open this up, then it'll be the only chance he'll get to work, because when he gets to work, he'll be able to do whatever the job lets him do, whatever it takes and whoever pays.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you very much. This was a rather comprehensive debate. We are at Article 87 and the proposal of the LDS Member Club to delete this. If this is not accepted, the amendment to Article 89 is also irrelevant. I propose that the State Assembly decide by vote. First, on the proposal to delete Article 87a. Who's up for it and who's up against it, please let us vote. 47 in attendance, 11 in and 31 in. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that it has not been adopted and therefore the proposal for an amendment to Article 89 is irrelevant in this respect. That's what we decided about the amendments. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I am now asking the legislature and the government if the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted is inconsistent. I do not have such a message, so the National Assembly can move on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We are voting on the law as a whole. We are voting on the law as a whole. 55 in attendance, 41 in and 9 in. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the National Assembly has passed the law. We're on the 10th. Agenda items, thirdly, the proposal for a law on research and development. We discussed this proposal on Wednesday, 24th this month. Since the amendments to less than a dozen articles were adopted in the second reading, we have decided to conclude the third reading today. Thus, in reviewing the amendments adopted and the articles of the amended law to which the amendments have been adopted. You have this review ahead of you. First of all, who wants a word on the bill as a whole? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll go to the decision on the amendments tabled to the article. We have three motions for amendments. Amendment to Article 11 first. The investor is the government. Then to Article 29 four of the parliamentary group - and again it rules by 29. If the proposal from the LDS, LLDS, LLDS, SLS and DeSUS are adopted, the amendment to Article 29, tabled by the Government, will be irrelevant. Is it clear to the National Assembly how we decide? Okay. Then we go first to Article 11 and the debate on the amendment proposed by the Government. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on the government's proposal for an amendment to Article 11. 55 present. 43 for and no one against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We now have a proposal from the four parliamentary groups for an amendment to Article 29. Anybody want a word? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, with the two-part amendment, we complement and define more precisely the content presented by the Government's proposal in the second reading, and we think that we are fully improving the text and also include the amendment tabled by the Government. It is, however, that, as stated in the Higher Education Act, the possibility of completing top-level higher education workers is also possible in the field of science for researchers. I therefore propose that the amendment of the four groups of Members be supported and, of course, after you have already found out, the amendment of the Government is unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u132	Anybody else want some? [[Nobody.]] Can we vote? We are voting on the proposal of the four parliamentary groups for Article 29, the amendment proposal. Please. Of 53, 45 Members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. At the same time, we have decided that the amendment to Article 29, which the Government is making, is irrelevant. I ask the competent authorities whether, after deciding on the amendments, the proposal for a law is inconsistent? [[Yes, it ……]] Please, a representative of the government. You're warning him he's out of line? Good. So there is no objection to coherence, so we are moving on to a full decision on the bill. We're voting. 55 present, 50 for and no one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the National Assembly has passed the law. This point is over. We're moving on to 11. Agenda item - Third Commentary Proposal for a Law on Basic Development Programmes in the Area of Education and Science. This proposal was discussed on Wednesday 23rd this month. No amendments were adopted in the second reading, so that we can now go to a full vote on the law. Anyone want a word before that? Yes, my colleague Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll be very brief. This law, as you can see through the procedure, has been adopted without major complications and is essentially the grandson of the first law adopted by the National Assembly before our term of office; then we have adopted this law by acclamation, which means that we have all voted in favour of the law that puts into young people and knowledge. And I'd ask my colleagues if they could do it this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u134	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on the law as a whole. 57 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been passed without a vote against. We're at 15. Agenda items - Third defence proposal for the law on the use of Slovenian Sign Language We talked about this on Wednesday as part of the second reading. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Please, colleague Jerovšek. [[...]] [[Oh, sorry, sorry! Excuse me!]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u135	We accept an apology. In the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, and we have therefore decided to make a final decision on the proposal for a law today in the third reading. So we're moving on to the third reading. You have received a proposal for adopted amendments and articles on the bench. There are no new amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we will vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. 55 present, just as much for, no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're at 18. Agenda items - Third defence within the framework of the shorter procedure of the draft law on amendments to and additions to the law on the protection of cross-cutting relationships. We discussed this on Thursday, on the 24th of this month, yesterday, the second reading, no amendments were adopted. The National Assembly may move on to a full decision on the law. I'm asking, does anyone want a word before that? [[Nobody.]] We're voting on the whole law! 53 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're at 23. Agenda items - Third defence of the proposal for a law amending the law on the first chamber composition of the Republic of Slovenia and recasting the authorised investment companies. We're in the middle of a reduced procedure. That's what we discussed yesterday. We're moving to third reading. You have before you a proposal for adopted amendments and articles, we have no new ones. That way we can move on to a decision on the law as a whole. Anyone want a word before the vote? Please, Comrade Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u136	We must find that the amendment has become inconsistent with the law. We have therefore decided to table a harmonisation amendment to Article 2. In doing so, we took into account that the substantive decision was made yesterday and that the will of the majority was expressed that the increase in the number of pensions from 10,000 to 30,000 would not be supported. We respect the wishes of the majority. We regret it because we think it was a very useful proposal. However, any delay in deciding on this law, which is a business option, would be even closer to the possible adoption of this law by the end of this year. That is why we have decided and tabled a harmonisation amendment that does not oppose yesterday's expressed will when the amendment proposed by the DeSUS Group is adopted. However, this harmonisation amendment is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u137	My friend Kavčič, I don't have him in front of me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u138	I have the harmonisation amendment here because it is necessary to first find that the law is incompatible with the internal law, and then, of course, we can only table the harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u139	This is where I hear other colleagues have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u140	No, the amendment is here because business must first determine the non-compliance of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u141	Okay. Okay. No, I understand other colleagues do.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u142	Not yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u143	That's why I was surprised I didn't have it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u144	Because there's no basis for filing yet. Thus, we propose that it be found that the internal law is incompatible. But I just wanted to comment on the harmonisation amendment, which does not bring about a substantive change, but only internally aligns the law with yesterday's adopted amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u145	If no one in the hall protests because we do not have it written so that we can even discuss it if it is found that the law of the house is inconsistent. Otherwise, we'll have to wait for it to multiply and we'll break this point and go to 36. Can you read this amendment? Please, buddy, peace has to be in the hall, or I'm gonna break this point. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u146	The harmonisation amendment reads: "On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure, we propose to the National Assembly a harmonisation amendment to Article 2, which reads as follows: 'The Article shall be deleted.' The amendment is necessary because of the discrepancy between paragraphs 1 and 2, resulting from the second reading amendment adopted. The adoption of this only made Article 2 irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u147	Can the competent government or the office now confirm that the unconformity of the law is like that of the amendments? Please, can the government authorities confirm this or the services? Otherwise, I'm gonna break this point. I'll stop her and we'll continue with 36. Until then, I ask that this amendment, Comrade Kavčič, be reproduced on the bench and that the competent national assembly be able to respond immediately whether or not it is a matter of non-compliance. 36. The point is ahead of us. I think that's the last thing we're gonna decide on, so I'd like to ask your attention. I would like to remind you that, in this morning's work, we have opened a debate on a proposal for a decision on the abolition of state property. I'm asking for peace. Under this item, the SLS Group and its representative, the leader, colleague Podobnik proposed an amendment to the decision to complement the amended and updated programme for the disposal of state assets for 2002 and 2003. You've got this proposal on the bench. Does Comrade Podobnik want to add something to this proposal? Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you, President for your word. Just for a little while. There were two variants. In two possible ways, the National Assembly could possibly decide not to confirm today's decision to give consent to the sale of the Vila Bled protocol facility. One way to do that would be to reach out to the amendment in writing, as prepared by the government. Another possibility is that the amendment changes its decision. I also consulted some of the professional services of the National Assembly, including the service of the home labourer, and finally decided to propose a decision, which - i.e. an amendment to the conclusion that at the end of the text the decision is deleted and the following text is added:'so that from the work relating to construction works and land the villa Bled is excluded'. This means that the National Assembly may have a month to discuss this in detail and decide whether to go and support this decision regarding the sale of the Bled Villa complex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u149	Okay, this was the amendment that was tabled in the first decision; that is, please note, this decision reads: "A complement to the 2002 and 2003 revised and updated programme for divestment of state assets." We will first vote on the amendment tabled by Comrade Podobnik on behalf of the Group of Members. Can we make a decision? Please. Peace in the hall. This proposal has been adopted. 54 in attendance, 41 in and 6 in. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] Thus, we can now decide on the decision in its entirety, with the amendment being supplemented, by a supplement - a complement to the amended and complementary programme for the disposal of state assets for 2002 and 3. We're voting. Comrade Jerovšek! 54 in attendance, 41 in and 6 in. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] The decision is adopted. We're moving to a different conclusion. May I have your attention, please? Amendments and additions to the sales programme and/or the replacement of state-owned property for 2002, of which users are judicial authorities, shall be adopted. We're voting. We vote on the second decision. 54 in attendance, 38 in and 9 in. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The decision is adopted. We move on to the third, final vote under this point on the decision, which reads: "A second addition to the amended and updated programme for the disposal of state assets for 2002 and 2003 shall be adopted." We're voting. We have completed our decision on this point, 55 present, 39 for and 9 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The decision is adopted. We are now going back to the last unfinished point, which is also the 23rd point of the proposal by my colleague Kavčič, if I am well aware, so also the competent service notes that there is a lack of coordination and that we must address this mismatch. This amendment is already in photocopying. The Service reported that the service had informed the leadership of the National Assembly that there was a need to eliminate marital disharmony. Please, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I want the job to come and explain to us what the disharmony is about, because we finally have three articles here. The first article was amended as it was yesterday. I don't even know what we're doing. This law makes no sense, and I think we could vote on the whole law with this amendment, as it was adopted, and it is the end of this story. I'd like someone to explain something to me from this job, not to explain something from the background - where they see disharmony, how they could possibly be harmonized. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u151	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u152	As far as content is concerned, Mr Kavčič has spoken before. But unfortunately it is that the service has indeed found a discrepancy, and since the law would remain only with the editorial correction of the basic law, which has been amended in one way or another, it is one way or another that the law is rejected, because it makes no sense that only an editorial amendment is published in the Official Journal and this is the law. The content is completely altered, or - the content to be regulated by this law has not been adopted. And it is possible, without getting on the table, this proposal, which Mr Kavčič spoke about, to accept. The next vote on the law I fully propose that we vote "against" and we reject the matter and we have completed the legislative path.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u153	My colleague, Dr. Bayuk, has requested that there be a competent service here, and I am now making this request known. Please leave the work that is now being devoted to him in the background and come to the hall. Please, Madam Deputy, you have the floor. The cymbol out loud.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, with the amendment adopted, the proposed law was supplemented by our assessment of the non-compliance between paragraphs 1 and 2 of the legislative proposal. In fact, both Article 1 and Article 2 proposes an amendment to the initial solution of 10,000 pension vouchers to the extent that they could be replaced by an additional pension policy. Therefore, this sum of pension vouchers in Article 1, which amends Article 28 of the current law, was also, of course, the same in Article 30, because they are interconnected already in the basic, applicable law, when the proposed amendment was proposed and the amendment was also supported by the amended proposal of the law and this amendment entered into Article 1, it is said that only in Article 1 has there been an amendment and the suspension of the proposed amendment from 10,000 pension vouchers to 30,000. In Article 2, which amends Article 30, the original proposed number of 30,000 remained, resulting in a substantive discrepancy between the two articles of the proposed law. In addition, if an amendment to Article 2 is proposed, or by the deletion of Article 2 of the proposed law, then we are left with only Article 1 of the law, taking into account the adopted amendment in the second reading, when a substantive amendment or amendment is withdrawn, we are left with only an editorial correction in Article 1, and this is a minimal editorial correction where only one word or even one letter changes and in fact the substantive meaning and the reasons for the proposed amendment of the law are devalued. This is the question - so such a change is possible all the time with the ordinary amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you, Madam Deputy. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u156	It seems strange, but because the procedure is such that we cannot vote on the law in the end until the conflict has been resolved, even though the law has been created without content. I regret that, of course, Mr Kebrič has tabled bad amendments because he should have tabled all the articles and this would have been resolved and this harmonisation amendment should not have to be accepted at that time. But now, if we are to come to a vote, we must have a harmonised law. That's all it is, nothing else. And to wait for those multiple harmonisation amendments, we can vote twice and the matter is over.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u157	I do not object if no one in the hall opposes this; if one is alone, we will wait for it to reproduce. Does anyone object to the fact that we do not have a split amendment before us? [[Nobody.]] Then we will vote first on the proposal of the harmonisation amendment by colleague Blaž Kavčič, colleague of Podobnik and Anderlič. The harmonisation amendment to Article 2 reads as follows: "Article is deleted." We're voting. 56 present, 51 for and none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. So now we can vote on the bill as a whole, in line with the warnings we have also received. Comrade Squirrel, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I found myself in a situation that my colleague Anderlich was talking about earlier, and I'm just going to vote like it makes sense - Pirova wins in the end. Last night, a great deal of social demagogies, many of you have really brought you in the direction of emotion. The result will be this: no shadow will be bad, the Capital Society will get the first pension fund, in which very many participants with a few thousand tolars will have very much work to do. And yesterday we made a bad decision, we made a bad decision, but most people in the National Assembly are always right, even if they make the wrong decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u159	I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u160	Explanation of voice. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Time is gold for us, too, Members. Yesterday's vote is a valid argument why we proposed this amendment and rejected the amendment. Thank you very much, and I thank the proponents that we have resolved the matter so quickly today.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u161	He's a friend of mine. He's the only one who has the word of a colleague of Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u162	If it was said earlier that there was a lot of social demagogies yesterday, I must correct and at least say that there was a lot of social justice in our eyes, from the point of view of the Slovenian National Party, yesterday. How do you take this, Mr Podobnik, but it is clear from the interest you have put through the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u163	Anyone else? Dr. Bayuk's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Very briefly. Mr. President! We have supported the amendment of Comrade Kebrich. Otherwise, we disagree with his arguments regarding the first pension fund and this. We voted for this to end. Since this is an unacceptable procedure, which was done by the CAD and what the government was doing, it was too late to come to the public with this proposal. For this reason and because of the development of our capital market, we are assessing that it is imperative that this law be rejected and I reject the assessments just made by Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-25-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u165	Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] We're voting! Attention to the vote! 51 present. 5 for and 42 for. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 42.]] I understand that the law is not passed. This was also the last vote in the framework of the October meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you all for your cooperation, and I wish you, as well as those who have accompanied the meeting, a pleasant weekend. Thank you very much.
