ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u1	Again, I must say that there are very many Members and Members missing. It is absent, so we should practically come to the hall to all those who have not apologized in order to become concluding. Can you please insert the cards into the voting devices, so we will have an approximate inspection of the presence in the hall. Once again, I'm going to ask you to put your cards in the voting machines to see if there's more of us than is recorded on the screen in the hall. Good afternoon, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am beginning to continue the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to everyone. I'll do it more honestly if you listen to me. Even though I'm in a bad voice. I would like to inform you which colleagues and colleagues are absent. These are: colleagues Delak, Petan, Pukšič, Zmernik, Vizjak, Kontič, Rupar, Juban, Marsič, Podobnik, Gaber, Trofenik, Malovrek, Brenčič, Peterle, colleague Simšič, colleagues; Kangler, Christmas from 12.30 p.m. on; colleagues Kopushar, Kavtičnik, Germič, Švagan, Pece, Levič, Štemberger, Sušnik, Merlo and Weber. Colleagues and colleagues, I have read a long list of absent Members and Members. Colleague of the Posson, I ask for peace in the hall. Colleague of the Posson, please. There will therefore be many colleagues and colleagues absent from today's session. If we want to make decisions, then we must be all those who are not absent in the hall in order to be concluding. That's why I'm asking you today for your kindness and attention. This conclusion, the presence, I will also find out. Please report by pressing the "quorum" key your presence in the hall. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. I think there's more of us in the hall. I think most of the groups are represented. I'll wait a few more minutes before I find out. I think there's over 50 of us in the hall. The majority of all parliamentary groups are represented. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to rediscover the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Hey, buddy, you want to go procedural? Please, buddy Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Please check my voting device because it's not burning the light.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u3	Just a minute. I'm taking a three-minute break so the technical services can check out the device at my colleague Puck's. I have to hang up in three minutes, even though we're done. I'm asking the technical services to check the voting device. You want to check it out, buddy Pucka? Is he okay? I'm going to have to rediscover the presence in the hall because Comrade Pucka at the time when he's okay? [[...]] We're going to rediscover the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're picking up a presence at the hall. 46 present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue today's meeting. I welcome the Minister and his associates. For today's continuation, the 5th item of the agenda has been discontinued, namely the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, and the 17th item, this is the proposal for a law on measures to remedy the consequences, prevent the spread and establishment of larger-scale terrestrial beaches. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. We've already started the point, and then it was interrupted by a procedural proposal, and today it will continue. I would like to invite a representative of the Government, if he wishes to give the floor to the National Assembly, to convey the Government's views on the proposed law. You have the floor, Minister Mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u4	Dear Members and honourable Members! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. By amending the Insurance Act, the Government proposes to amend the two articles of the Act, which was adopted two years ago, namely Article 118 of the Act, which deals with countervailing provisions, and the provisions which refer to the period within which the Slovenian exporting company has to align its business with the provisions of the Insurance Act. Yesterday was intended for a very comprehensive consideration of this subject, including on the home committee, and I believe that we have reached a sufficient consensus that today, relatively without major problems, we will be able to accept these proposals. A few words, though. The purpose of the establishment of balancing reserves is to compensate for the uneven adverse event caused by major accidents and similar events. Therefore, balancing reservations are only to be made where there are significant fluctuations in damage, i.e. in insurance types that do not have homogeneous, evenly occurring harmful events. In Article 118, the Insurance Act requires the creation of compensatory provisions [[Current law]] In all insurance types and such arrangements, it is significantly more stringent than the European Union requires, where compensatory provisions are prescribed only for credit insurance. For other insurance types, of course, each Member State of the European Union may prescribe them at its discretion; at the same time, it is stricter to look at what we have proposed, 12 insurance species, more stringent than the regulation of most European countries, where the creation of compensatory provisions is mainly limited to certain insurance types where greater fluctuations are at a harmful frequency. In the event of a capital inadequacy of insurance undertakings, the initial proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly provided for the immediate decommissioning of compensatory provisions in insurance types which were no longer prescribed in the law, which appeared to be controversial when discussed by the competent committee. Therefore, the Government has re-examined the proposal for a law and has decided to table an amendment to the original proposal of Article 1 of the law proposing that it be waived after the immediate decommissioning of those reservations, allowing for a gradual decommissioning within a five-year transitional period. In this way, it is taken into account, which is also important to me, including the opinion of the Slovenian Insurance Association Council, to define a five-year transitional period for the adjustment of the business of Slovenian insurance companies. Let me say that, as the solution is now proposed, together with all the amendments of the parent committee that have been virtually unanimously accepted, we believe that we are dealing in a modern way with the issue of compensatory provisions in a way that allows sufficient security for the insured and, of course, enables the normal operation of Slovenian insurance companies. Let me mention once again that we have checked the solutions both in Austria, Germany, Great Britain, France, Portugal, Denmark, Italy, Belgium and so on and we have a fully compatible system; a system that will also be competitive. In the end, that's all. The draft law also extends the deadline for aligning the operations of the Slovenian exporting company with the provisions of the Insurance Act, namely, to the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, which is in line with the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at the negotiating points. The extension of the deadline will allow for the establishment of a specialised insurance undertaking first, which will secure credit against marketable risks and will be established and operated under the insurance law. In the meantime, the Ministry of Economy will also draw up a new system law on the insurance and financing of international economic affairs. In short, we propose that you support the amendments, which are also supported by the parental committee and, of course, that we get to the law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, mag. Robbery. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The chairman of the committee, Comrade Pucko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. That proposal was addressed by the mother's working body at a meeting on 7 February this year. Since this is a very important matter, the debate at this meeting was also quite gruesome, especially since the secretariat for the legislation and the legal affairs of the National Assembly had already pointed out in its opinion that the new definitions of compensatory provisions were considered essential to the operation of insurance undertakings, and therefore an appropriate transitional period should be envisaged, which did not contain the original text of the Act. The Committee met again on a proposal from its colleague Barovic yesterday and addressed the Government's amendments to the original text, which improves and partially summarises or follows the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. In doing so, the Committee has adopted some amendments to the amendments of the government and has thus sought to improve the proposed text, while also unanimously supporting all amendments of the government which have been tabled to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. My friend Barovic quits. None of the members of this group wants a debate, at least I don't have a written one. My friend Kelemin? I don't have your letter, but you have, of course, a word. Please, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Then he wants another word from one of the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] Then the Members will have their say. Comrade Bayuk. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. Our Group of the Social Democratic Party, although in principle it is now likely that the majority of the amendments and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act itself will be supported. However, I would like to give some light to certain things that may not have been accessible to all Members at the level that we have experienced, particularly members of the Committee. In fact, at the outset of the examination of this important document, our Group found that it was a significant systemic change to the Insurance Act and that the coalition or government first presented this proposal as some simple proposal, such as some harmonisation with European comparable systems and so on. In short, in the debate itself at the Committee's meeting it turned out that the proposaler somehow did not want to tell the main reason why this change was in the first place. It was only after our long-standing insistence and asking many questions, as if we didn't know what it was, that it became clear that it was big money, that it was big money and that this system change was not as insignificant as it seemed. Interestingly, then, members of the coalition who did not know how to discuss the subject in a broad way simply rejected Article 1 in the vote, which is a key article in this proposal for amendments to the law. Why this has happened, of course, there are many more questions; perhaps one of these, very important ones, which we have previously pointed out, was simply not at this important point of the Minister's presence, which some have then told us, if there are government representatives here and so on. However, the following has shown that the authority and presence of the Minister for this item of the agenda is still necessary and necessary. There is, of course, another reason, perhaps because of the Minister's lack of involvement in this matter, that members of the coalition had some prior discussions with some external para-State power centres, from which they received instructions on how to act in this case. Therefore, this key article was rejected without some important debate. Of course, we immediately knew that this was not right, and we expected that this matter would become complicated, which is what happened next. By somehow rejecting this key article, members of the coalition have also, in my opinion, given serious mistrust to the Minister, because this proposal is extremely important for the Ministry of Finance and also for the government as a whole. Well, further on - so much so that it will be clearer that someone else may also find that this is the case - then only the minister somehow stepped into action and with his authority and his presence, as it proved later in the meeting of the committee, may also break the bone or force the spine or at least prove to the members of the coalition that these are urgent measures, although it has been shown that we have actually taken some compromise that does not guarantee those effects which were considered by the original proposal, but allows some to continue fishing in the mud for at least some time. In short, our Group notes that this is an important change - a systemic change - of the law and that it is probably this - or we firmly believe - that this change is somehow necessary, even because we are closer to alignment with European comparable systems. That is why our parliamentary group will support most of these amendments and the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Mr Bajuk will present the views of the New Slovenia Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will support this proposal and the amendments it tabled yesterday on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. However, I would also like to explain that we have also supported the original government proposal on this committee, which is members of the Slovenian Coalition. We understand and understand what compromises are, and we believe that this proposal, which we have today at this national assembly for decision, is only a positive step in the right direction. Otherwise, we would like to see that it would be far more radical than it is possible. Why? Finally, this proposal, including the government's initial proposal, does not require the level playing field required by Slovenian law when comparing the standards prevailing in other developed countries in the field of insurance. And this correction could go further and also end this requirement in other, additional industries, but we understand the compromise. In no way does this jeopardise the stability and functioning of this insurance in Slovenia. And we believe that it is absolutely necessary to do so already, or at all, that the tonnes should be legal, as in Article 118. Of course, you have to ask yourself why things like this happen. And the question, of course, is whether it's a mistake or not a mistake. Or maybe it's some kind of planned approach. And if a person looks at and thinks about the consequences of such a law as we have, of course, there will be a conclusion, and it does not have to be without knowing what kind of expert in this area, that by requiring and legislating greater reservations than are actually necessary and as they predominate in the developed world, which has a stable and strong insurance policy that has actually only allowed Slovenian insurance companies to avoid tax and that the Slovenian state did not have sufficient resources from this sector of economic activity, as a person would expect. And you know, it's German tears. This isn't about small numbers. These are very large numbers. The 40 billion tolars that have accumulated in these years after unnecessary, if they were actually part of the profits of this economic activity, would at least in some estimates represent an additional amount for the Slovenian country, at least around 10 billion tolars. And 10 billion tolars in our public finances is good news for all those who are still waiting for the country to find funds for one kindergarten or to be able to help in a different way in the field of transfers where they are really needed. Not in economic activities known around the world as stable and profitable. And they certainly include insurance. So either a mistake or a plan. If there is a mistake, this is a very serious warning to this national assembly that a longer process is needed to adopt such legislation, thorough analyses that would help all of us to come up with better solutions than they have ever been in the past. But if this is not a mistake - and I doubt that this was just a mistake - then we are faced with certain ways of preparing a scenario that allows for greater concentration of capital in Slovenia, which we are all willing to publicly acknowledge that we support. In the coming days and weeks we will face such and other mistakes or plans that actually create the possibility of things happening legally, but in a different way, in an open, public way, we will never reach the support of this national assembly. So, we will support this compromise in the hope that in the near future it will be possible to correct this correction, because obviously in the field of what is known today, in the profession and in the experience of the developed world, although this step is in the right direction, it is still not as it could be. There's a lot of branches in the insurance sector that could have been eliminated, so obviously that's the way it is. And I just hope the time comes for us to settle this in the future. For now, we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? I guess not. That way, I can give the floor to Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Comrade Jerovšek. Please be my guest. Mr Jerovšek signed up in writing and I limit the applications of all other transactions to 5 minutes, including the application of colleague Barovic. First of all, my colleague Jerovšek, my colleague Barovic, I have no other applications.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, when we discuss amending the Insurance Act, we are discussing where billions will land, where the pockets, whose pockets will land the billions that revolve around in this insurance lobby. And as always, in matters that are decided on by money, Members - especially within the ruling coalition - are divided. The scenes and cultures of lobbyists that put pressure on Members are clearly visible. And, of course, this is also happening when we adopt this law. The so-called compensatory provisions, which we have heard here from the Minister's mouth, that only an exception to European guidelines and European standards or that they are compulsory only for credit insurance, have been invented by some strong financial lobbies within financial insurance companies as a source of asset allocation to other sector insurance companies. The Slovenian government also had to kneel before these strong financial lobbyes or before the oligarchy in the form of an amendment we have on the table. Thus, we have only a compromise before us on the table, which in any case gives to those who have financial power and are not on the side of the Slovenian state and Slovenian taxpayers, but are strongly focused on their private financial interests, to those who have already fallen down. They are so powerful that the Slovenian state has not been able to resolve this issue in ten years. And in a way, they're so powerful that even when we're discussing so many billions of government money, even some media can't report it. Yesterday, more by chance, on the Finance Commission, I replaced a regular member, and I saw and observed the nervousness of some government Members, what would happen to them if they finally had to support the Minister's proposal. Neurotic behavior. It's a neurotic conduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u13	Watch your mouth!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u14	I'm sorry, that's what happened. I was there. This was an excellent school, which can be financial pressure, how poor Members are, in fact, in the case of financial interests, financial pressures, perhaps even promises. In fact, this influence of money, this smell of money, it affects so much that yesterday we also witnessed the scenes when the two presidents of the most powerful parties here - what was happening there - was literally a fight that was presented in Del today. At the same time, I was wondering yesterday when I was watching this fight, whether this party had a split into the first Vice-President or the second Vice-President of the party. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u15	Comrade Jerovšek! Comrade Jerovšek, the right to freedom of thought is not disputed. But I have repeatedly warned that it is also a responsibility to use it properly. I think you're going through the subject of discussion now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u16	Mr President, I thank you for your intervention, you are correct, but I think these are extremely important facts for Slovenian taxpayers. That's what I'm saying. This is very important! Because one would expect the government or the minister, who is also a senior official of a party, to be the highest, or I thought that the other party would stand behind such a proposal. Then a person notices that they look at this proposal with their teeth pressed; that after they have somehow been forced to raise their hands at the end of the session, the continuation of the meeting of the National Assembly is minimized because they sing the phones, "what do you do now?" And this is an important matter for the Slovenian public. And, Mr President, we had the opportunity to see the Italian Parliament, the Austrian - these debates - represent the public. And let us also present to the public these cracks or these lobbies, when it is with millimeter precision that they can separate themselves, how one Member thinks, whose influence it is, who is on the side of the insurance lobby, who is on the side of the state interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u17	Comrade Jerovšek, if you have facts and are the subject of this discussion, I will not take your words about them, but of all others, if there is no subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u18	I think it's actually high time that we try to get our share of this profit from insurance companies that have been in the last few years and have already accumulated, which has not been taxed to a significant extent, and has, on this basis, gone through the gains and differences in the pockets of those who have been dedicated. And yet these lobbyists, by cashing in huge profits in these years, to a large extent privatizing it, are not satisfied. In every way they want to take all the money, but it's not change, it's billions and billions of money, on which the country can at least recover a tiny bit in this invisible financial situation. Look, and this situation is actually very clear. The State is aware that it should act in the interest of its citizens, because even in 1990 and 1992, when we owned everything, there was nothing officially owned by the directors of certain companies, nor in insurance. Today they say it's the fruit of their work, and I don't know what it's all about. At the time, we shared certificates, not in insurance and not in banking. And if we decide today that this will be a public debt cover or something else in the country, it is perfectly legitimate. And I don't know why some people here think that this is the money that some individuals deserve that maybe 20 years ago were more barefoot and came to Slovenia. More without everything than the average Slovenian citizen, they are now owners and multibillionaires. However, they are not satisfied with this. When a person looks and looks at the perfidious way in which some Members try to act in favour of these lobbyings, the question arises to him why their interest is against what they have been chosen to do. They were chosen to defend and to represent the general interests of citizens. Why do they define themselves here for such narrow interests? There are some parallels in this man. In those days, there was a Red Cross affair in public. Yesterday we read how they replaced the director of the Red Cross years ago. That's when they were [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u19	The Red Cross is not the subject of this discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u20	I'm pulling the parallel, parallel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u21	Just as far as the discussion is concerned. Otherwise I won't let you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u22	And the same things the country could have known before. We cannot only praise the current minister here, because he has come up with a compromise proposal, which must also be supported by the opposition, because it has consistently represented the interests of Slovenian taxpayers, Slovenian citizens. However, the same government or the same people who are now in power have been in power for ten years and could have made order in this area long before the Order could have been made in the Red Cross, where representatives of the same authorities and the same political options. But that was not the interest. And now, in the end, the situation is that we have a compromise proposal on the table, which is actually for the interests of Slovenian taxpayers, of Slovenian citizens, a bad proposal, but it saves fines. In fact, all of us are aware that this is only a transitional situation, because these financial lobbies will do anything, even if we accept today that they will invent a new manoeuvre to land this money in their desired pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Comrade Barovic, I will limit your debate for five minutes. You'll be followed by Comrade Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Minister, Undersecretary of State. I gave up an unlimited debate on behalf of the parliamentary group for the same reason and purpose as I submitted yesterday's procedural proposal for the meeting of the home committee: to avoid drawing the case; to resolve it, because we know that the proposal for a change and supplementing the insurance law is an extraordinary need of the state. And I have the same goal today. However, in doing so, I cannot pass yesterday and yesterday's developments in relation to the amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. The procedural proposal for the treatment of the parent body was made after a discussion and agreement with the Minister, with the strongest party of the ruling coalition, as well as with the opposition party. And the one goal was: to have a meeting, to accept or not accept the amendment, and to finish. If there were 10 amendments, I'd understand. However, because we are also clearly upset to you, Mr Minister, and the chairman of the committee, who has therefore come, made it clear yesterday that such a way - I must mention it - is working in this National Assembly, a respected colleague and colleague, we cannot accept it. Yesterday afternoon it was clear - we can't get past this - that, at the request of an insurance company that I won't appoint, because I don't want to advertise with her, at her request and agreements with some of the - specific names I can tell if you want, but I won't - ruling coalitions, phone conversations and comparisons that they, the National Assembly, are telling us when we should and when we should not be sitting. The distinguished Minister was also clearly upset because our agreement was with him and with everyone else that we would finish the matter yesterday. I'm protesting against it. Why? This is because, in fact, we will support these two amendments and also the law in the Slovenian National Party alone and our colleagues. Because we think he's at least to some extent honest, because they're going to go back to where they came from. To taxpayers. Otherwise, we'll settle public debt through the funds. And here was the state, I must admit, fair. The country could be the owner of 11 thirteen. That's what I'm done with. Thank you very much. The Slovenian national party and I will support the amendments adopted on yesterday's committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. A colleague of Kelemin, a colleague of Dr. Bernik, a colleague of Sok, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that again. Respectable. He himself might ask a few questions if the Minister would like to answer certain questions. If he doesn't, of course it's his business. In short, I am, of course, firmly convinced that the government or the ministry, including the Joint Insurance Supervisory Agency, analysed this material or this subject thoroughly and also after a thorough analysis, as well as conclusions, somehow went into this proposal - I firmly believe that this was not just the case, but it was very systematically prepared, as is also seen from the proposal itself, which is actually good as such for the Slovenian State. Nevertheless, I would ask the Minister why these things did not happen before. Why did they not come to the National Assembly a few years earlier with such a proposal? That could have happened, I'm sure. I also ask how much the state budget has been damaged annually in the last eight years, if I say so. It's a huge asset, I'm sure, and the money itself could do a lot of good in this country for our people. And I'm also asking where these funds went in the past few years. Do you know where these huge funds have gone, the huge billions have gone in all these years, and where they have actually turned, and who has benefited from it? This could be a fundamental three questions that cast a shadow, a dark light on all these events in this insurance system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Comrade Bernick and the last of the men reported behind him, Comrade Sok. I'll start calling my colleagues in the decision room. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, Mr. Secretary and colleagues and colleagues! I'm a little surprised why this marriage is now and not long ago. In fact, the explanation states that it is a matter of swift procedure due to the extraordinary needs of the state. This matter has been known for several years, and the state or government has done nothing to settle this matter in the way that it would be fair and for the benefit of our citizens. If I understand correctly, this is how the state, the finance ministry and, above all, our taxpayers lost many billions of dollars. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u29	Please allow Dr. Bernick to speak fluently. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u30	If I may, on my own terms, these aren't cat tears, that's a lot of money. Look, we all remember how in the last year the finance ministry has been looking for new resources and, of course, the first thing that happened -- it was a taxpayer, like it wasn't enough already, and taxes were increasing. But there was a golden pit, and no one wanted to go down into that golden pit, and I don't know why. I fully understand the role of lobbyists, and I've seen them operating in and out of different countries. But lobbyists have a very good function if they do it properly. But in our country, lobbying is primarily on the side of the mighty, not the people. We don't have any real lobbyist organisation to stand up for civil society, for the audience, for the citizens. Of course, there are some, but they are not particularly effective or loud, because in this debate, as far as I know, it was not at all. And we have said this several times on other occasions. However, I would ask the Minister to explain, at home, why this delay, why the delay is, as I would say, half and perhaps I would like to speculate about whether it is perhaps a type of clientism word that has recently become popular with us, even though we may have known it under other names. And why the sudden emergency needs of the state? I think we need to get answers to these questions, and we need to tell our public that they will know what this is really about, because this is a very technical thing, and a lot of people will not understand it unless you tell them in your own language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much, colleague Bernick. The last one before the Minister, Mag, answers a number of questions. He's going to be one of the MPs, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and Members! I also agree with what the Member of Parliament has said, Comrade Barovic. So this Parliament is in a time-consuming crisis with regard to the adoption of laws. Last afternoon, we expected what lobbyists were going to do about the reservations and when we were talking about the insurance companies, we waited and, on the spot, we waited for one more night to make certain arrangements and the connections probably ran to this point so that we could decide today. I have to say, this is a strange way of working. It is strange that the government does not have, with as much support as it did when voting, such support in some of its proposals. They're mostly not there when the question of money arises. And I believe to the government that the state treasury is in an extremely difficult situation and that it is acutely lacking in money, as it has undertaken some projects that mean filling this cash register, increased the value tax, used every opportunity to raise excise duties where it has to, is additionally indebted. On the other hand, we have major problems with lack of finances - both in health care and the money for motorways is running low, social rights are falling. Last week you rejected here the democratically expected right to referenda for new congregations as just someone, with some answer, if there is no money; the truth is, everywhere there is a decline, but on the other hand, we are witnessing that some individuals in this country are filling their pockets, privatising, lobbying, recruiting and could still list. So this situation is, of course, unsustainable and if we are talking so much about national interests recently, then it would actually be the first and greatest national interest to put an end to such procedures in that country. More than one million citizens have submitted their certificates and nothing has been gained from these certificates until now. Those certificates remained worthless paper, and the country on the other hand has on the other hand for so long cancelled the inflows to the most profitable activities, one of which is certainly insurance. Well, the president of the Slovenian government still says that, the story of success. I say, "Yes, it's a success story, just for some." For the majority of citizens and citizens of this country certainly not. From day to day, these injustices in the social field are enormously greater, and I end up supporting what the government has done to the end of this matter and, of course, in the opposition New Slovenia we will be pleased to support it, and we will also support it in all further procedures, with which it will at least try to prevent certain influential lobbying in this country from doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you, Comrade Sok. Two reported, Comrade Rokavec, followed by a colleague of Dr. Bayuk's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I will support this bill, in particular in this sense - because this time the government has made at least one attempt after seven years, to a certain extent, to try to regulate tax legislation in the field of insurance, particularly in this sector of countervailing insurance. In fact, if we look only at the debate on the Committee on Finance, where the Director of the Agency for Secure Control said the following: "Reparative reservations are regulated in European legislation as they are mainly regulated in the Directive and also in local or national laws, in order to avoid playing tricks, tax laws are out of the ordinary. This is the basic objective of fixing the countervailing provisions to avoid the abuse of state tax legislation, and we do not have any legislation in the insurance sector in Slovenia, except for those applicable to other companies, I mean tax, we have an insurance law governing risk control. However, we do not have the relevant elements of tax legislation that would objectively, transparently control the display of individual elements in the balance sheet and profits and prevent the game of turning profits into artificial items.” In fact, we are facing a problem of balanced public finances. We collect and form various taxpayers' taxes on how to patch up the state treasury and, on the other hand, we find that the country where it could be able to collect money has not collected this for more than seven years. In fact, I ask again why the government did not come by regulating this area before. And secondly, the estimated annual revenue shortfall for the state budget was, of course, an act of law because it was not regulated and why this would require a five-year transitional period. In fact, it makes no sense that we are handling this matter in a five-year transitional period if we see that the problem that needs to be solved earlier is a problem. I would therefore like to ask for answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would also like to mention that in my previous presentation I am not saying that this law or this amendment to the law also has certain effects and consequences on the functioning of the Slovenian investment company. As far as this is concerned, we have already pointed out in our presentation of the positions on the parent working body that we currently do not have sufficient control over the functioning of this institution, because it is said that this is done by the Insurance Supervisory Agency, based on reports provided by SID to the Agency. This in itself is not control in terms of what is expected in the rule of law. This system is being extended indefinitely. I understood - and if I did not understand correctly, I would like to apologize - to the Minister when he said that the Ministry of Economy was preparing a system law that would also regulate these matters. I would like to ask the Minister when we will get this law. Since the operation of the Slovenian investment company, which takes on very large risks, has never been the subject of a serious debate in this National Assembly, in addition to accepting and allowing even greater guarantees in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. What is really going on there, what is the control, this is the great concern of our parliamentary group, and we would like to know whether the government already has a certain date when the National Assembly will be given this law, which Mr Minister has announced, and if that date is not, then I will design and propose a concrete conclusion that this will come within 90 days at the latest in the consideration of the General Assembly. We are talking about very large funds and billions, and I think it is imperative that we come to some clear understanding of what is going on here. Especially since we are also witnessing the fact that today the Nova Ljubljanska Bank takes over on behalf of all of us and in the funds owned by Slovenian citizens and citizens to a large extent, it takes over the risks in the former common country. We have already asked Mr President of the Government this question. We have not yet received the right answers: who is shaping this strategy, why Slovenia is taking over such things. And in the newspaper, we read in the media how this Slovenian SID supports the penetration of our economy into the area of the former common country. This is very worrying, especially because we do not have clear data and we gladly sign and allow guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Kremjar, then Mr Minister will answer our questions. Here you go, Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much. So, I'm going to support this proposal. I'd be happy to support him, in which case I have to say. And I am deeply convinced that it will also be supported by all fellow Members, especially because yesterday's financial committee has unanimously supported the proposed material, regardless of the obvious desire that some things would have been written down in the course of the debate. At this point, I am also pleased with, I will say, the government's stand-up attitude, which has sustained these pressures and has prepared a proposal that, despite the fact that the compromise proposal is the most acceptable at this point. That is why, of course, I will also support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Robbery. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'll try to answer some of the questions raised. In particular, there have been a number of issues related to the rapid procedure and I would like to say that two of the key reasons and the first is found in the Slovenian exporting company, which, if we did not settle this issue, would fall into legal vacuum and would not regulate the transition of the Slovenian exporting company to a system, as is normally the case in the European Union, in accordance with the agreement and pre-accession agreement with the European Union to membership in the European Union. Thus, we extend the deadline and allow the law that I spoke about and was also asked about by Dr Bayuk to be presented by the Ministry of Economics to the National Assembly and the State Assembly then adopts this law. I can say that, just last week at the Ministry of Finance, we received this bill from the Ministry of the Economy, and this law is now under interdepartmental treatment, so I hope that it will go relatively quickly through to the government and then to the State Assembly. In short, the proposal already exists. It was prepared by the Ministry of Economy. What may need to be emphasized is this dilemma regarding the time why such a law or such changes of law had not been passed before. Some of you have said that this has been going on for seven years or 1994 - as you probably know - this arrangement has been introduced in Slovenia, by which, for these types of insurance types, they can form compensatory provisions. And at the time, the fact that Slovenian insurance companies were undercapitalised was that the risk of doing business was relatively high and that is why the government probably wanted to strengthen Slovenian insurance companies when it proposed it. And in doing so, she followed the Austrian case. To the Austrian case and, in fact, to Austria at that time, it summarized such arrangements as did Austria at that time. And I have already been in these discussions several times, which we have also had, that at this time Austria also found that, of course, balancing reservations have accumulated very quickly and have been designed to a extent that is above what actually meets the actual needs, in view of the adverse events. And that's why the Austrian government decided to change. And in 2001, in 2001 they introduced an amendment, after which half of the compensatory provisions in Austria are taxed on a principle such as that of the previous proposal. Taxes, and this gradually, transitional over the next three years. And we, in fact, also have practical, not identical, but time-consumed, at a similar time frame, and we are now going with the changes and allow for this change. Of course, these assets will, on the one hand, have an impact on the better capital adequacy of insurance companies, as they will be released and in particular to increase the capital of insurance undertakings. I am sure that together, when we adopt the law on the ownership of insurance companies, we will, of course, find the best way to make sure that we are able to do so accordingly. And that, of course, this will not go where none of us would want to go, but it will go where I believe it is most reasonable, this is to settle public debt in some of the areas that we have, in particular in the area of denationalisation and also in the area of pension treasury, and of course there will probably be a much more lively discussion going on, and this will be a key discussion, in fact, when we talk about it. Thus, this discussion of where this will go, and how this will eventually be divided, awaits us. During the five-year transitional period, we followed the recommendation of the insurance community, which considered that ‘single’ harmonisation could be a major blow in terms of tax burden, in terms of business, and that this solution should be more gradually developed. And actually, if we look at it, the Austrians went gradually into this solution. And I think it is right that we have adopted such a compromise solution. There is no doubt, however, that we limit the volume of balancing reservations, but, as has already been said in the debate, the volume of balancing reservations will still be so great that it will ensure what we all want and want and we must ensure, that is, the safety of the insurers, the security of payments of harmful events. That's about what I had. Of course, I hope that you will all support this law and these solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please. Then Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Minister, for simply explaining some things. However, I would like to clarify one dilemma. When the government or the ministry finally decided that at least a fraction of that money should be brought into the state budget or into the state account. Because last night, we were able to make sure that the concept of murder was different. Because, former secretary of state, he is now unscrupulous in the service of insurance companies. And that's when she worked for the insurance lobby. That's what you know. It was a classic case when there was a fox's den in a peasant's yard. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary, when did you realize this was happening to you? Was it conscious that the Secretary of State had been in this farm yard in previous mandates - if I used the parable - and when did this matter change? Whether you were aware that you were falling as a finance minister at the end of your political career - only this sobered you - or whether at the beginning everything was different. And of course, there are now some Members of Parliament in a dilemma, because there were clearly some commitments to these lobbyists that this will be done. They had their own man in the Ministry, in the government. We must explain these matters to the Slovenian public. I also thank Mr Kremjar, who admitted that the country has now done bravely to keep the country's upright posture under pressure. I'm sure he knows a lot more about the pressure exerted on the state and the ministry. He said this very vividly about how intense the pressures are. I also thank him for raising his hand to say more about these pressures. Actually, that's a key question. I think the pressure is so strong that the key Members aren't here in the Chamber to consult with that work. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u43	Mr. Jerovšek! I ask you kindly to move from a personal level to the law before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u44	I don't personally mention any of them. This is a key matter. In fact, I ask myself, this time I commend the Minister for making the right establishment, otherwise it was late, and in previous mandates, this has not happened under other ministers. I would like to ask him that he will not have the property law prepared again by a lobby that will not be a state that will be insurance or the like because it is too much in this country. For all strategies in banks and insurance, it turns out that they are made by those on the other hand. And, Minister, as I said, I will support you here, but be aware that if you do not bring this money into the country - yes, because this is a compromise proposal, you will say - in Austria there is a three-year period, and with us, five years since 1994, it is an eight-year transitional period. We're 13 years old, that's a big difference. And if you make such a small share of this money, then your political career and your financial career as a state official are questionable. The people will come to their senses one day. These pictures are very clear, and I've seen these scenes here. I'm sorry. Unfortunately, it is so, or thank God, that at least someone noticed that at least some journalists had seen it because others obviously should not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u45	Mr Kremjar has a replica of the implementation of Mr Jerovska, then the debate, Mr Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much. So, colleague Jerovšek is obviously a very famous "pressurelogist" because, of course, he elicits all the pressures, both of them. Of course, I have no intention of spreading the debate in this direction right now, but I would like to explain. The thing is perfectly normal, throughout the world and in our country, that when a law is being drawn up, that the interests of those who are in one way or another affected by this law, which play as a result of this law, and these are legitimate interests and of course express them. And if someone reads newspapers, watches TV, listens to the radio, they can quietly exude what these pressures are, and of course, like I said, they are perfectly legitimate pressures. To carry this through these means, perhaps even by some other means, I don't know, even to us who decide in this House, but it's also completely understandable and normal; each one creates one's own image, acquires such and other information. Thus, it is not necessary to be particularly well informed that these pressures are and will always be when such things are discussed. That's what I was gonna say. Once again, the government is aware of this, because it is communicating with all these people who are playing this game, and yet it has prepared a proposal that we have all assessed, and I am evaluating it once again as a compromise, but probably the only real and possible right now. That's it. If I have explained anything further about the above-mentioned scientific knowledge of "pressure", then of course I am satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much to Mr. Kremjar for his qualifications. I don't know, or I've heard of this science for the first time, but because he talked about pressures, he probably knows them better, or the country knows them better, because she endured the pressures, as he said. Mr. Kremjar, you say, the thing is perfectly normal. I agree with that on my own. It's normal for lobbying, financial circles, and the like to lobby, pressure, convince. I too was three years ago in this same case unexpectedly from a completely different end of Slovenia came or in some way - I would say - some offer even in this direction. Look, it is not normal, Mr Kremjar, that the Minister has the biggest problems with his own Members. That he's the most afraid of making a decision. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u49	Mr. Jerovšek! That's what you've been saying in the fourth replica. It's all been heard. I very much ask that in the replica where Mr Kremjar explained to you the misunderstanding of his statement, but limit yourself to what we would like to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u50	Good. One more time. That's not normal. Normally, it is normal for its own MPs to say so - because they supported it yesterday. But I've seen clenched teeth, nervous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. I don't have my teeth clenched. It's a good thing we say a little differently sometimes. I thank my colleague Kremjar for that word. I think it's very interesting. However, I would like to ask the Minister again, rather than a discussion of what is "pressure" if he would then agree with this proposal for a decision that is currently being drawn up and typed for him to come into the procedure. I'm going back to the Slovenian investment company. As you know, Article 335 of this Act stated that the SIDS must systematically regulate their position within two years. Indeed, we do not yet have such systematic training, and I understand that this will come in this law, which is already in inter-departmental coordination. And I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, that was in the previous composition, the previous government has promised to settle this in two years, and so far it has not been settled, we have been somewhat like a unfaithful Tomaž, and we would like to set a specific date. Since you have just told us that this is already in inter-departmental coordination, I would then ask you if 90 days is right for final interdepartmental coordination, because in such a case I would suggest this as a joint conclusion of today's meeting, that we get this once on the table and re-debate and review what is with the supervision of this institution and put it on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. And Mr. Bernick, and then Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm sorry to bother you again, but I'd like to ask you one question. As the Minister was clearly informed on the Committee yesterday, this law was very unilateral, loose and so on, so many of these amendments were needed. This is said to have involved either the government or the finance ministry blindly or lobbyists added their views. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the Ministry has, when dealing with the preparation of such laws and touching the state or taxpayers. Does the Ministry have any way of attracting civil society to treatment? I know that there have been various lobbyists and so on in the various financial laws. Would it not suggest that a truly independent civil society would also be involved here, which could then make proposals so that lobbying would be balanced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk wants more.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Just one correction, I'm sorry. They reminded me that I said Slovenian Investment Company, not Slovenian Export Company. In fact, you know, as a Ljubljanan, I can't get over being the owner of the Slovenian Investment Bank by a decision of the city authority, and that bothers me so much that I still have this, I keep in mind. Excuse me. However, I was talking about the Slovenian Export Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u58	Dear Members, perhaps first of all on a topic related to this timing of balancing reservations and the time from the beginning of systemic changes that have defined an old way and a new one. Let me say again, and point out that in 1994 the situation of insurance companies was not good and that systemic changes were needed to increase and improve the capitalisation of Slovenian insurance companies and allow greater security for insurers. And in those days, we started off with a very bad position. And that solution, which has been, has allowed us to have today some insurance companies that have relatively high balancing reserves. In short, at all times, we cannot really say that this has been a bad solution, but in fact, in the last two years, it has been observed that these compensatory reservations have increased tremendously, showing, of course, that there have been no such events in some areas, and the possibility that these compensatory reservations may also be reduced accordingly. And on this basis, at the end of last year, in the autumn of 2001, at the same time as this change took place in Austria, we made a change, with a proposal for amendments in the ministry as well, and we started coordination, of course. Now, of course, we are at the point where this has been coordinated. Of course, we coordinated with the insurance association, coordinated inter-resort and invited some of the experts we have in Slovenia from this area, who are teaching insurance, and are not involved in these direct interests. For example, such an expert is Dr. Pavlich and similar to the international comparison that I was talking about, and with which we have specifically discussed once again, even before we have given an amendment to the government, whether it is now the right solution that would still fit. That is how I think we are using the right path, so that we can discuss things both with those who have interests, and we must be aware of this, as with those who are professional, and then, of course, within the departments and eventually in the national assembly. Perhaps, however, I would comment on this part, which concerns Members and the attitude. So much has been said, and I must say very clearly: the Liberal Democracy Club has met and practically unitedly supported all these solutions that the government has proposed. And here the Members unitedly supported me at the official meeting of the Group of Members, and there is no doubt, and I believe that the Members are behind me. As for three months or what Dr. Bajuk said, this law is being prepared by the Ministry of the Economy, but given that it is in interdepartmental coordination, I believe it is almost impossible that this would not be enough for 90 days. I think that's an acceptable proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u60	I don't want to prolong this debate. I am grateful to the Minister that he has tried to explain why, perhaps "why," we have so legislated - now I am returning to the issue of balancing reservations - in English it would be said "good try", a good attempt, otherwise it is not sufficient, at least from my point of view. I think that if we wanted to do something like this, we could do it in a different, very professional way, but without giving up on behalf of the country the means that such an economic activity as insurance must and everywhere also contribute to the common treasury. So, excuse me, Minister, I disagree with your explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u62	That's all I want to ask you. Should I understand the Minister's silence on my question about civil society that this is not a function, that the ministry does not think about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u64	I tried to answer, maybe I was too indirect. In particular, I have pointed out that we usually invite experts in the field covered by all these texts. They are usually quite specialised experts because in the area of insurance they are not very large in Slovenia, and we have gathered people who in Slovenia teach this area to colleges who are not directly involved in any knowledge or direct authority or implementation within insurance companies. We did this, and we do this on a regular basis in other topics, for example in the law on the ownership of insurance companies yesterday, I quoted one of the experts we asked about methods, for example, the identification of shares and so on. We always use it, and we'll do it later.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Believe me, it's a very well-meaning comment to your words now. When the government is looking for experts in these and other areas of economic life and when it is fighting and preparing economic legislation, I think it is also essential that you get experts who care for the common good, not just what sometimes happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I don't think they're listed for word in this general work, so when we first consider the bill, so I'm closing the general discussion. We are moving on to a second reading, namely to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 28.2.2002, and the amendment to the amendment of the government to Article 1 is also being reproduced, which is proposed by the SLS+SKD Group of the Slovenian People's Party. If you'll excuse me, I'll try to read it and then we'll wait in the debate. In fact, the amendment to the government's amendment to Article 1, we have three amendments to the government's amendment to Article 1. Two of them are in the review. The proposer shall be the Finance Board. In the first paragraph, the delegation proposes to add a new first indent, which reads: "On-board vehicle insurance [[Article 2, second paragraph, third paragraph of this Law]] . Explanation:For the great damage caused by the tide in recent years, we believe that the formation of balancing reservations is necessary. For this reason, this insurance type should also be classified as one of those in which balancing reservations are made.’ I'm asking if we can wait for you to get this amendment to the table. I can see the sneezing. I am adjourning the meeting until the amendment to the amendment just tabled by the parliamentary group. I think it'll be five minutes, so please continue the session at 11:43 p.m., where you can get to know about the amendment to the amendment when you get it on the bench. 11.43. That's 10 minutes. The session was suspended in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u68	Your Honor! Since before we go to the debate on the amendments to the amendment of the government and the parliamentary group to Article 1, we will identify the presence and then vote on the amendments, please, if you will join us. Your Honor! We will determine the presence in the hall, so please press the “quorum” button. We're picking up the presence! The first determination of attendance was not successful. I think there's enough of us in the hall, so I'm really asking for your attention. Next time we figure out the presence! I also note from my second statement of attendance that we are not enough to make a valid decision and therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes. Third time we'll be there at 11.58.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u69	Since some parliamentary groups obviously want to consult on the amendment we have received, and the third determination of presence will certainly show inconclusiveness, there will be another interruption. Of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, I must determine the presence, and then, because we are now inconclusive, I will order a 15-minute longer rest. We're detecting a presence. There are 23 of us present, which means we cannot make a valid decision. At 12:30, we'll continue our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u70	Dearly beloved, it is 12:30, when we agreed to continue the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. Since we will determine the presence, I politely invite colleagues and colleagues who are close to joining us. We're picking up the presence! We were unable to determine the presence of such a presence when we first saw it so that we could make a valid decision. But two colleagues just joined us. That's why I'm asking for your attention. Next time we figure out the presence! I am sorry about the procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek, we cannot even decide. There is sufficient certainty in the Chamber when we count, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure we have to suspend the meeting for 10 minutes. You can't, Mr Jerovšek, we can't decide about him. After 10 minutes as per the Rules of Procedure, at 12.42 we continue to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u71	I'm asking you to take your seats. For the third time, we find attendance in the hall. Let's find out who's here! There are 54 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to the government's amendment to Article 1. The two are under review and the third is, as has already been explained, otherwise rectified, the insurance of land motor vehicles is lodged by the parliamentary group. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. One of the amendments to the government's amendments has also been tabled by our parliamentary group. During this time, we met again in the Group of Members and discussed this issue again. We have found that the so-called highway helmet has some special status regarding balancing reservations, including in some comparable countries. But yesterday, after quite a lot of hard coordination, the government reached a so-called agreement supported by its mother's working body and to avoid any further conflicts and complications, and our parliamentary group is withdrawing this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. This means that we are discussing an amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 1, whose proposal - these are the two amendments to the amendment - is a committee and, of course, an amendment to Article 1 of which the Government is proposing. I'm opening a debate. No one wants to discuss it. I conclude and move on to a decision, first of all on the amendment to the amendment under order number one in the amendment review. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment under 1 has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are now deciding on the Government's amendment to Article 1. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 2 on page 4 of the amendment review. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Now I'm asking for your attention. In the review, you have on page 4 of the amendment to the Government's amendment to the new Article 2.a below the amendment to the new Article 2.a. It is correct, including the amendment to the amendment of the Government of which the Committee is proposing, the amendment of the Committee for a new Article 2a, followed by the amendment to the new Article 2a, of which the Government is proposing; both of them are excluded by content. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u74	I allow the possibility that you read it wrong, Madam Vice-President, because it says, "Amendment for a new Article 2a and amendment for a new Article 2aa", so that they are non-exclusive amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, that's next. Here is the amendment to the new 2.aa Article, which could also apply for Article 2.b. We have before us, at least in the review - there may have been an error in the preparation of the review - we have two amendments before us for a new 2.a article, which are very slightly excluded in the content, one is a committee's proposal, another government's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I'm guessing we both have the same review of the amendments. On page 4, the amendment to the Government's amendment is then an amendment to the new Article 2a proposed by the Government. So I hope we've cleared up the plot now. Thus, you must first put an amendment to the government's amendment after the rules of procedure and then a completely amended amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I think Mrs Bitenchev can help us to clarify this problem. Here you go, Mrs. Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u78	Actually, it's just an explanation of the nomotechnological nature. It was subsequently found that the amendment to the government's amendment was changing the complete text and that it was in fact an amendment that came first to the vote because it deviated more from the basic solution. I think what the leaders of the assembly wanted to say was that it was only about, say, the legal and technical definition of the category of amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u80	We support, of course, the adoption of the amendment of the home committee because we agreed on this yesterday. Then the second one is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Committee for a new Article 2.a. We're voting. If adopted, the amendment of the government on page 5 of the review is irrelevant. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment for the new 2.a member of the Committee has been adopted and has become the government's amendment irrelevant. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new 2.a.a. Article of which the Committee is the proposer. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the new Article 2a.a has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 3. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand the address has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 1, 2.a and 2.a. were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so, and I ask first whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Since no, I also ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments may undermine the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. It's not. Thank you very much. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. Regarding this law, Dr. Andrej Bajuk tabled a proposal, an additional proposal for a decision that reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a system law within 90 days, which will also regulate the system of control over the work of the Slovenian Export Company." Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? Because no, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. The first vote on the proposal was not successful, so I would like to ask your attention very much. There's enough of us in the hall. We will vote on the proposal for a decision next time. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 29 to 13. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government, the Minister and the Secretary of State very much for their cooperation, and also thank the representatives of the secretariat very much. And we're moving on to 17. Agenda item - Defence of the Proposal for a Law on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of the Prevention of Enlargement and the Establishment of Larger Land Plazas, a rapid procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the draft law will be presented to us by mag. Mr Radovan Tauzes, State Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Space. Mr. Tauzes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The law is, in a sense, a logical continuation of the law adopted in 2000 in connection with the natural disaster in Logo under Mangart. In that law, the Council of Experts was appointed and, of course, provisions were put in place to address the problem of, or finance, the resolution and rehabilitation of, larger-scale beaches. This law summarises the five major events that took place in 2000 and 2001 and regulates the financing in a specific way, namely in order for this year, this year, in 2002, the financing to be linked to the budget reserve and in the coming years, in the regular resources of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of the Environment to complete the full recovery over a four-year period. Another matter that is very important is that this law actually introduces the concept of state infrastructure for all the measures that are necessary to realize them for the rehabilitation of beaches. In short, with the location plan, with the national location plan, we are trying to arrange the matter in such a way that these areas, which are called the influential areas of the beaches, are, in some sense, bound for a longer period of limited use on this part, so that future events in the same area will not be returned to the State Assembly for injuries caused by reckless use or interference in the area of these influential areas. The other provisions of this law are summarised in the Law on Recovery and Earthquake Recovery in Posoča, so that you are already familiar to Members or to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At its 22nd meeting, on 22 February and 28 February, the State Council Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment considered a proposal for a law on measures to address the consequences and prevent the spread of land beaches from increasing. In the general debate, which was the first day of our meeting, it was found that the proposaler followed the Committee's position and the proposed law now relates only to the plazas of a larger scale that have been triggered up to this point. However, consideration was expressed because intervention laws provide for procedures concerning the conditions for the creation of funds, the preparation of spatial acts and similar matters. A comment was made that there has been a significant delay since the completion of the measures under the law adopted at the end of 2000 and the submission of this law, although the work on the beach of the Congestion and other large-scale beaches has not been completed and that security has not yet been ensured. The opinion was also expressed that a four-year period for the rehabilitation of beaches is envisaged for too long, in particular for reptiles which are slightly smaller. It was also noted that the proposed law is not transparent because it refers to other laws, such as the Law on Earthquake Recovery and Promotion of Development in Posoča. The problem arises at the date of the application for aid, on which the beneficiaries can receive funds as State aid. The draft law is intended to define more precisely the operators of individual tasks, in particular economic public service operators. It was proposed that the word "do" should be deleted as regards the 2002 budget reserves provided for the implementation of the measures this year. The representative of the proposer answered many of the questions raised and after the final discussion the Committee adopted a decision to support the consideration and adoption of the proposal for a law on measures to remedy the consequences of the rapid procedure. At second reading yesterday, 28.2., the Committee held a full debate on the individual articles and the proposal. He identified himself to the amendments tabled, the drafter of the law, the member of Jožet Tank and the group of Members with the first signed Ivan Mamić and, on the basis of the debate, accepted his amendments. However, the definition of the committee to the amendments tabled is as follows. The Infrastructure and Environment Committee shall support all amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the exception of the amendment to Article 36, the amendments of Ambassador Jožet Tank to Articles 15, 29 and 33. The Infrastructure Committee does not support the amendment of Ambassador Jožet Tank to Article 1, order number 3, 4, 6, 12 and Article 35. The amendment of the Group of Members with the first signed Ivan Mamić to Article 5, although the Committee has taken one indent out of its amendment as its own and you will then see that this is an amendment to the Committee. By adopting the amendment of the Committee to Article 1 and by defining the Committee to the other amendments, they have become irrelevant to the Committee. Amendments by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 36, amendments by Ambassador Jožet Tank to Article 1 under order numbers 1, 2 and 5 and to Article 2 under order number 1.2 and to Article 3 under order number 1 and to Article 13 and Article 14. The Infrastructure and Environment Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt the following amendments. On the 1st article that I do not read, you have them in the review, to the 3rd Article, of the amendment to the new 3rd Article, to the 5th Article, here I have said, here we have taken the indent from the amendment of Mr Mamić and his co-signatory of the amendment, then to Article 19, Article 22, Article 29 and Article 36. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt a proposal for a law on measures to address the consequences of the proliferation and establishment of larger-scale terrestrial beaches, a rapid procedure, together with amendments to the Committee and amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. The opinion of the Socialist Party Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. I say hello to everyone. We have before us a law on measures to remedy the consequences of preventing the spread and establishment of larger terrestrial beaches by means of a rapid procedure. The adoption of the law is necessary as it is necessary to prepare a legal basis and provide financial resources for the continuation of works in areas where larger reptiles have occurred in 2001 and 2000 that have endangered safe living and property, both private and part of state property. Although the deadlines for the implementation of measures under the intervention law providing for the regulation of the largest beach of the Congestion have expired as early as 30.6.2001, we are surprised that the government has not prepared a substitute law before and has been able to afford an eight-month delay. This surprises us even more because it was clear at the time of the adoption of the law that the works would not be finished, that security would not be ensured and that replacement facilities would not be realized, that is to say neither the house nor the other building nor communication. Thus, the remodeling of this beach and other beaches did not take place much. If the government would like to properly implement this programme and conclude it, it should be before the expiry of the previous law, that is, before 30.6., to introduce this or similar law to preserve the continuity of works, measures and assistance and thereby give a clear sign to the victims that we do not care what happens to them and when they come to their aid. Since these are usually areas with more difficult conditions and limited options, these activities should also be of particular priority. But it looks like we're waiting for people to get tired and give up and we're going to waste the necessary measures. As it is said, the marriage is about a year late. If I had been invested in time, it would not have taken such a fast procedure that Members who are not in the coalition had no special opportunity to make better and more appropriate proposals to make the law even more effective. It is not appropriate and it is not serious that we get Members a substantially converted law on a committee table and that we must decide at the moment and also make decisions. I am convinced that in this way, and even in such a common way, we cannot make many good decisions. And despite the fact that we are in opposition, we want to work constructively together and work together with our proposals to shape the image of today. With additions from Article 3a to Article 3j, the law has become transparent and meaningful and we support these additions in the parliamentary group, although we do not agree that the law separates owners with permanent and temporary residence. We believe that both deserve equal treatment and equal assistance because both pay exactly the same taxes. But I'd like to warn you about two more things. Firstly, on the extraordinary stretch of measures, since almost all reptiles, including for the smaller four-year regulation, are envisaged. I believe that most of the beaches, except perhaps the two biggest and also the most difficult, could be arranged in a much shorter time, and I think it would make sense to re-check if it did not approach otherwise. I also believe that it would be more reasonable to support the amendment to Article 1, which stipulates that the lower limit for action under this Act should be set at 50 million dollars, rather than leaving all the right to decide where it will be and what will be done to the State Commission referred to in Article 3 of the previous law. I do not think that the solution adopted on the Committee is the most appropriate solution. We will support the law in the parliamentary group because, despite all the inconsistencies, we want to help them adopt themselves in time and prepare the conditions for this year's construction season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia will be presented by Mr Bogomir Vnučec, then the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Alojz Sok. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the youth party, we are committed to regulating in the system law the scope of the State's action in dealing with the consequences, preventing the spread and setting up of Earth's beaches as a whole. In the bill we are adopting today, however, in the framework of systemic solutions at the end of the law, intervention provisions are placed in the transitional provisions, providing the means to remedy the consequences of the four major beaches in Slovenia. The adoption of such system laws, in our view, is not satisfactory. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree that the resources for the rehabilitation and management of beaches in Bovec, Ajdovščina, Solčava and Šempeter and the Garden should be provided, but in our opinion the government should have provided these funds in the budget, since it had plenty of time and opportunities for this. A total of around 9 billion tolars are thus prescribed under the system law. Based on experience in fulfilling the legal conditions laid down in other laws that provided for the provision of funds such as, say, a paediatric clinic, then a drought, a storm, a torrent, we do not know now whether the government will carry out the legal provisions consistently or only in half in the coming years. Nevertheless, we will support the law in the Party of Youth of Slovenia, mainly because of the fact that the funds for the rehabilitation of the above-mentioned beaches are urgently needed, as they endanger the lives of the people in these areas and the continuation of the rehabilitation is absolutely necessary. We will also support all the amendments adopted by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! It's almost pointless to repeat, we'll support this, this, and this is wrong. What is most wrong about all of this is, of course, the way such laws are enacted. Last night, we received a warm photocopy of the proposed amendments on the Infrastructure Committee on the table just before the meeting or during the meeting, which changed almost half of the law published in the Rapporteur and then decided to do so as Members. But I must tell you, Mr President, that such a way of working is impossible, unworthy, at least unworthy, that I do not use the word that it is undemocratic, and especially in the opposition, where we do not have the opportunity to discuss these proposals sooner than the Members of the position, you are putting us in some desperate position. So, what can we do? It's just that you don't vote because you don't know the matter, or you say that it's not good and that's not good, but we're going to support it. Well, I think that kind of work is extremely wrong. But I understood last night this debate that we are adopting this law, although I don't know if this guarantee is true, but that this law is adopted to release some resources for, I would say, the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, which are large in this country, and even if we are talking about reptiles, it is not just the beaches that are listed in this explanation, it is called Salty Blade, then Submark, Congest, and I don't know which one, because they are really large. But we also have many small reptiles that threaten one, two houses or more and of course are not covered. The case itself is well - known, and each one of us could state it, which is acute. Almost three years ago, the beach demolished the apartment house, and to this day, the state has not helped this affected family in anything. It is said that by themselves and with the help of relatives and acquaintances of friends they had to meet through Karitas, the Red Cross, and similar institutions. It is good to settle this matter in such a way and to approach some intervention measures as soon as possible, but according to our assessment it is a typical firefighter measure, because we should, however, arrange this area throughout Slovenia in one appropriate way to ensure that our citizens and citizens, if something like this happens to them, know what they can count on at that time. However, it is not that they receive no State aid for three years. So, this area and that is why we have also proposed, Mr Mamić proposed an additional decision to this law, which will be adopted at the end of the third reading, to commit the government to come to this national assembly as soon as possible with a system solution that will be able to identify and see all others who are at risk of having their assets threatened by smaller beaches than those mentioned here. So, what do you want me to say in the end? Like the rest of us, it's about getting rid of these problems. I'm not gonna say we're gonna support this, but then at least we won't argue with what you're suggesting. Once again, I would like to point out that such a way of working as is offered in this National Assembly is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I have not received written submissions from Members and Members to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Since no, I am concluding the general debate and moving on to a second reading, this is a debate and a decision on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on amendments and articles, it shall discuss and vote together with the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Members and Members are kindly invited to the Chamber, there are 25 pages of amendments to the bill, or there is one amendment of 10 pages, but if we want to finish the consideration of this bill by 2 p.m. and finish the work, I would like to ask for your attention in these 45 minutes. I shall put the motion to the vote. We're voting. There are 40 of us in attendance. Since, of course, I must immediately find out the presence of the other person, as set out in the Rules of Procedure, please, Members and Members, if they can join us at the time of the 10 minute interruption, it means that we will obviously work if we want to finish this law, which I think is a good idea to end it and thus properly conclude this meeting of the National Assembly, after working needlessly in 14 hours. I'm asking you to join us. Next time, we'll find out where we are. We're picking up the presence! Of course, there are more of us in attendance, but that's how you want us to be. We'll continue at 1:00 and 28. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u92	I ask you very much to join us, because we will vote for the third time on the proposal for a decision to discuss and vote together after the debate and vote on the articles and amendments on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. Since it is the desire of all of us to finish our work today and also to adopt the proposal for this law, which is put into action quickly, it is necessary to cooperate. This is the third time we have voted on the proposal for a procedural decision. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 1.3.2002 which you received today on the bench. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the seven amendments to this Article. Mr Joža Tanko and the proposed 7th Amendment to the Infrastructure and Environment Committee are the first to propose the Government, the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We move on to decision-making, first of all to amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and, as stated in the footnote, the amendments made by Mr Jožet Tank under order numbers 2, 3, 6 and Article 2 under order number 2 and Article 14 under order number 2 are therefore irrelevant. We are moving on to an amendment decision under order number 4. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 20 votes to 22. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted and therefore the amendment to Article 2 has also become irrelevant under order number 3. We decide on the amendment under order number 5. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. The vote was 12 to 33. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We also decide on the amendment of the committee under order number 7. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The first vote on the article has failed in its entirety, so I would like to ask your attention very much. We were successful at the same number before. Secondly, we vote on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2 and on the three amendments to this Article. The amendments under order number 2 and 3, as predicted, are irrelevant. We only decide on the amendment under 1, of which the government is the proposer. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to the chapters of the law. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 3 and the four amendments. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment of the government, whose proposer is the committee. Under 2 is the government's amendment. Under 3 is the amendment of drafter Jožet Tank; if the amendment under order 2 is adopted, the amendments under 3 and 4 of which Mr Tanko is proposing are irrelevant. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. First, on the amendment to the Committee's amendment under 1. We're voting. Again, we were not successful in the first vote. So I'm asking for your attention again. Second time we vote on the amendment to the amendment. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. That's why the amendments under 3 and 4 are irrelevant. But we have completely changed the article. Dr. Bajuk, 52 of us are in the hall. Mr. Kelemina, please recalculate. Before we go to the consideration and decision on the amendments for the new 3.a, 3.b, 3.c, 3.d, 3.e, 3.f, 3.g, 3.h, 3.i and 3.j paragraphs, allow me to welcome Mr Andrej Ruprecht, Deputy Director-General of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Economy of the Republic of Austria and the Chief Negotiator for Agriculture in the Government of the Republic of Austria. Good-bye! [[Let's hear it.]] We are therefore moving on to the debate on the amendments contained in the review from sheet 7 to 15. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We move on to decision-making, first of all the amendment to the amendment under order number one. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment of the government and thus the new articles have been adopted. We are on page 15 of the amendments, moving on to the debate and decision on Article 4 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5 and the three amendments to this Article. Under number 1, the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed Ivan Mamić, under the two amendments to the amendment of the Government of which the Committee is the proposer, and under the number 3 amendment of the Government, with a note, to the extent that the amendment of the group of Members under number 1 is adopted, shall become an amendment under numbers 2 and 3 irrelevant. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 29. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment to the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the government's amendment under 3. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The first vote on the article was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall. There's only a few amendments ahead of us, so I'm really asking for your attention. It is correct to conclude with the consideration and decision-making of this law in its entirety. Once again, we decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 6 and on the two amendments to this Article. The amendment under 1 is proposed by Jože Tanko and under 2 by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Since no, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment under 1. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 15 to 29. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the first amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 10 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 11 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 12 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of Ambassador Jožet Tanka, under 2 amendments of the government with a note, if the amendment under 1 is adopted, is irrelevant under 2. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. The vote was 16 to 30. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. The amendment of the motion to Article 13 made the amendment irrelevant as a result of the earlier amendments. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 14 and on the first amendment to this Article, as the amendment under 2 as a result of previous decisions of the National Assembly has become irrelevant. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate and decide on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 15 and the two amendments to this Article; under number 1 is the amendment of Mr Tank, supported by his mother's working body, and under 2 is the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. The vote on amendment number 2 was unsuccessful. May I have your attention, please? Second, we decide on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 16 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 18 and the amendment of the government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at Article 19 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 21 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at Article 22 and the amendment of the committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 23 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 26 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 27 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the time of Article 29 and the three amendments; the number 1 is the amendment of the government, under the number 2 amendment of Jožet Tanka, supported by the mother's working body, and under the 3rd amendment of the committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm concluding the debate. We are moving on to an amendment decision under number one. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 43 votes against one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under number three. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. Please, only the side of the amendments is still ahead of us. Second time we vote on amendment number 3. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 31 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. I hope I have previously understood your agreement that we should finish our work on this law. I think it'll take another five minutes, and we can finish our work. This is a law that favours a large number of citizens and citizens, so I do not think that consensus on this decision is questionable. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 33 and the amendment of Jožet Tank to this article, which is supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 34 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at Article 35 and Jožet Tank's amendment to this article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 32. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 40 votes against one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 36 and the two amendments; under number 1 the amendment of the Committee, under number 2 of the Government, with a note, if the amendment under number 1 is adopted, the amendment under number 2 is irrelevant. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I find that the amendment has been adopted; so the amendment under number 2 has become irrelevant. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. Please, only three more votes are in front of us. It would really be right to conclude with all the points of this meeting. Secondly, we vote on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Because no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Government, which the Committee supports, to the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and the address has been changed. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that a lot of amendments have been adopted in the second reading of the bill. If qualified applicants want to table an amendment to this, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Since no, before that, I am asking the representatives of the Secretariat whether there has been a breach of mutual compliance due to the amendments adopted. It's not. Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. Please don't run away from me. We have to close this session. With regard to this law, Mr Ivan Mamić also tabled a proposal, an additional proposal for a decision. This means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should draw up a system law within 6 months to establish measures to regulate all beaches of greater scope in the Republic of Slovenia. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? It is correct, I am informed, that the law on the conditions and manner in which State aid is used to remedy the consequences of natural disasters is the system law which already regulates what you are proposing. And he's in second reading and the National Assembly will deal with him. So that, in fact, the decision on this proposal is an additional decision, given that the government has already drawn up the system law and we have it at second reading, irrelevant. Yes, we can, of course, consider this your recommendation to us to put it on the agenda as soon as possible and also to the government to prepare it as soon as possible. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. I want to correct you. It's not immaterial because he says it's six months late at the latest. So it's the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u94	Prepare, prepare, Mr. Sok. But the law is already in place. So this may be a recommendation to us who are law-abiding
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u95	From the first to the second reading, we may also have a few years.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-01-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u96	Mr Sok, Mr Mamić's proposal says that the government should prepare and submit it. Therefore, I say that it is irrelevant to decide on this decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I note that the 6th and 7th agenda items have not been completed, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public finances and a proposal for a law on inland navigation. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that those points be postponed to one of the next meetings of the Assembly. This proposal, in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, may be presented by representatives of the parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move to a vote on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude the 13th regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much to all Members and Members and good bye! Thank you also to the representatives of the government and the secretariat.
