ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u1	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. It's ten o'clock. Thursday's today. It's on the agenda. This is the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2003. I ask all those who are in the lobby or in the offices of the National Assembly to come to the grand hall of the National Assembly if they wish to follow this 1st item of the agenda. Let me warn you, dear colleagues and colleagues, that we will vote in a consensual manner, that is, when the point is finished, we will vote on it, so it is impossible to predict when the vote will take place. I suppose today the National Assembly would be working until 6 p.m. If between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. it suggests that perhaps with a short increase, i.e. the extension of our work, we can conclude the meeting today, I will put it to the vote at 6 p.m. or we will continue tomorrow at 10 p.m. The basis for such a decision was the view that there was no exceptional situation in the country and that the State Assembly could normally work in accordance with certain works. In view of today’s specific mode of work, we will also decide whether to give or continue without it. Maybe lunch break, between one and the other hours or maybe an hour ago. We'll see how the debate goes. Perhaps later this afternoon, we would make a decision, and I will try while colleagues and colleagues, vice-presidents, hold a meeting, consult with the leaders of the groups. That's how I think we can proceed with our work. All those of you who have come, I welcome once again, including the representatives of the government. Before we move to decision-making, we have here a proposal from our colleague Jerovska. Can I summarize your proposal? If I do this superficially, I'll give you a chance to complete me. Your proposal was that because of the circumstances in which we have a government in resignation and in your opinion there are no great reasons why we should address the points related to the adoption of the budget this week, you would suggest that this point be postponed to one of the future meetings. Is there anything you'd like to add to what I said, Comrade Jerovšek? Please. Then I will ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups if they wish to make their views known by means of a three-minute debate. You have the floor, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. You have correctly summarized my proposal and I insist, but of course our Group of Members, that, at a time when we have only a government to resign, when we do not even have a financial minister, it is untasteful to discuss the budget for the next two years. Here new ministers will come to the government, completely different people, who will also not actually be committed to the implementation of such a budget, so it is not responsible, not to our citizens, but especially to political practice in Europe. This has not happened in Europe in my opinion and does not happen in a normal country. The adoption of the budget in such a situation is illogical, unacceptable and limits on the farce. Above all, the problem is that this was actually a planned situation. He knew exactly what was going to happen, and he did not try to stop it. We need to adopt the budget when we have an effective government that can stand behind its decisions and in favour of its proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Yesterday I pointed out this - it was also an imperative at the college when we discussed the December work plan that the budget package should be adopted by 1 January. Yesterday, after your performance, my colleague Jerovšek, even at the request of some of our colleagues, I asked the secretary of our legislative and legal service to write me down in writing this morning, whether there are legal conditions for the State Assembly to decide whether or not to make a package of budget proposals on the basis of the comments you made. I have the opinion of Secretary Beatenchev before me, and I'll put him on the bench for all of you. His communication is that, legally, there is no reservation that the government in its power could not participate in the debate in the National Assembly at the time of the adoption of the budget, since the draft budget was sent at the time when the government, which has now resigned, had full powers. So now the proposal to move this point to one of the future meetings is a purely political decision to be decided by the State Assembly by vote. Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? We will vote on the proposal by our colleague Jerovska. Please, Dr. Bajuk, New Slovenia's Group of Members [[three minutes]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We strongly support the proposal made by our colleague Jerovšek of the Social Democratic Party, because we also assess that we are in a special position today, in these weeks, in our country. The special situation is that we have a government in retreat, that we do not yet have a government. The Commissioner, who was confirmed yesterday in the National Assembly, has not yet presented, as far as we know in the opposition, the composition of his proposed government. So we have a special position. Not only do we have a special position with the government in Slovenia, but we also have a special position with regard to the European Union and this meeting in Denmark. Today, newspapers also write, which means that we have as many as three outgoing presidents, one yes, one no, we're somewhere in the middle. The fact is, this isn't serious. And nothing bad would have happened if we had decided that we really wanted to be a national assembly that is responsible for dialogue with the government for a key document, such as the budget for two years. The budget for two years - so this is the period that this new government will have, which will be elected in the coming days. Mr President, I have heard your words that our legislative and legal service has found overnight that there are no legal reasons for this. Yeah, maybe. But common sense only says that if we are to deal with this today, that we are actually telling ourselves that it is impossible to get answers to our questions, because they can't give them anyway. And what's gonna happen? Yes, we will confirm, this assembly here - I have deliberately used this word - will confirm it and will work in advance in some automation that has become a feature of our country's budget. We must act responsibly, we must take on the role that this national assembly has in political and constitutional terms, and we must not agree to speak in an empty and not least out of respect for the new government. I say this with all my responsibility, you know that we are firmly in opposition in New Slovenia, but it seems completely inappropriate for us to adopt a budget today when the new government has to change it. We have heard yesterday, Mr President, how it will change such and other things. And what's gonna happen? In January of the month, we will have a rapid procedure, without any debate, as is happening every day in our working bodies now, and we will change the budget and continue to approve everything that comes to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u5	Look, I think it is important for those colleagues who have not participated in the college meeting to know that we have consulted on issues of government competence in the resignation. Not overnight, the secretary of the legislative and legal service had already stated her position that there were no reservations from a legal point of view in order to address the package of budgetary laws at that time. Even when we spoke on your proposal or on the proposal of the opposition's respected colleagues that we have parliamentary questions and initiatives, it was the view that ministers should come here and answer questions in resignation. We have therefore consulted on these issues before. But since there was a dilemma again yesterday, I asked the secretary to write down her opinion in writing, and you will get it on the bench. My friend Patche wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Despite the fact that the budget act is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it does not comply with that basic standard, namely that its provisions would be serious and well-intentioned for the development of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we are asked if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on behalf of Mr Bandlja and some government Members, has said that I would like to avoid the institution of questions, initiatives and questions, because the Government does not have the power to answer, because the ministers in the resignation must not touch these things, and I ask you, Mr President, whether it makes sense then that we are dealing with the state budget, which is the most important act that actually draws all destiny. Clearly, then, Members and Members of Parliament will not be able to find any interlocutors in the government unless the government finds its own interlocutors, not even within the framework of the Institute of Initiatives and Questions. We probably all agree that, of course, the Institute of Parliamentary Initiatives and Questions is much less important than the state budget. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of this and is striving to act in such a way that, at this time, governments in turn, they avoid initiatives and questions why you are putting a much more important act into the adoption of the National Assembly. Only from the fact that we would like to, perhaps to someone abroad, "sable" and say: "The budget in Slovenia is accepted or accepted in the basic phase". But the purpose of the budget is in its long term. With this principle of work, we believe in the Slovenian National Party that we will not guarantee any long-term. Not even the one that would last at least six months. For this very reason, due to a serious approach to the treatment of public finances in our country, we will support our colleague Jerovska's proposal in the framework of the Slovenian National Party or the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u7	He would like another of the groups to speak, or I will put the proposal of my colleague Jerovška to the vote, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, to place the item at one of the next meetings. I am voting on this proposal from my colleague Jerovska to postpone this point to one of the future meetings. We're in the middle of a vote. There are 65 of us in attendance. 22 for, 40 for. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that this proposal has not been adopted. The National Assembly may proceed to the consideration of the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003. The proposal for amendments was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to a representative of the government who will present the draft amendments to the budget Please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. [[...]] Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure and in view of what the National Assembly has just decided against our will, I would ask for half an hour's rest for advice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u9	We're not ahead of a decision right now, so I can't give you a break right now. I'll definitely give it to you before we make our first decision today. I now ask the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, pardon, first of all Minister of Finance, mag. Robbery, if he wants a word. Please. Then he's chairman of the Finance Committee. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the esteemed President of the National Assembly. We have before us the final act of adopting the draft amendments to the 2003 state budget and the 2004 supplementary draft budget, approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 14.11. Allow me only a brief summary or review of the basic solutions, given that a detailed presentation of the 2003 and 2004 budget changes has already been presented in the National Assembly. Thus, I will only present some basic parameters and, of course, some features of the proposed changes in the 2004 supplementary draft budget. Your Honor! Over the next two years, our country is expected to become a member of NATO and the European Union. The changes that await us there will, of course, touch all layers of our lives. As far as the budget is concerned, the changes will have both direct and indirect implications, from the way in which the objectives are prepared, to the setting of targets, to the range of resources for certain tasks, to the execution and budget control. In this respect, of course, it represents a larger border for entry into the European Union, with which we are now also concluding negotiations on the financial package for the period 2004 to 2006. Soon after entry, we are already awaiting negotiations on the financial package for the period 2007/2013. I would like to explain to you below only the basic principles which the Government has taken into account in the preparation of the draft budget for both years. They consist of three related rules. The first rule is that the current expenditure of the budget, which includes both the legal and contractual obligations of the State, must be covered by the current revenue of the budget. If current revenue is more than expenditure, the surplus may be earmarked for investment expenditure. The new net indebtedness of the country is intended only for the financing of investment expenditure, but not for the financing of current expenditure. This rule is known as the Golden Fiscal Rule. The third rule, however, is a safeguard against over-indebtedness and says that the State can only be in charge of financing investment expenditure up to a level that does not increase the public debt measured as a share of the gross domestic product. Countries that succeed in not violating those fiscal rules for a longer period generally have sound or sustainable public finances and are absolute. Although it can grow in size, in relative terms it falls. As has already been said, the Slovenian Government has also decided to adhere to these rules in the preparation of the budget for the next two years. As regards the proposal for amending the 2003 budget, the implementation of current revenues is estimated at 1,373 billion dollars and current expenditure, including subsidies, at 1,293 billion. This year, the surplus of current revenue over expenditure will total SIT 80 billion and will be fully committed to financing investment expenditure. Moreover, this year's point to finance the deficit in revenue and expenditure balances in the state accounts will be 37.8 billion tolars, which is, of course, less than the projected investment spending of 155.7 billion. In this context, the 2004 supplementary draft budget foresees that the current budget revenue will be 1.477 billion and that the current expenditure will be 1,393. The current revenue over expenditure will thus exceed 84.2 billion. The total investment expenditure will be 165 billion and the net debt amount 57. Dear Members, we can find that the management of a relatively restrictive public finance policy will lead to a reduction in the debt situation of a narrower country measured as a share in a gross domestic product over the next two years. The debt, which is expected to amount to 27.9% of GDP at the end of the year, is expected to be 26.1% of GDP at the end of 2003 and 25.2 at the end of 2004. Within two years, the country's debt will decrease by 2.7 percentage points according to the projection. This will ensure financial stability and, of course, Slovenia's readiness to join the European Union. In this context, it should also be stressed that the government has committed itself to running anti-inflation policies with Banka Slovenije for the next two years, which is expected to reduce the average inflation rate to 5% in the next two years and then to around 4.5 in 2004. Lower inflation is important for several reasons. We've talked about this a lot before yesterday, so I wouldn't particularly explain it. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent committee on the 2004 draft budget, found that some of the amendments tabled significantly improve the structure of the proposed budgetary expenditure in the programme and economic terms. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore ordered that the amendments tabled, opinions, proposals and conclusions of the working bodies be examined and taken into account accordingly when preparing the supplementary draft budget for 2004. At its meeting on 14.11, the Government adopted the text of the supplementary proposal, which makes sense to summarise the content of these amendments, opinions, proposals and conclusions. After re-examination of the draft budget, we agreed in the government that some expenditure should be increased in the supplementary draft budget, in particular for education, culture and, of course, investment. The Government thus notes that the proposed amendments to the 2004 draft budget also improve the programme and economic structure of the proposed budget on the basis of these additions given to the home committee and taking account of these additions. The adoption of the 2004 draft budget will, of course, not end the work on the final version of the budget. The government and all of us still have a lot of efforts to make a budget, which will also include financial flows with the European budget. For all of us, this will, of course, be a new experience that the government has been intensively preparing for several years, and only then will it be confirmed in practice if preparations have been good, where there are weaknesses and what else will have to be done to make the results optimal in the budgetary sense. We estimate that in the first period of full membership in the European Union, over 80% of Slovenia's total contribution to the European Union budget will depend directly on the volume and estimates of gross national income. Slovenia will have to officially announce growth in gross national income for 2004 in Brussels by April next year. This will then serve to determine our contribution to the European budget. The Government is aware that the transition to a relatively new way of financing development projects through the purpose of the common agricultural policy of the Structural and Cohesion Funds will require new organisational engagements in the functioning of certain ministries and governments as a whole, partly a new way of planning financial flows, preparing the implementation of the budget and overseeing the implementation of the budget. In part, the new situation will also need to be adapted to the Public Finance Act. Dear Members and Members, Mr President! I propose that you adopt the draft amending budget for 2003 and the 2004 supplementary draft budget, which, in our view, constitute a good basis for a successful work in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. As I announced earlier, I now ask the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Comrade Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee. Please, my colleague, the chairman of the committee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 were considered by the Committee of the National Assembly as the working body of the State at its meeting on 10 December of this year. In doing so, we also had the views of 13 interested working bodies, which I would not specifically refer to as material. We have discussed the 51 amendments tabled, qualified candidates, namely Members of the parliamentary groups, the Committee on Relations of Slovenians in Replace and Worldwide, and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as interested working bodies. In the general debate, the members of the Committee gave different opinions, raised some questions and raised some concerns about the proposed changes to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003. Thus, the opinion was expressed that, due to Slovenia's involvement and openness to the international environment, we are in a precarious situation, which shows different data on the result or forecasts of economic developments. As a result, the budget seems to be set over the envelopes of the actual funding capacity, so there would be caution, in particular on the expenditure side of the budget. In the opinion expressed, what concrete measures the Government intends to take in this area should be explained. In particular, the area of innovative companies dealing with high technology is problematic, as resources for research and development are only difficult to provide as a result of administrative barriers. With the adoption of a programme of measures to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness, coordination between ministries, public administration cooperation and the business sector should be strengthened in order to remedy the situation, and budgetary stimulation should be increased accordingly. On the basis of the budgetary structure so far, substantial underfunding is being allocated to the regions. It is inappropriate to establish, through a cut across ministries, regional development agencies as initiators of strategic development and implementation programmes for their implementation. Therefore, according to the panellists, a change in the budgetary concept for regional policy development on the regions would be necessary. There are still issues of budgetary deficit and parallel indebtedness in the wake of a marked decline in economic growth. In addition to the growth in consumption, high average wages are evident in the observable imbalance with the performance of economic growth. In addition, it is questionable to present optimistic forecasts of regional development funds that have not yet been realised. All these or other observations or opinions from the debate were answered by the representative of the applicant, the State Secretary, in particular those relating to the tax debt, regarding the purchase and consumption of the money from the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. It also responded to questions related to the budget deficit. The Committee then moved on to a concrete debate on the individual amendments tabled and adopted the following decisions. The Committee supported the amendments, which I will briefly outline below: a change in the budget line or a transfer from the activities of the National Assembly related to the co-financing of political parties to the budgetary user of the General Secretariat of the Government; a further amendment increasing the resources of the Slovenian Language Office, the sub-programme for the preservation of the Slovenian language, the New Slovenia Group's drafter; then an increase in funds through the amendment to the administration of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue, the Ministry of Economy, the sub-programme for specific regional policy measures, and some others that would not be specifically cited. I propose, my fellow Members and my fellow Members, that the National Assembly support all amendments supported by the mother's working body and the four amendments which the Committee has tabled and tabled as amendments to the Committee on the basis of the amendments tabled by qualified candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. We will now listen to the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give the floor to my colleague, Mr Kebrich, on behalf of the DeSUS delegation, to my colleague, Mr Pečet, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. First, my friend Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, with co-workers and co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u15	A little louder, Comrade Kebrich, it sounds bad. And the rest of you, I'm asking them to give peace in the hall. Please, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u16	In the Group of Members, we are aware of the responsibility when adopting a budget change. We are aware that change is necessary. Normally, the reason for the change may be subjective that someone miscalculated, planned, or objective if different circumstances dictated by a different budget have arisen, different items. We believe that the problem is mainly about objective reasons. We therefore welcome, on the one hand, given the hope that the inflow to the state budget is lower than planned, and, of course, if we do not want to increase a certain deficit, we must also reduce the items that require expenditure from the state budget. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support those amendments adopted by the mother's working body and I will tell you why. We are participating in this committee and have had the opportunity to make proposals and comments there. Therefore, we believe that a certain filter, forgive this expression, this mother's working body, because when the multitude of amendments that we have studied dictated that if all of them were accepted, then certain budget items would even come down, as many amendments require one and the same budget item, which is not as big as the requirements for certain amendments. That is why we believe that everyone is defending a particular area, but I will not be evil to say local patriotism, given the needs of his surroundings, to make the voters more involved, because the time of future elections is no longer far away. Therefore, we believe in the Group of Members that it is right that a certain analysis of the amendments has been carried out, that there has been sufficient opportunities in the Working Body to defend or expose certain problems and, in this regard, also the requirements for the rebalancing of certain items. Let me conclude by voting primarily and exclusively in our parliamentary group for those amendments supported by the mother's working body. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u17	Thank you, Comrade Kebrich. I now invite my colleague Pečet to the microphone, and he will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. He will be given the floor of his colleague Vizjak to present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. My friend Peca first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. We have already submitted a basic disagreement with the budget act in the Slovenian National Party on the basis of the proposal tabled by Mr Jerovšek. So around seriousness and around credibility, on the one hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the other hand, the existing government, that is, the governments in the resignation and third party of this National Assembly, which, on the one hand, avoids discussions on initiatives and issues, because it says that the government's responses would not be credible and, on the other hand, wants to discuss the state budget in any way, which they think is completely credible. Public financial policy in our country. It is probably only from the report of the old Prime Minister and the new Prime Minister to detect some kind of optimism and some kind of thankfulness that we have made some progress in this country in recent years in all areas, and this kind of progress is not reflected in small progress but in great progress. The facts and life in our country, according to our assessment, speak differently. Speaks exclusively or puts the claims of both the old and the new Prime Minister on the lie. This means that public debt is increasing, despite attempts to stop inflation, that the finance ministry is increasing from one month to the next, exclusively for the current needs of our country and that the bonds are increasing to this extent, that we will soon be at RS 100. As for the concrete act that we have before us, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we have focused in particular on the structure in the Slovenian National Party, namely the structure of revenue. We are probably all aware together of the fact that we are in this Chamber that customers of state budget funds would be found in each city, in each municipality, and that anyone who is more or less involved in state administration, directly or indirectly, would be prepared to withdraw these funds. In fact, we are concerned about the income, the money that this country collects so that it can then have, according to our assessment, uneconomically, these funds. In particular, as regards specific tax revenues. The tradition of continuing, increasing tax revenues in all revenue continues. Even if we look at the draft amendments to the 2003 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we see that the tax revenues, the revenue from this title, as proposed by the amendments, amount to 1270 billion Slovenian tolars out of a total of 1394 billion. This means that, within the executive branch of that country, there is no possibility or the ability of financial resources to obtain from at least those sources called non-taxable resources. As a result of this pay phone, our assessment of the well-founded criticism of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can be seen, since I think that all local communities, in terms of the structure of the budget, are inadequately superior to the Slovenian government. When we ask ourselves why or why it is, the answer is, of course, very simple. The easiest thing to do, and according to our assessment, is to fill the budget with the least quality and thus provide money for consumers exclusively through fiscal policy. As we know, this National Assembly, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance over the past few times, has increased various taxes in order to obtain in the country those money that, on the other hand, are uneconomically spent, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the political line, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, we consider it to be very strange purchases around moving or immovable things. If we look at the indexation of all the main accounts in the framework of the 2001 tax revenue from the 2003 amendment, we see that this indexation is much higher than the inflation growth during this period, not as a normal indexation from year to year, but that this country is not only continuing with the tradition of impoverishment of people, legal and natural persons, but that it is building up this tradition with an ever-increasing burden. However, in the context of tax revenues, which I think should be the basis for debate or budget composition, it is reasonable to say what we have stressed in the past budgets and in the various changes in these budgets in the Slovenian National Party, this is the performance of the so-called Lafber phenomenon. The country cannot always count on the country's revenues to increase if we raise tax rates. This, however, holds to a limit and goes up, both tax rates and tax revenues. But when we go beyond Lafber’s so - called point, the moment we get to the impoverished potential taxpayer, of course, the story does not go as far as we would like. It is true, however, that until the point is reached, this is the easiest, but unfortunately the worst, measure used in practice by the Slovenian Government. This seems to us to be controversial, especially in view of the fact that the Ombudsman also presented to us when he was transferred. This is that more and more people, according to some data almost 300,000, live on the threshold of poverty and that only 8,000 people have monthly benefits over two million Slovenian tolars. So we're making a breakthrough in society. But we're taxing them. In the Slovenian National Party, we find this completely pointless and should approach the structure in a different way. This is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance and all institutions involved in the preparation of this act would give particular emphasis or stronger emphasis to the recent revenues. Yesterday I looked at the magnetic notes of past meetings, where the third-generation concession's revenues are promising. We also looked at yesterday's revenue from the profits of public companies, but what if they do not pursue the objective of non-tax revenue due to the already known structure of the legal form of these companies, on the one hand d.d., a capital company, on the other hand, a public company, a law on public companies which basically says that these companies are solely public interest and that their profits are not a priority, compared to those with the capital company code d.d. In some local communities, perhaps only in the Ministry of Finance's teaching, therefore, the concession revenue, whether direct or indirect, will be several times the amount required in the Republic of Slovenia or at the national level. As far as the latest criticism, or the last mention of a critical criticism to this budget is concerned, because the whole budget is critical and I will not accept it in all respects, of course, it is a matter of debt. In the Slovenian National Party, we claim, and here I ask that you reject, if only possible, our claim that our country of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of current consumption under the management of this suit; that the debt is both in international markets and within, at this moment only to cover the current needs of the Slovenian Government. However, each debt should be the answer to the fact that the bonds are at such a lower interest rate and that this is one of the quality effects of the Slovenian government or the activities of the Slovenian government, but we must be aware that at some point in time, five, seven, twelve, I do not know how many periods all have Slovenian bonds, but it will be necessary to return both the principal and interest. I don't think we'll find customer bonds for a long time at an ever lower interest rate. One day we will have to face the fact that what is borrowed will also have to come back. So, ladies and gentlemen, at this point it is too much for Slovenia to return. Public debt, if we look at the resident, at every resident, not exclusively at a full-year old, but at each, exceeds 700,000 Slovenian tolars. In the form of bonds of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia alone, the Ministry of Finance commissioned over 55,000 Slovenian Tolars for each citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia this year. We also find it humiliating by the former Minister of Finance to say here in front of the TV cameras that he would be happy to explain public debt and bonds if the National Assembly calls him to do so. Then the same Members, with the possibility of voting on the inclusion of public debt and bonds, vote against. As long as this farce continues, either the Minister or the representative of Liberal Democracy in the government will speak - and he said yesterday that he would be happy to explain certain dilemmas in public finances, and then when we put this to the vote in the National Assembly, the National Assembly will say, no, we do not want to hear it. I think this is one of the main criticisms of the main actor's action in the field of public finances. Public finances in our country are worrying. However anyone tries to present this budget as a good traveller, we need to know that there have been quite a few changes in this budget and that there will be more. So talking about giving budget users a green light for their planning, because they will know what lies ahead for them in the coming years, is a farce. We will change these numbers several times on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, just as so far, because there is the exact same system of budget adoption and preparation, we cannot support this because we do not want to participate in this so-called public financial farce or crisis, however you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Pec. Mag. Vizjak will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, followed by a colleague of Dr. Andrej Bajuk, for the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! The debate on the budget for 2003 or any other year coming, without any serious macroeconomic analysis or any involvement in any movement in this area, is very, I would say, bilateral. I think that the debate on the budget should also contain a serious macroeconomic analysis. The budget must reflect some policy of stabilising some unfavourable macroeconomic trends. Unfortunately, we note that this budget does not answer some key questions in this area. The budget should also clearly reflect the government's policy, i.e. the trends and priorities set by the government in the coming period. Last but not least, from the speech of the current Finance Minister and the new Prime Minister, we have been able to understand the whole set of emphasis, priority, substantive orientations of the future government, but unfortunately we do not see this in this budget. Let me initially stop at some macroeconomic indicators in the Republic of Slovenia over the last ten years, i.e. economic growth indicators, inflation indicators and public finances and debt indicators of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as economic growth indicators are concerned, it has been shown that we have anticipated higher economic growth than it later proved. Even in this period, as the year approaches, we come closer to some real ground. I think that the assessment of economic growth is very important in terms of planning, including budget expenditure, and therefore I believe that in the unfavourable situation that we are witnessing in both European and global space after 11 September last year, this uncertainty is making it very prudent to plan expenditure at the level of the state budget in the coming years. But no, the budget is very optimistic about revenue, and even more optimistic about expenditure. In view of the economic forecasts, the forecasts of economic growth I believe and we believe that this would be the case in planning to have a much greater degree of caution. As far as inflation is concerned, it is becoming a practical trauma both to governments and to the Bank of Slovenia and to all others, who somehow have to implement some serious policy of reducing inflation. I do not think that there has been a clear anti-inflation programme in the National Assembly and not in the opposition for the next years. Some measures have been imposed on the government to deal with this problem, but unfortunately we do not see, we do not see a concrete anti-inflation programme for the coming period. In particular, such a programme, which will not immediately reduce inflation, will reduce inflation and this level of reduced inflation will keep the medium-term or long-term period. Other indicators of public finances and debt in the Republic of Slovenia also apply. The public sector, or public sector expenditure, is particularly problematic, where we can see from the analysis that public sector expenditure and budget expenditure have somehow increased and came through some forecast percentage at the beginning of this government's performance. The government, I also warned yesterday, announced that the share of public sector expenditure would be around 42% of gross domestic product. This turned out to be 44.48 percent in 2001, and there is no evidence of a backlog of this trend. In short, public sector expenditure is far above what the government has set itself at the beginning of this mandate. It is similar to budget deficits. The promise that the deficit will no longer exist in 2004 is that it has been screwed. From the analysis, it is clear that the budget deficit is rising or that in the year to come, a number of skeletons that have fallen from the cabinets of past years, and of course only unrealistic optimists still believe that we will be in surplus in the coming medium term. Finally, the Secretary of State’s announcements in charge of this area are clear that we will not see the ceiling or surplus for a few years. When we talk about the debt of the Republic of Slovenia, we can see that in the past period this debt has grown and that it has been a common debt, this is the debt of a wider country, which has already reached the ceiling set by the government at the beginning of this mandate, that is about 40 per cent. In fact, the government promised and in the coalition contract stated that the debt of the Republic of Slovenia would range between 35 and 40 percent. It is now clear that if the purchase from the New Ljubljana Bank is not strictly used to pay public debt, this debt will increase by over 40 per cent. In short, when we look at this analysis of these macro-economic indicators in the Republic of Slovenia, it is more than clear that in this way we can plan expenditure and unrealistically plan revenue, because expenditure can be realistically planned, we can spend for two budgets or for three accounts. The problem is in real planning the revenue of the state budget to get stuck here. It focuses on a number of areas in which these revenues are planned. One of the essentials is the unrealistic assessment of economic growth and also the credibility of multiannual budgets falling. Why? The number of amendments and the number of additions to these budgets, rebalancings and changes has the credibility of multi-annual budgetary planning in such a methodology as it is today, so I think it would be worth making a difference here. I'd like to highlight an important area, that's the area of taxes. They assess in government and the Ministry of Finance that taxes, in particular direct taxes or value added taxes, will no longer be able to be collected or eliminated in this area. This is also a reflection of a number of other related issues, from public sector spending, private sector spending. I think that this reduction in tax collection would also be worth analyzing and somehow seeing where the reason is. I think that the reason for this tax service to become increasingly inefficient is because of negative staff selection, because of the lack of money invested in education and the efficiency of this tax service, and the consequences are that these people are only trying to do their job, that they are ineffective and, of course, the inflow into the state treasury is less. As far as the expenditure side of the budget is concerned, I would like to point out that a transparent policy is expected to be a priority. This means that the budget would reflect some government policy to know where this government is going, what this government wants, and that the budget is not just more or less a beautiful correction of the budgets already adopted over the past years or some kind of budget indexation. Let me mention a few typical examples that these priorities, which the government will not end up writing in budgetary memoranda and documents, do not reflect reality. I've got one of the cases ahead of me, and that's this third, unfortunate third school toll. A few months ago, a law on basic development programmes in the field of education and science was practically adopted unanimously in the National Assembly, from 2003 to 2008. How will the law be implemented in this so-called school toll, which includes development programmes in the six areas, research and development activities, adult education that will contribute to greater employability, information and communication literacy, the regional network of higher and higher schools and their linkages with the economy, the development of healthy nutrition in primary and secondary schools and investment in education. The Act provides for certain amounts for each year, and a list of schools is drawn up, which are planned for the start of the investment. However, concrete implementation will unfortunately be confirmed by the annual budgets and the government. I must say that this law has already been implemented in the coming years and the coming year will not be implemented to the default extent. This is what we are saying, on the one hand, we are talking about the fundamental priority of knowledge-based society, we are adopting a law in this House, and when we look at the budget, how we will implement the law, we see that this will not be possible. Where is the priority of the government here, honourable Members and Members? Where's that application written down here? Of course, this law has a guardian. It has this fuse, if we don't finance it in 2003, we can finance it in the next few years, and then finally, let's say, we get there. However, it must be said that delays in combination with inflation in the planned investment may be encouraged and thus make it more difficult to implement the target. Another important segment is the development of the economy. Slovenia is particularly faced with two sets of developmental weaknesses in ensuring sustainable development: the first is reflected in the weak links between the scientific and research and educational spheres with the economic sphere and the second is the slow pace of labour market reforms and the financial trader of public sector infrastructure, including the country. I think we are lagging behind in the transfer and use of knowledge and funding mechanisms that are facilitating this transfer. Very poor results are in the area of regional development, where these regional differences have increased in recent years and should be reversed. We can't measure the efficiency of the economy. We have not put in place mechanisms to measure the efficiency of the economy, not only the smaller economy that we all have in mind, but also important sectors such as agriculture. We are talking about investing in increasing competitiveness, in increasing productivity, in increasing the added value of production, in increasing innovation, in technological development, while we do not know how to measure what has been achieved - or how these trends are moving in the Slovenian economy and, of course, what are the effects of government policy in this area. This clearly shows that what is written in the budget, in the memoranda, can never be checked, is, as far as we give 500 million, a little less or a little more, to this area, and we think we have done something and guaranteed and met these objectives. But it's not like that. This is similar to regional development. Yesterday, I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's presentation when he said that regional development or strengthening of these centres, local centres, regional centres, would be necessary, in particular with finance, with the money they would distribute in accordance with their programmes in an appropriate manner between the economy and other consumers. Where this is in this budget, I ask you or how the picture of this change is taken, it is said that Ljubljana will no longer move regional money, but that the regions will divide it within the regions. Where is this reflected in this budget? The policy of coherent regional development is once again one proof of a dead letter on paper, when we are talking about what we want, what we are doing, but at the same time we note that we are moving away from these objectives because the differences are increasing, but we are not doing practically anything or there are no significant changes in the 2003 figures of this budget. I would like to highlight another area where I have also worked in recent years, this is the area of employment where we see the story seen. We see a budget that is more or less the same as those of previous years. According to some positive trends, the unemployment rate fell below 100,000 in last year's year. Now there are about 105,000 unemployed persons from the records of the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. When we look at the budget, we don't see any structural changes, nothing. We do not see - in fact, we even see in the revised budget the reduction of the resources of the category of people more difficult to employ than those with disabilities, we do not see any changes other than replacing some records, making it harder to put them in a special register so that we can keep them easier to keep in other records. And I wonder how we're going to solve this burning problem of the Slovenes and the Slovenians - this is a pretty high rate, for our situation, a pretty high rate of unemployment - in a way that really structural nothing is done. I would like to point out that saving unemployment or opening up new jobs is an interdepartmental area, not an area of one ministry, not an area of two ministries, this is the area of a whole cluster of ministries, from the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education, not to mention the Ministry of Finance. In short, a coordinated approach is needed, but unfortunately it does not produce fruit because it is written down that we do not want to put into action and into money. In short, I would like to conclude that, according to macroeconomic indicators, Slovenia is in some unpredictable time, not only because of the situation within the country, but also because of our involvement in an environment where economic movements are quite uncertain for the coming year. The forecasts vary from month to month, so it would be more prudent to plan budget spending in such a situation, so that we do not spend significantly more money than it does in the Treasury, so that we respect and only in programmes and measures and in money implement the priorities we have set, but not that we index budgets every year and thus maintain the status quo and, of course, increase differences, both between people and regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now we are used to talking to an empty hall, but today it is a new specialty. We also talk about empty work here because behind us are officials who can't actually answer the questions that we've asked. We will, then, do this work according to the old congregational patterns and everything will go on. Yesterday, we heard a great deal in this National Assembly of Commissioners, as he promised fiscal policy would be subordinated to the new objective. And this is to reduce inflation to such a level that Slovenia will allow entry into the European Union and then into monetary links in the euro area. Of course, we do have before us a document that was prepared - I hope we don't know, maybe with the same goal or not. Oh, but! You just have to ask yourself, how do we plan public spending? Yes, as always, we now see a great gap between words and actions in this area. In this regard, the great coalition, especially the Liberal Democracy, proved the highest level of expertise: how nice to speak, and then to work at home on the basis of completely different patterns than those preached in the public. And that is how we now have budget spending planning for a wider period. Two-year budget. He's a good listener. Well, that sounds good. However, when we look at how this has been done, what the actual executive is sending us, we have a lot of questions and, of course, an assessment that we cannot be satisfied with this. Why? With a two-year budget and a plan for development projects or programmes prepared in the form of a Wish List by the Slovenian Government for several years now, Slovenia wants to follow the European Union and OECD countries, which have already mainly introduced multi-annual planning since 2000. The definitions and methodologies of multi-annual budgetary planning differ between them - between these countries - in time and space, Slovenia is approaching those requirements that will have to be met as a member of the European Union in this area. Everything's fine and fine. But what do we have? It is important to ask what purpose we are pursuing with these changes in budgetary planning or what other countries should really pursue. The basic principle of multi-annual budgetary planning and programming should be: to increase the discipline of the state administration, which requires the following factors affecting each other. Firstly: setting common fiscal policy objectives and setting out explicitly how the government will achieve them. These objectives lead to a reduction in public spending. Secondly: achieving better information on the future costs of existing government policies, which on the one hand serves to introduce the self-discipline of ministries in the preparation of new programmes and, on the other hand, to increase the Government's vigilance in the decisions of the state policy, which can be established immediately in line with fiscal objectives for the future. Thirdly: a greater emphasis is placed on initiating changes in budgetary policy, particularly those that need more than one year to be implemented. Finally: achieving greater clarity on the budgetary implications of the ongoing political decisions for the coming financial years - this is for spending, which is not yet reflected in the budgets. We didn't set all this up for us. We have not set aggregate fiscal constraints, because aggregate fiscal policy is not that in the annual law on budget implementation we define the current level of indebtedness of the larger country, the extent of State guarantees for public sector debt, etc. We are now forecasting the budgetary balance in 2005. By the way, even the medium term would be in line with the mandate of the government or Parliament. To those who will follow us in 2005, this reference stipulates that Slovenia must achieve budgetary balance in 2005. In this reference, obviously for 2004 we will not do anything or fight a little, but we will talk a lot - and we have heard a lot yesterday. First of all, it must be noted that our budget documents cannot determine what is the current statutory spending, which is supposed to be around 75% or even higher, and consumption on the basis of existing current government policies. What is the trend of existing government policies? What is the planned use of new government policies? Where are the savings on abandoning existing policies so that new ones can be realized? The other thing we need to find out is that our definitions of terms and content, what is a budget programme or sub-programme, permanent tasks or activities, as well as investment projects, are not clear. In addition, the budget document does not provide us with information or data on the planned total consumption by programme when these are divided into several budget users - there is simply no sum. The budget documents also lack the consistency between the economic and fiscal classification visible by individual budget user and between the budgetary classification by programme at the level of the overall budgetary expenditure. There is also a lack of transparent data or there is no relationship between budget programmes and investment planning in investment projects - construction and purchase - in the budget document. It is not clear what it means that a ministry has written down or detailed in its development programme plan to finance the construction of such a project and such a project in 2005. Is this already a right and this right will also be a mandatory component of the 2005 budget? What do the planned data mean after 2005? Is this a list of wishes, or does this also indicate that current ministers - now without a mandate - will be able to assume payment obligations in the coming years by 2004? Or both? Even under the provisions of the law on the implementation of the budget for the next two years, there is a power to accept commitments, as "commitments", for payment in the coming years without a time limit. So the question is what is covered by the data "development programmes after 2005". In order to understand the monitoring of budgetary spending and, last but not least, to set up accounts, the essence of democratic regulation is therefore lacking in a clear definition of certain elementary parts or components of programmes and projects. Among them are time-consuming and, secondly, the total value of a project or sub-programme - this is mentioned only in some. It is necessary to know which budgetary programmes are multiannual and which long-term or permanent - legal obligations. Some programmes are time-bound, for example, until 2005 or 2006, for most of the deadlines, but only long-term objectives are described. But what in the budget from a time perspective is a long-term goal - we do not know, I hope the government knows; and if it knows how to say it. These long-term objectives are, in our view, only a description of the basic functions of the ministries and their subordinated bodies or agencies. How should the National Assembly therefore assess the performance of the budget programmes, how can we measure their achievements - what is known in world literature under the name "performance time targets". Our programmes have the most often, but not fully, defined means for their implementation - "inputs" - but they do not have defined, most often, "outputs", that is to say, achievements and even less "outcoms" or expected effects of the achievements of the programmes. In this area, we may find the least problems at the theoretical level in the highway construction programme. We know how many roads we will build - "output" - a little less precisely how much budget resources we really need - "input" - because we are prepared to continuously increase or approve them to achieve the "output" goal. We know very, very little about the criteria for the cost-effectiveness or cost-effectiveness of building our motorways, or about what kind of money the same mile of road would build, for example, in neighbouring countries. We are not interested in the so-called "bench mark", but we are even less interested in how the government and Dars manage the public debt of this title, and what burden will we bear from this to future generations. When Members judge the programmes of individual departments, they could agree that the most exemplary on the "input" side has prepared programmes, both for 2003 and for 2004, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. But when we look at the objectives of their programs, these are just wishes descriptions, without criteria for "outcome". When we look at last year's budget consumption for agriculture and compare the most general indicators, that is the growth of gross domestic product and added value in agricultural activities, we ask ourselves whether the described objectives can indeed be a way to success. We don't know! From 1999 to 2001, agriculture recorded a negative growth in gross domestic product and value added and a decline in the share of the total gross domestic product. During this period, the growth of the total gross domestic product and value added in all activities or in the country was positive and in agriculture it was counter-negative. The real growth of gross domestic product and value added in this activity was negative in 1999 minus 2.1 in 2000 minus 1, in 2001 minus 2.1. The share of agriculture, forestry, fisheries in gross domestic product in 1997 was still 4%, now around 3%. While the Ministry of Agriculture foresees that gross domestic product growth is also expected to be 3% in agriculture for 2003, 3% in 2002 and only 2% in 2003 and 1% in 2004. However, whether these objectives can be achieved in a programming way that does not impose any responsibility on anyone to make accounts for an attainable objective, we do not know. You'll say, in recent years we've been plagued by droughts and other floods. My question will be whether we are really cultivating the right cultures in the areas affected by drought year after year. What about irrigation projects? More than having received a visit from the minister of Israel last year, we have not heard of this competent Israeli minister in our public. Or we are waiting for us to blame our actions on integration into the European Union. Second case. We write in the latest state documents, and we also say that we want to be "a knowledge-based society." It's learning society - how nice it sounds! But can we be sure of this from education programmes and programmes to promote technological development? Do we know today's standards of primary school education, secondary education, higher education? Will we maintain these standards in the future or will we improve them? The president of the Management Board of the University of Ljubljana is now, Mr. candidate for Finance Minister, Dr. Maramor - recently raised these issues in public and warned that the student ratio: the teacher at the Slovenian University is the worst in fact this criterion is one of the fundamental indicators for achieving success in education. There is still a great deal to be done in this area in order for Slovenia to implement "performance management" or to achieve results-oriented budgetary spending. Therefore, our reform process has not yet been concluded or concluded, as the government has even concluded in its opening statement for 2003, 2004, as well as some economic commentators. They've already done it, it's done it, it's done it. But when you look at it, you find it's not. In the management or management of public spending, we are at the very beginning. In reviewing or reviewing the final accounts of the State budget for 2001, in this area, which I am now talking about, the prudent Court of Auditors was unable to write down critical findings, in which there was also a sentence. And I now quote - and quote from the Rapporteur: "We estimate that in individual cases reporting on the objectives and results achieved in 2001 the reporting costs are higher than the benefits offered by the report." Or at home, it's not worth the paper it's written on. Why am I saying this now? Because our government has taken the documents we have before us from this final account. We are therefore convinced that the necessary path to efficient, efficient and efficient public spending would be to be defined by the rules and standards of the law, as some countries have done in this area that are intended to serve as a model for us. That's not what the ruling coalition expects. There is still a long way to go to these objectives or to a greater extent the European Union will direct from the point of view of its control points. Besides, it's good for us, of course. We can create such an image by reading a description of tasks or a description of the financial ministry's programmes in this area. Especially the Ministry of Finance - because we also consider fish to smell at the head. I will only give evidence of the so-called programme or sub-programme: the area of public accounting, page 543 Rapporteurs, these few thousand parties, which we will now adopt after a rapid procedure. I read the area of public accounting: "A fundamental mission in accounting, is accounting control and ensuring the purposeful use of budgetary resources, the opposite and correct recording of business events in business books, allowing for the production of correct financial statements that express the fair and real state of the funds, the obligation to resources, income and expenditure." The key public accounting tasks are as follows. They are quoted as saying five: "the management of accounting and business accounts for budget users, the composition of accounts for budget users for whom we manage accounting, the production of a cash balance sheet for direct users of the state budget, for which we manage accounting, the preparation of system-wide accounting and cooperation legislation in the preparation of the system-wide budget legislation, and the establishment and maintenance of information support for the single management of accounting for direct budgetary users." Nice. Very professional. One of the key tasks, as I have read, is that the sub-programme of this public accounting is, as is clear from this quote, the creation of a property balance sheet for direct users of the state budget. When will the Ministry of Finance achieve this goal? Hey, it's not set. This deadline has been established by the former Yugoslav Accounting Act, which was in force since 1999, and is laid down by the new Accounting Act, which has been in force since 2000. This is every year in the final account. But Drnovskov's government and what my fellow Member mentioned as a minor change - in the Public Finance Act that same year stated that the country's final account would be only a balance sheet of revenue and expenditure in Parts A, B and C. Why not a balance sheet and a balance of assets? Why can these great coalitions allow themselves to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states in the second paragraph that the State shall show its assets in the assets balance sheet? That is what I asked the previous Commissioner and there was no answer. Also in Slovenian schools - we go to another area - it is one of the fundamental skills acquired by participants in economic subjects in secondary schools and universities, that every business person or person of the public sector in its annual report reports on the business outcome of the current year and the state of the property. This is not something that the Prime Minister and the newly elected President of the State should know? Well, and now the question is, when will the representatives of the people and all taxpayers be allowed to know or see the property balance sheets of direct budgetary users and the narrower country since 1992?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u23	Mr. Dr. Bayuk [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u24	When will the privatisation of state property, its capital investments in enterprises be over? When will the government coalition write down everything it intends? Time's up, I'll keep moving on to the next point, but I have a lot to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Ferry Horvat, United List [[5 minutes announced]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives and representatives of the current government! Allow me to briefly present the views of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Our Group will support the draft amendments to the 2003 budget, not only because, as members of the government coalition with other partners and in the cooperation of our ministers in the government, we have drawn up this proposal, but mainly for substantive and programmatic reasons. First of all, I must conclude that a change in the budget is necessary or necessary in view of the expected lower revenues. In doing so, it must be recognised that the change in the overall budget volume is relatively small - on the income side, a reduction of 0.8% and on the expenditure side by 0.3%. In particular, given that Slovenia, as an open and largely Western market, could not have avoided slowing down growth and, as a result, our imports or exports, in particular the European Union market, which had and must have had an impact on the reduction of gross domestic product growth in our country. The November forecasts of the most prominent European and global institutions, the European Commission, the OECD, the International Monetary Fund and others are changing their initial forecasts of gross domestic product growth downwards, predicting a slowdown in international markets - we have also heard this Monday from representatives of the International Monetary Fund mission. We estimate that changes in the composition of budget expenditure are important for the development and successful integration of Slovenia into the European Union. In doing so, I think that when spending is cut, the proposal foresees an increase in funds for the purposes of economic growth, increasing competitiveness, greater social justice and environmental protection, and so on. This is mainly for the following purposes: increasing resources for science and technological development, where so far there has been a great deal of backlog, increasing resources for education, restructuring and particularly helping firms in difficulty, particularly in the textile and leather and manufacturing industries, we have adopted a special law and proposed an amendment to increase funds for this purpose, and I propose that we jointly support it. An increase in investment is important; it is important to increase resources for active employment policy and to preserve social security; and it is necessary to increase housing resources and to increase environmental protection. All of this and what else are the ingredients that are a condition for economic and social development. With these changes to the 2003 budget, we are following the good direction of Slovenia's economic development strategy, as well as the budgetary memorandum, more than in previous years. Finally, a few words on the subject of two-year budgets. We believe that, despite the uncertainties in the international environment, the two-year budgets are meaningful, even if they need to be corrected. This is finally done by other countries with two-year budgets. The two-year budgets are particularly useful for planning, preparing and implementing investments that already require a medium- to long-term approach by nature. It is better to have programmes and budgets and to adapt or modify them, if necessary, than not to have them and to act from year to year, as it seems to us. Let me use the parable. In an adverse situation, good instruments and good teams are even more important for safe navigation than in favourable weather conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Roberto Battelli, the Nationality Community, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll talk if I can get out of here, so we can get a good look at the Ministry of Finance, because I intend to say something about the budget methodology for the financing of the national communities. We have this funding distributed through the departments and at the Nationality Office, that's right. It is better that things are so arranged than if there were only one item for the activities and needs of the national communities. This is for practical reasons and also for formal reasons. This reflects, in fact, the philosophy of so-called national policy in the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for respect for minority language and identity on the one hand, while at the same time integrating national communities into the whole society. This is also reflected in these two special seats in this House. In my view, this model is successful, consistent and objectively translates, despite the problems that are emerging, in fact a great deal of value in this country, in this society. In short, the budget is articulate as it is, and it is right that it is. It is also right that the needs of the national communities are financed by the State. And here we are now meeting the essential one, which - in my opinion - should be happening and not happening. When it comes to articulation of this, in fact, the national communities do not cooperate, but their vital needs, the field of information, culture and so on are financed exclusively from the state budget. Now that the state has the field of justice, health and so on and so on, the national communities have certain life needs that mainly affect education and education, information, culture, language rights. These are the pillars that, ever since there have been standards for the protection of national communities or minorities in the world, in history, these are the pillars that form the basis for protecting minority identities. This is in our constitution, in all the documents that this Parliament has ratified on this subject as well. So, like the state has its constitutional elements, they are constitutional elements of the national communities. Therefore, when articulating the budget, we should be aware of this in such a way that these core activities would be easily and simply indexed, indexed as is the whole budget. In this way, the national communities could also plan their own activities. Just as things are now, it's impossible because you never know, you never know how much money will be available. However, at a given time, within a given period for a specific programme, for a specific project, for a particular investment, that would be the subject of negotiations and subject of discussions and the subject of articulation of a possible priority over a given financial period. And then, of course, we should find and find a consensus on these points. This would also regulate and stabilise the situation in this area, as we have tried in all other areas at a time when the state is moving and dying, in view of the large projects we have all conducted together in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Podobnik, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor. Please. It's been announced for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government in resignation. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the moment is now when Members of the Group and Members and Members of the Plenary can announce themselves for the first time when the state budget is being adopted, since this option has not been available at the plenary session until this stage. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the draft amendments to the 2003 budget. However, since some macroeconomic and other orientations are also very closely linked to the 2004 supplementary draft budget, in my presentation, I will combine this broad framework of reasons for support and our comment here and then, at the 2nd item of the agenda, give a little less attention to the 2004 supplementary draft budget. The fact that the government is proposing amendments to the 2003 budget does not surprise us. First of all, because when we decided that the Slovenian State would have a two-year budget, it was also implicitly decided that the starting point should be adjusted primarily on the budget resources side, but also on the budget expenditure side to the emerging macroeconomic conditions and in particular the general state of the economy. In the Slovenian People's Party as a government party, we will continue to support the government in those efforts to cover or draw up the state budget, which will also be based on some of the proposed assumptions of current indebtedness. He was a magician today. The robbery at this very point was very clear and he said the exact numbers. What is very important, however, is the question of what are the assumptions of current indebtedness. At the same time, we will continue to propose and support in the Slovenian People's Party some of the measures that have already been proposed at this stage at the time of the adoption of the 2000 budget rebalancing. Slovenian public finances are particularly health and pensionable cash registers in such a state that their reform is necessary. Such a reform will not be possible without a consistent economic programme that will ensure the efficient use of budgetary resources for new economic growth. In items: purchase and construction of basic funds and investment transfers - as mag said. Robbery, for 2003, will amount to 155.5 billion Slovenian tolars, representing 16.9% growth in terms of the volume of funds this year, and incentives for housing construction, which will increase by almost 40% in 2003, and will continue to increase in the coming years, and we support it. So, in these two items, in the purchase and construction of basic assets; and in the housing building line there is in fact the basic secret of Slovenian economic growth. We agree that the economy needs extensive budgetary resources for new economic growth, but we are convinced that their current location is not entirely correct. For it is based on the maintenance of current economic operators and does not cause the restructuring of enterprises to continue urgently. What are the basic outlines, as we see in the Slovenian People's Party, of some necessary reforms? First time. It is necessary to continue the reform of the pension system, which started four years ago, was partial, followed the principle of graduality, but the Slovenian public finances require that it continue. Second: reform of health financing. We are aware that health care is practically the most sensitive system. Its operation affects all citizens and citizens in such or other circumstances most directly. The complex financial situation in health is a legitimate concern both between the population and those employed in health organisations. We expect that it will be part of the financial burden on such a reorganisation, which is forecast to be present in the rationalisation of public health institutions, in particular through more rational public procurement, as well as imports of medicines and health materials. Despite the objective weaknesses of the current health model in Slovenia, however, it should be noted that the new system, a new model that will be introduced gradually, cannot be built without a new consensus between all social partners in this area. Thirdly: reform of the labour market and education system. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support all the Government's efforts to increase the budget allocated to education and science. We estimate that the proposed increase in this complementary proposal over the next two years due to objective facts is still too low and will not ensure the development of the education system, as the economy needs to compete in the common European market. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support government planning to prepare a national education programme [[including adults]] and that it will define that in Slovenia there will be at least 60% of the population with higher or higher education in the coming decades. Such an educational standard has been introduced in the majority of developed European countries, to which we will join, and would thus exceed the current educational level. We propose that gradually - we stress, gradually - the resources devoted to budgetary transfers are increasingly devoted to education and science. We estimate that the solution that Slovenian students who regularly carry out their study obligations are not, due to a valid model, entered in a regular procedure to pay higher fees, which also amount to more than 400,000 tolars in public universities. Some neighbouring European countries to anyone who joins the university of state and has a certificate of successful graduation, at any one, including Slovenian high school - for example, Austria provides free studies. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the government in its efforts to specifically focus on the development of the labour market. So far, active employment policy measures have reached a number of positive solutions. Recently, however, we have been called back and told by employers that they are under-incentived to greater employment. I have before me a study of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia; it was carried out in the Celje region on a sample basis) which shows the real situation in this area. The survey covered those who employ more than ten employees. The structure of the employees shows that these companies employ a fifth with primary education, a quarter with vocational and a good quarter with secondary education. Higher levels of education reach less than 11% of employees. Their staffing needs by 2010 - I am talking about companies that have more than ten employees - foresee the employment of one fifth of new workers with completed primary school, a poor third with vocational training, less than 14% with secondary education and only 21% with higher education levels. The Celje region, however, can be somewhat comparable to many other Slovenian regions, and such a situation is worrying and calls for the government to respond more agilely here. The next area in this area is the policy in the area of scholarships. We support higher budgetary resources to help schoolchildren, especially in the case of gifted scholarships. Here we would like to mention a dilemma or a trap to which Members can be caught when we get to the table of the amendment, so that, for example, the area of support for scholarships will be increased by a few hundred million and the line of defence will be reduced by a few hundred million. In the parliamentary group, before we vote on these amendments, which were supported by the mother's working body, we would like to hear the unequivocal word of the resignation Minister, Dr Grizold, what this means for the quality preparation of the Slovenian state and the department leading it, regarding the entry into NATO. It is similar in the field of research and technological development, where, despite attempts to minimally raise budgetary resources for science and research in the annual budget, some estimates suggest that those involved in this area are stagnation and that Slovenia is lagging behind developed countries in this area. This is particularly true for the project funding of research groups in public research organisations, which are sometimes insufficient even for researchers. We've received some of these letters in the last few months. This year, the number of new young researchers is expected to decline, with financial assistance from the country of 3000 to 175 students, from 300 - I apologize - to 175 students per year. It's not the right direction. On October 5, 2002, he was in the Slovenian daily, a public appeal: Do we really have too many masters and doctors of science in Slovenia? The letter was signed by academics and extraordinary members of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. The fourth area is a development-oriented economic programme. The condition for the treatment of public finances is, in particular, sufficient economic growth, which will not be achieved without an appropriate government programme. The coalition contract is also its addition, and in fact it deals most with this topic. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support building it together in the government on the criteria that they understand in the developed world as creating strategic objectives that include the building of an economy and a knowledge society and a high degree of economic, technological, entrepreneurial and cultural identity. Budgetary investments that provide for economic growth to date also need to be further geared towards sectors of education, research and development and information communication technology. According to the developed countries of the European Union, they account for 25% of gross social product. For the development of Slovenia, it is essential that people are qualified for development. This is a thought written recently by Dr. Lois Socan. The key sources of modern development are also defined in the OECD guidelines and are based on the multinational organisation of the economy, on the developmental regions, on the development capacity of the political management of society. I conclude with the capital market area. The necessary infrastructure for such development, which is therefore based on the OECD guidelines, is the creation of a primary capital market that will allow meaningful purchases and acquisitions of the most successful Slovenian companies capable of joining the global economy. The current acquisitions of Slovenian companies show that, at government level, these processes did not respond properly. The acquisitions are carried out in cash and do not offer to Slovenian shareholders the exchange of shares of our companies for shares issued by the acquiring company for the purpose of taking over. In this light, acquisitions could become very useful and in the national interest, as Slovenian shareholders would change the ownership of our companies for the ownership of successful multinational companies. We know that Slovenia does not yet have an adequate capital market, because it would make sense to issue shares intended for acquisitions, and in the long term, all the best companies listed in the market quotation can be lost for Slovenia. Business takeovers thus become a threat to Slovenian development, rather than taking advantage of them as a development opportunity through prudent policies. Company takeovers are an important source of foreign direct investment that has recently undermined the so-called "greenfield" investment. However, from the point of view of foreign direct investment, it may be important to cross-border strategic integrations as well as electronic integrations that enable companies to make direct contact with customers of their products and services using modern technologies. I will conclude with the conclusion that the Slovenian People's Party will support both budgetary documents, which we must recognise as following very changing macroeconomic conditions, but in the Slovenian People's Party we warn the government, without these reforms we will not be able to avoid problems in the public finances that we owe to us. However, the crisis of public finances could be exacerbated mainly by the lack of economic growth, which is partly understandable also because of the global economic crisis, but we believe that it can be mitigated by the measures proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Cyril Pucko, Liberal Democracy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia estimates that the government has taken into account the latest forecasts of economic growth not only in Slovenia but also in the world, but also in the countries of the European Union, which are our most important economic partners. On this basis, we believe that the development direction and reality of public finances is a contribution to re-stabilization of investment activities at a relatively high level. In particular, while maintaining relatively high levels of real growth in exports of goods and services, it is realistic to expect the continuation of favourable export-import movements over the next two years and the maintenance of the approximately balanced current part of the balance of payments at the increasing level of coverage of exports. From this point of view, intensive investment is also expected in the following year. Slovenia can build on the export economy and this exports can represent a towing locomotive of our economy. All of this requires, of course, proper coordination of economic policies, pricing policies, government income and fiscal policies and Banka Slovenije monetary and exchange policies to achieve the objectives set. The mission club supports the 2003 budget, which is ready for restrictive assumptions, namely 5.1% of the average annual inflation, which the government has avoided by already placing too high inflation expectations in the budget preparation, and at the same time, with the above-mentioned appropriate combination of all policies, this budget can also be a realistic objective. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports the Government's efforts, in particular the significantly increased volume of resources for science and technology development; budgetary resources for the promotion and support of economic activities are also increasing, in reality, by 7.2% in 2003, and the promotion or enhancement of the competitiveness of the economy by 13.2%). In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we would particularly point out that we are working to further reduce unemployment through the implementation of an active employment policy. The budget for active employment policy is thus increasing realistically by an additional 2.8% in 2003. In particular, it would be pointed out that in the context of healthcare, more budgetary resources are allocated mainly to investment in hospitals where these funds will increase by 35.5% in the proposed 2003 budget changes. Health is certainly one of the fundamental priorities of the 2003 budget, and this is accompanied by appropriate efforts to implement the fundamental reform of the entire health system, which is why we want to ensure, in particular, stable funding, including the use of internal reserves in health care, its modernisation and the best possible service for citizens or patients. In particular, we would like to stress in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club that the legal level of rights is maintained in the area of pension protection. This also provides the 2003 budget with appropriate monitoring of changes in the coordination of pensions with the price growth rate. Budget allocations for local self-government are increasing. In accordance with the adopted motorway programme, road infrastructure continues to be built. Particular attention is paid to the proposed budget in the area of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, where budgetary resources grow by 4% in 2003. Appropriate means shall be provided for the professionalisation of the military and for the preparation of NATO membership. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia is pleased with the increase in funding for education and sport and with proposals following the government's policy in this area. We also welcome all the rationalisations that the government has found both in the expenditure on goods and services and in the material costs of budgetary users and in this way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u33	Mr. Pucko [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u34	I'll be done. In this way we save about 6.3 billion tolars in 2003. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the proposed changes to the 2003 budget, together with amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u35	Thank you. The word has Bogomir the grandson, the text. Young people's party, please, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable members and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly is ahead of one of the key tasks this year by adopting the 2003 budget rebalancing. With regard to the budget, it is a custom or apparently already a practice for the government as a proponent to claim that there can be no better and more suitable budget, and the opposition has doubts about this - and rightly so - because in the last year, the budget rebalancies follow the current lane. We adopted the 2002 budget rebalancing in July, and in the following year we will certainly be correcting the budget for the year 3003, which we are also correcting today. Obviously, the 2003 budget is no exception and economic indicators, which are the basis for the level of revenue, despite the opposition's warnings, have been again over-set. These are usually unrealistically optimistic, which is especially true for this year’s situation when we are at home and in the world in recession. As we presented the initial draft budget, we were able to hear from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that economic growth will not be as high as it was planned in the following year and also in 2004. It is likely to be lower than current forecasts, especially if the country is seriously trying to lower inflation. Obviously, we already have the practice of preparing budgets each year on the basis of the expected expenditure and then the government adjusts the revenues to these expenditure. How else can we explain that each year, at the time of the rebalancing, we find that the economic indicators are not as high as they were forecast at the time of the preparation of the budget. Even if the government does not believe in economic growth as announced last year before the adoption of the budgets, it has demonstrated that it has taken into account a reduction of 0.4% in economic growth in the preparation of the 2003 budget rebalancing, which was foreseen by the International Monetary Fund in its latest forecast. However, these predictions are not convincing either, as they are constantly changing. The global recession, in which our economy has also been located, is still going on, and it is also expected that this forecast will be too high. We believe that it would be realistic to expect around 3% of economic growth, especially if they are keeping government forecasts of the envisaged measures, as I mentioned earlier, to reduce inflation. These will certainly bring, among other things, lower economic growth. The government, as a reason for the reduction of the expected revenues, mainly blames the lower consumption of the population. Of course, the government increased the value added tax rates by one percentage point last year, or 0.5 percentage points at the lower value added tax rate This measure is expected to contribute an additional 2.2 billion to the state treasury in 2003. However, this measure has turned in the opposite direction. How should an increase in taxes, which indirectly certainly has an impact on prices, encourage citizens to increase their consumption? Of course, citizens buy less, and so we go around in a vicious circle. The country which, by reducing taxes, in addition to other measures, should encourage consumption and thus strengthen the economy has caught its own trap as the relative share of the net value added tax revenue does not increase. Moreover, in 2003 we will barely endure the share of the value added tax revenue achieved in 2001. And from year to year, excise revenue is also declining, as the final consumption of excise goods is decreasing. So far, the government has been able to replace revenue reductions by increasing excise rates, which are now at their highest possible level. Thus, in the coming years, we can expect, in particular, a reduction in excise revenue. On the other hand, wages and interest represent an excessive proportion of the budget, as the government is buying social peace by increasing wages in the public sector. The government should follow the objective of lagging behind wages for productivity growth in public administration. In particular, there is caution in the negotiation of collective agreements. The economy, in particular the Chamber of Economics, points out in its views the problem of over-taxation of wages. In terms of the competitiveness of the economy, any increase in wage taxation, which means an increase in labour costs, is unfavourable. The events of the last few months, which have been calling for a more restrictive public financial policy, are because the fact that the revenue that the government is promising is not something to be expected. One of the main problems is certainly inflation, which, despite the government's annual assurances, does not diminish. In November, prices in Slovenia rose by 6.7% according to last November. However, inflation has not increased in the last month mainly due to the decline in global oil prices, but not as a result of the government's efforts to reduce it. During the recession, which is also present in Slovenia, the country should encourage investment. The government boasts a great investment rate, but when we review the structure of these investments, we find that the government devotes a large share of money to investments to build motorways of course good infrastructure in the country is an important indicator of development, but investments in motorways in the future will not have a major direct impact on economic progress. These long-term investments have an impact on economic growth, the competitiveness of Slovenian companies and will attract foreign investors. These, in particular, are investments in knowledge. The high investment rate is important when we talk about investments in the introduction of new technologies, exports and imports, in measures to reduce unemployment and so on. But that can only be achieved with knowledge. It does not matter that every year the government declares how high investment we have in Slovenia, if these are primarily state investments that will not bring economic progress. Last year, the government praised the 2003 budget with high indices in education, social policy and scholarships. Today, however, the rebalancing shows that she was holding a fig in her pocket at the time, as the funds for the construction of student homes are now falling, the regression of student transports, and we are introducing a new university when existing universities are unable to finance all the envisaged study programmes. The study programmes, as I mentioned earlier, are priorities in the Young Slovenia Party. That is why, in the proposal for a budget rebalancing, we tabled amendments to increase funding for the construction of student homes, local community scholarship funds, the transport of disabled students, young researchers and the construction of youth hostels. On the Committee on Finance, our amendments were expected to be rejected, for reason of breaking the concept drafted by the government. What concept are the proposals to increase the items that would bring additional scholarships and additional beds? What is this concept drawn up by the government when universities are considering the gradual introduction of tuition for regular studies? In the Young Slovenia Party, it is recalled that in these areas spending limitation is harmful and unnecessary. Restraints are needed in other areas. These areas remain intact and overblown. The government, for reasons of peace and internal tensions in the coalition, has concluded unfavourable compromises, which disproportionately generate wage growth, consumption not intended for development, but for the privilege of certain stakeholders. Unfortunately, the economic situation is deteriorating, not only because of external factors, but also because of the excessive policy of budgetary responsibility for the needs of the public sector. Not for the needs of activities that bring more added value. In the next two years, the government will have to lower inflation and increase other economic indicators so that we can be serious candidates for entry into such a singing European relationship and, of course, so that we can survive in it. In principle, the country should not spend more than it has. This will not work, even after the most optimistic predictions, for several years. But if we deal with the budget the way we do now, we may never succeed. And the next generation will have an even worse journey to the future. Of course, for all the reasons listed in the draft budget, we will not therefore support the Group of the Young Slovenia Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the individual parts of the proposal for changes to the state budget. The individual parts are three. We will first discuss and decide on the general part of the draft amending budget, then on the specific part of the draft amending budget and then on the development programme plan. So three parts, three separate wholes, I'd say, inside this point. We discuss each and every one of them individually and decide, of course, within the framework of the time announced in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So we are moving on to the general part of the budget changes. So it's the general part. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the general part of the draft amending budget. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the general part of the draft budget. Yes, please, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u38	Mr President, if I have understood correctly that we are moving on to a decision, I have also made a procedural proposal for a half-hour break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. So Dr. Bayuk is demanding a 30-minute recess due to a consultation before the vote. Now I'm thinking, Your Honor, the president announced this morning - can I have your attention, please? - announced that it would be a break at 1:00. That would mean that we should meet now at, say, 12.10.12.40, for twenty minutes, then take an hour off. Please, I'd like to allow myself to continue with the proposal at 13.10. If no one objects to this proposal, then somehow, as chairman, we would decide to continue at 13.10. Who is opposed to this proposal? I don't see any objection. So I'm adjourning the session, and we're moving on at 13.10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u40	Respect, Your Honor, we continue our work. Before deciding on the general part of the budget, the Novi Slovenije parliamentary group wanted a break. The debate was concluded on the general part of the proposal for amending the budget by moving on to a general work decision. Would you like to explain the opinion, the position of the New Slovenia Group? Dr. Brace [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u41	Madam Vice-President, Mr Bayuk will start by explaining them, and then I take the floor if you'll allow me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u42	An explanation of vote will still be possible at this stage because, Dr. Brejc, you have concluded the general debate in the morning work and before deciding, the representative of the New Slovenia Group may explain his vote. Here you go, Dr. Bayuk. You have 5 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm sorry. The documents we have before us for consideration at this meeting of the National Assembly relating to the 2003 and 2004 State Budget and the draft law on the implementation of the budget and the proposal for a law on the sale of state property have been sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. They were sent by the government with a full mandate, and within the time limit, I provide for the law. However, we find that the government that sent these documents to the National Assembly is no longer there. The Prime Minister responsible for these proposals is no longer the President of the Slovenian Government. The government is currently operating with limited powers, with the concept of running affairs alone, and the State budget for a two-year period is certainly not, according to our assessment, an ongoing business. The role of the National Assembly is to address these documents, these key proposals and adopt them, amend them or reject them. Amendments to these proposals through the amendment mechanism are therefore an integral part of the procedure for addressing the state budget. In New Slovenia, we do not agree with an approach that would in essence change only the nature of this procedure and limit it only to acceptance or rejection. We are not prepared to agree with a procedure that actually limits the powers of this national assembly. At the meeting of the home working body, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Helena Kamnar, took the view at each proposed amendment that a government with limited powers could not be defined for these proposals. We therefore note that, at this time, this National Assembly does not have an interlocutor with a mandate to carry out our duties and responsibilities on the basis of our full powers. Since we want to follow established parliamentary practice around the world, we cannot take responsibility when deciding on such important legislation as the two-year state budget. Therefore, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which also grants us this right, I announce, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, an obstruction to all three items of the agenda, namely the draft amendments to the 2003 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the 2004 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the 2003 draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and finally to the proposal for a programme on the sale of state financial and real property for 2003 and 2004. But I'd like to add one more point. We got an opinion from the law enforcement department at this house. It is limited to just some aspects of this, but it has not addressed the real problem, and this is the problem of the decision of this national assembly. That is why we cannot respect this opinion in its entirety, and we do not accept it, and we would also like to say that this is not the same as the position we have taken with regard to the questions sent to the government. The current government is certainly still responsible to this national assembly, not only for what it is doing now, but also for what it has done so far. To align this position with our proposal, which we supported this morning in order to stop the consideration of these points and to postpone them to the second meeting of the National Assembly, was a good opportunity for this National Assembly to limit and adopt its position and address these key points on the basis of its full powers. That way, we have no choice but to have what I have already said obstruction of dealing with these points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Dr. Brace, please. Is there an explanation for the voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u45	Yes, the basis for my application is Rule 65(2) of the Rules of Procedure. In the Social Democratic Party, we note that the Government has sent to the National Assembly a proposal for amendments to the 2003 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, a supplementary proposal for 2004, a draft law on the implementation of the 2003 and 2004 budget and a proposal for the sale of state and financial assets for the years 2003 and 2004. So this is a very important document for this country. The Government has an important role to play in the process of adopting these documents, as it has to be defined by the amendments tabled. In particular, I refer to her role in the harmonisation amendments. The government should also be present when it comes to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u46	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. The speakers have the right to--
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u47	I was talking about arrogance yesterday, weren't I? Here? You see, I was right. Let Mr. Rope do his best. But what's in LDS is arrogant and it's visible at every turn. So the government must be present when it comes to such important issues. The opposition, if not the other, feels the duty to ask and expect the response of qualified interlocutors. We don't have people like that in this house today. Not only because ministers, except right now I see one, if I see one, are not, especially because they do not have a mandate to answer any questions. Members of the Social Democratic Party therefore note that we do not have qualified interlocutors and that there is no one in this house by the government who today would have a mandate to amend such important documents as should be accepted today. Yesterday, we proposed how the matter could be resolved in an elegant manner, but apparently neither the new mandate-holder at the beginning of his mandate career did not seem worth considering our proposals, but representatives of the ruling coalition behaved in any way as you can see them acting. It is said that no matter what is politically appropriate, no matter what is normal for a democratic European Council, it is important what the ruling coalition thinks. We will not participate in such a process because we think it is offensive to the Slovenian Parliament, and we do not intend to tolerate these insults, so, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65, I declare obstruction at all four points, namely, in the draft amending the 2003 budget, supplemented by the 2004 proposal, the 2003 and 2004 budget law and the proposal for the sale of state financial and real property for the years 2003 and 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think myself and the Slovenian National Party - colleagues please only for this procedural proposal - the Slovenian National Party, I personally and my colleagues estimate that the concerns are reasonable and well-founded. However, I would suggest that, of course, it would be acceptable for this moment to be convened by the Colleges of the National Assembly and that there are also respected colleagues who have announced obstruction, at least once again, trying or trying to discuss the process themselves. Indeed, there is no actual adoption of budgets for two years, no law on enforcement and, of course, the sale of state property to leave just like that. I think that there is so much sense in all of us that a discussion at the College of the National Assembly may allow a step forward. Thank you very much. However, if, of course, our proposal, my procedural proposal or proposal by the Slovenian National Party is not accepted, we will also be forced to participate in the agreement as well as in the opposition. So, otherwise, we're predicting obstruction, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. In 15 minutes, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, at 13.35 a.m., we will move on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Two parliamentary groups, Nova Slovenija and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, and the Slovenian National Party, announced obstruction at all remaining items of the agenda. I ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups to join the College of the President of the National Assembly in Room 217. I hope we can move on in 15 minutes. There's a college in room 217, talking to the president of the National Assembly. We're expected to resume work in 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-12-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u51	I invite you to the Hall of the National Assembly, where I will introduce you to the decision after consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. I also ask my colleagues from the opposition parties to come to the National Assembly. Please kindly ask colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, including our colleagues from the two opposition groups, to come to the Chamber because I would like to inform the National Assembly of the decision we have taken in consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention for a moment? First of all, I would like to express my dissatisfaction at the fact that there were no more ministers and ministers participating in this agenda item in the resignation which had the power to participate in today's debate. It's about the budget. For important questions. And I think that a warning from some of our colleagues that the National Assembly deserves their presence was justified. That's the first thing. Second thing. We have reached an agreement on the continuation of the work of the National Assembly in this and next week, which will allow us to carry out all the items of the agenda, with the agreement of all the parliamentary groups. Let me draw your attention to the key issues. Today we will conclude the meeting by deciding, before that, to move unfinished agenda items to one of the following meetings. Hearings for candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers, presentations, will be held in the National Assembly on Monday. On Tuesday at 4 p.m., the State Assembly will meet on, just a moment On Monday and Tuesday, the presentations of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers will be held. [[...]] On Tuesday at 4 p.m., the regular December meeting, which will be suspended on Tuesday evening, resumed on Wednesday and also closed on Wednesday evening. It's supposed to be late tonight. On Thursday, we will have an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to decide on the government. Thursday afternoon, we will start a meeting where we will decide on the budget and end it on Friday afternoon. This is a proposal that will allow us to carry out the appointment of the government and the budget before the end of this year. A required agenda, but a way to enable the government to then participate fully in the decision-making process on such an important issue as a large billion hard budget. I will now put to the vote the proposal that we move the agenda items that are unfinished to one of the next meetings. Do the parliamentary groups want a word? I will put this proposal to the vote. Please let us vote on it. There's 54 of us in the hall, 46 of us in favor, 4 against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] Colleagues and colleagues, we have therefore decided to move these points to one of the next meetings. May I say again with your attention, because I see some watching me run the agenda of our duties next week. On Monday and Tuesday, a presentation of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers. Tuesday afternoon at 4 p.m., a regular December session to be concluded on Wednesday evening. On Thursday, we will meet at an extraordinary meeting to address the appointment of the government. When we are finished with the appointment of the government this afternoon, we will continue or attend a meeting to continue the adoption of the budget, and this point and all these points may be concluded late, but certainly on Friday evening. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly and thank you.
