ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u1	I suggest we proceed with the 16th extraordinary session. Insert the voting cards into the voting devices. I'll figure out the consonants. Since I'm afraid there aren't enough colleagues in the hall right now, please, I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. [[...]] Please press the "quorum" button. I'll wait a few more minutes, and then I'll figure it out for the third time, and we'll be late for that without a need for fifteen minutes. So once again, I ask that my colleagues and colleagues come to the hall, it's eleven minutes past ten. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! First, I ask or demand peace in the hall. Please take your seats and don't make conversation to make normal work impossible. Before I rediscover my presence in the Chamber, I would like to inform you about which of our colleagues and colleagues today will not participate in the work of the National Assembly. These are: colleague Kontič, colleague Simšičeva, colleague Bevk, Dr Bernik, Ašič, Pukšič, Kavtičnik, Barovic, colleague Aurelio Juri will be absent in the morning part of the meeting, colleague Fabjan, Pohorec, Beumann and Germič. Please, now, let us rediscover the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded; 55 Members and Members are present. I also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue the meeting today, which I welcome very much. At today's session, at the following 16th extraordinary meeting, we will continue with yesterday's suspension of the second reading of the bill on the public sector's wage system, by presenting the opinions of the groups of Members. I will give the representatives of the parliamentary groups the floor in the following order: colleague Potrč, colleague Kebrich, colleague Zupanov, colleague of Vnučec and colleague Podobnik, on behalf of my parliamentary groups. First, my friend. Just a minute. [[...]] Oh, you're applying for a word. Please, Comrade Potrč, on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Finally, a colleague of Peca, on behalf of the SNS Group of Members, applied for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the United List of Social Democrats, we are not satisfied with the procedure under which this law is adopted, not for formal reasons, but because we believe that the regulation of wages is due to the experience with a system that has been poor for ten years, we have such a question that it would be useful and good if we could achieve better cooperation between the government and trade unions, including within unions, and if we could also achieve a few more options for assessing individual proposals between Members and Members. The process so far has not fully provided us with this. We want the continuation to give as much basis and opportunity as possible for such work, because we believe that, otherwise, unnecessary dissatisfaction will be too much, that we will be uncertain about the solutions that we will take, and that maybe the revisions of the accepted system will need more than they should normally be, but some will be necessary in any case, because in such a complex system it is not possible to expect that we will be able to hit on every detail as soon as we adopt the law. On this point, I would like to say the following. I do not agree with the Group that such a situation is the sole responsibility of the Government, especially not just the current government. Because serious marriage work began in the autumn of the previous year. Since then, a great deal of effort has been made to ensure that more than 8,000 jobs and approx. pay reviews have been prepared. 150,000 employees. However, we are probably not the only ones in the UK Group who claim that so far, many of these salaries have not been transparent, that we have not had a review of the fact that, above all, the basic salaries and allowances have been very different. This work is very important. It was supposed to be possible to work on the law at all. From that time on, the government, already in January, passed the First Treatment Act on January 18th, and we now have a good three months in our work. Before that, we know that ten years of such or other findings have been followed by an untransparent system and that we have already had predictions in the previous term that the government will come with a new law and that it has failed. That's the first thing I want to find out. Secondly, I would like to point out that, according to our assessment, trade unions as social partners have also had a number of actions which, irrespective of the reasons that are being sought today, are justified or not, constitute an aggravation of each other's debate. On the one hand, we all know that the objective time frame for the adoption of this law is conditioned by the annex to the collective agreement on the Education and Education Union, which expires on 30 April with certain obligations, signed about one year before and published in the Official Journal. And that at this point, it was just one of the things that hung on whether or not we would adopt the law within that time frame. Although I personally and in the Group of Members of the United Nations consider it necessary to respect the commitments made by the Government. However, we do not believe that the payment system can be built on partial arrangements. Because if we build it on partial arrangements with each union individually, without coordination, then the result will be what we now criticise. That we have so many and so many separate procedures and agreements that each of us can bring something just. Only when he settles justice for one group will injustice or dissatisfaction in another group manifest itself. This also applies to unions of education and education. And if we were willing to work together with the government, it also applies to the health union, because problems have been solved in some other way, then it would be much easier to form these relationships. But as long as everyone's on their own, for so long, I'm afraid the government is also in trouble because of the unwillingness of the joint work. And secondly, what I would like to say about trade unions, I reiterate, irrespective of the reasons, but a three-week break in the readiness of agreements within the framework of the social partners may have been necessary, due to some pressure on the unions, but it has made the possibility of a substantive discussion difficult. But we all know that she returned, as she always did after the negotiations returned to that point where she was interrupted, only the time of those three weeks was about lost. And third, what I'd like to say about the procedure, at least mine, is our assessment. We have been working as intensive as possible in the National Assembly on a regular basis in this direction. Maybe too much. However, I believe that at some stage, when we decided to present our opinions publicly, this was not necessarily just a decision that contributed to the quality of our work. While it was good that we heard in one place the positions presented, especially the unions and some professions, but the amendments prepared for the second reading we all know that this did not benefit us much. But in 10, 14 days, even with regard to the decisions of the National Assembly, the pace of our work has made it difficult for us to now find ourselves in a situation in which we really have to work not only uncoordinated but also extremely quickly. I expect, or in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, that the willingness to decide until the third hearing between the government and the unions will be greater. We also expect to put together such a program that we will stick to at least this next week, 14 days, a month as agreed. Because every time a postponement or a change in the decision to which the meeting is going, the meeting is not going to be held, and shortening the deadlines is not helpful. I, on behalf of the United Nations Group of Members of the College, took the initiative to hold an extraordinary meeting on Friday, not yesterday. Whether it's right or wrong, I won't argue. But I know why I stood up for it. Because for yesterday and for today, coordination has been agreed with the unions, which has now been missing. And two days to coordinate went by, I'd say, past. They will have to be compensated from the second to the third reading, so it would be good for the programme to be adopted at least now that we have completed the second reading. I think it is also right to say by the Government that, because the law provides for the implementation of 1.1.2004, prepared after the decisions taken, I would say that it will be worth considering when it sees the practical sequences in implementation, whether there is any need to be an update and complement. And now for the content. Two questions. I agree that we are taking decisions today in such a way that we also procedurally open up options for amendments to the third reading. Whether this materially helps or not will be seen in the third reading. But we have to open up these options. Secondly, I do not think it would be good if we did not make substantive decisions today on material relations. I am afraid that we have made some decisions on the working body yesterday that show that we have checked them because I am not sure if they are coherent and reasonable enough, and I expect that if I do not require that when we come to these amendments, from the government in this respect a clear material assessment, a clear assessment of the relationship between the other occupational groups, because we made a lot of changes yesterday. And that's not so very insignificant that they probably have an effect on the mass of funds. However, they also have an impact on mutual relations, which, apart from the opinion of individual Members and Members' groups, I am not sure whether they are also coordinated and agreed with the social partners. Some of the letters we received from trade unions in yesterday and today show that they are not coordinated rather than coordinated. I guess everyone doesn't even know what we decided yesterday on the working body as a proposal for amendments, and we can expect a reaction to that later if we accept it. So I suggest we really take this extremely seriously. However, I would explicitly support the three things proposed by the government and the committee. First, in the first and second tables, the three lower classes should be reduced or abolished and the lowest wage increased. And that, as the Committee has suggested, on the proposal of liberal democracy and also ours to abolish the three highest classes. I would have ranged, according to government assurances, from gross 1:13 already reduced to 1:11 and I don't know how much, but somewhere between 11 and 12; probably the government already has calculations and could have told us that. Last but not least, I propose that the government undertakes to prepare a new amendment, which in the coming period - the committee will propose four years on our proposal - to further reduce the ranges to 1:10, which would be comparable to the European average and to most countries in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, my colleague, Mr Kebric, will present his views; after him, she is a colleague of Zupanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General with co-workers! In our Group of Members, we consider this issue to be the following. First time. It has been almost eight years since the debate began that this system needs to be regulated globally, and today the problem is that we are solving the matter, as we say at home, on the door to the nose. However, we believe in the Group of Members, better today than tomorrow, because we are already in great delay. The problems in the area of wages are that those who have experience from the past know that there is no system that will fully satisfy everything and will still be not only individuals but also groups with certain arrangements who are dissatisfied or who will oppose them in one way or another and also express their opposition. We believe that the basic problem is the relationship. If a relationship is established and we, as the legislative body in the law, define ourselves as suitable for our economic development, our gross social product per capita, of course we cannot simply decide on such relations as are applicable in individual countries, not only in Europe but also in the world. As another thing is that, according to our belief, our parliamentary groups, we have a matter to settle in one law, globally. For all partial solutions, because we see in the transitional provisions how many laws or special regulations or sub-laws we still have today valid ones that defile and deface the whole picture. It should be known that the comparability of individual professions on the basis of education alone can only be one of the criteria but cannot be the only one that can be saved. For education is one, a job requiring adequate education is another, but the circumstances and conditions of work are, of course, third. These working conditions and defined to say, the advantages or disadvantages on the other hand also form a profile of this job. And they're also, to say under the nomad, invited for a particular profession. A young person is focusing on what he thinks is a talent or a certain area of work, and he will sooner or later realize what advantages this job will give him if he takes over, and also what bad qualities or other types he will have to rent. The case is clear. The one who has decided will give a simple example for a railwayman or a soldier or a policeman, knows that he will have to work on a tour, knows that certain holidays will have to be at work, while other professions have the advantage of enjoying that holiday or that holiday. However, certain circumstances are comparable, as we hear and believe, to the fact that partial solutions such as they have now been in force, that certain segments of professions or sectors have had the opportunity, quite frankly, to blackmail, not only certain complaints or demands, but simply to press, not only on public opinion, but also on those who should decide on their salaries. And not only that, but also about working conditions and working conditions. When faced with certain wage comparisons, at least what is published in the public, through the media, it is always necessary to examine the matter and to take a deeper look at which information is given, for what purpose and whether this information is truly objective. First, we need to unite, and that is, in this proposal, in the tables at least to some extent transparent and it is evident that the first problem in the public is to talk once about gross salaries, secondly, because it suits someone better about net salaries, thirdly, it is about basic wages, no additions are mentioned. In addition, sometimes it seems very useful to someone, but it also states that, as we call it, a permanent supplement to the past work. If we put it all together then for an objective assessment on the common denominator, of course, the picture is quite different, especially under certain circumstances, whether someone in their profession has a competitive clause or not. And I'm going to show you with a simple case. It is true, as we say, that the incompatibilities of the function also affect the height of the salary. Either he's a farmer and he has a farm, and no one can stop him. Or someone who doesn't mind me, an artist, still has the ability to create art. And we all welcome this, thank God that we have them, who are willing to contribute differently to our culture and everything else in addition to their regular work. So we won't be stalling too long. In the Group of Members, we believe that it is right that we have taken the matter very seriously, that it has come to the agenda of this extraordinary meeting and that we will gain some more time for further clarification, as we face various comments every day. We all receive letters to say what is a modern term, to lobby, to prove and, on the other hand, to recommend what to do. I conclude that in our Group we will support all those amendments that we believe will improve the basic text. We are aware, however, that it is essential that this new system, as we are about to receive on 1 January 2004, really emerge, because this system and payment under this system will, of course, depend again on us Members of the National Assembly when we adopt the 2004 budget. It would be impossible to implement any other system previously that would require significantly more resources if, as we know, they are not in the 2003 budget. This is said to be a very difficult and responsible task ahead of us when we coordinate the 2004 budget, which will have to take into account all the legal provisions with its or its consequences on budget consumers, into the heading of their salaries. In our desire to be expedient, we will define each amendment and repeat, we will take into account those correct, constructive objections, comments, proposals that will be put forward by such unions, so certain other groups that are organised, not only in trade unions, but also otherwise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. I give my word to my colleague Zupanov. It will present the views of the New Slovenia Group. She'll be given the word of a colleague of grandkids. First, a colleague of Zupanov's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. President, distinguished Minister, representatives of the government! A respected choir! With regard to the proposal for a law on the public sector wage system, our parliamentary group notes that the government is working extremely hard to get the law adopted as soon as possible. However, coordination with the social partners is far from over. It is, however, a question of where the government can go and of which borders it can give in to public sector unions. There are already voices from the economy that will not allow wages to fall behind for inflation. Employers want to know what the financial consequences of this law will be, but they do not get an answer. The representatives of economic unions are confident that the law will increase the budget's obligation to do so. The stranger is big, the rush is huge. April 30th approaches with great strides. The date by which the law on the public sector wage system was to be adopted, as the government had promised a year ago, or by 15 May it would have to sign an annex to the collective agreement on the basis of which in August there would be an increase in the allowances for employees in education and education, which means an average of about 30,000 gross tolls per teacher. The applicant tried to take into account the 34 positions of the National Assembly in the first reading and, among other things, raised the lowest basic salary, reduced the salary ranges and equations in the three segments at the top of the salary scale. The amendments shall be made as from the current lane and until the last moment, so that the definitions of the parent committee up to the type of new supplements shall take place immediately before or even at the time of the extraordinary meeting of the national assembly. The Home Committee withdraws the amendments and adopts new ones, and we have 49 on the table signed by the Internal Policy Committee. The situation is exceptional and Members are under pressure from the government, which is forcing us to have a second reading of the law that has not yet been harmonised. Disagreement is still great, nothing less than in March of the month. One of the main inconsistencies is the additions which are clear that the wage imbalances are the most at fault and have been most used for corrections. Then progress. Trade unions are not inclined to limit this, but the government argues that the progress limit is necessary for a regulated and manageable pay system and that progress, depending on work performance, must replace automatic progress. Of course, the government's opposition to defining orientation jobs by law. Maybe they just started negotiating, which is far too little for any decision in the National Assembly. Although the public treatment of the law has brought many comments and proposals, there are few concrete solutions, in particular how to address the issues on the opposite sides of the government and the coordination of NGOs, and in fact, in recent times, each trade union alone. During this time, the Union's coordination even interrupted the negotiations, which just continued a good week ago. This urgency, which forces all participants to make swift decisions, is certainly not good, although it is still a high target. In doing so, even the Secretariat of Law is no longer in a position to write opinions and notes that all matters are not completed and are not harmonised. There is still too much ignorance and the need for a whole range of sub-laws, regulations and collective agreements. So important a law and so necessary to regulate salaries in the public sector, we believe that it should be ripe. That is why such a way of working and adopting is not appropriate for Parliament. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that this is precisely why the law, which is supposed to be systematic and regulate the salaries of 152 thousand employees in the public sector, is going to be weak, inconsistent and to a lot of people, and that is why we do not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague Zupanov. My colleague Vnučec, you have the floor to present the views of the Parliamentary Group of Youth Parties; you will be given the word of colleague Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary and the other representatives of the government! The public service was respected and respected in the past, wages were not high, employment was quite finished and paid on a regular basis. In the economic sector, this can only be a godly desire. However, by various forms of blackmail, public service, of course, loses its reputation. Therefore, in the Youth Party, we believe that we need the widest possible consensus and more time to adopt this law. The ten-year wrong policy and the failure of certain groups are facts that cannot be remedied immediately. Therefore, it is necessary to negotiate and talk with trade unions and, therefore, it is also a matter of urgency that we already have a second-reading law, even though trade unions demand that it return to the first. However, it is necessary to set a limit from which there is no longer room for blackmail and to adopt a law in a long time. However, it is distasteful that some now openly admit that they are in a hurry to avoid paying off some of the promised supplements. The route chosen by the Government, however, is legal but totally inappropriate to the beneficiaries of these supplements. And another question arises. Will the government be equally decisive with regard to the demands of the economic sector, whose unions demand to repair salaries for only a few thousand dollars, but fail to do so? We're also interested in the total amount of wages. Is there any calculation of what the amount of wages would be if the law entered into force today? This increases or decreases, as it is still not clear from the various information and interpretations. The economy is, however, too much to forget at this burning debate, especially the fact that the public sector has to share fate with the economy. And in general, what is the public sector, even today, when it is supposed to be done through second reading, is not clear. And here we find a legitimate objection to RTV employees. Do they also belong to the public sector? For the Young Slovenia Party, however, it seems most important to us that those who work well and hard get an appropriate salary, regardless of whether they work in the economy or in the economy. Above all, the young people themselves do not detract from the system, which is the practice of today. Young people need to be stimulated by the possibility of progress, in accordance with their working habits and knowledge, of course. For, according to the proposal, when every three years progress is envisaged, this is inflexible and disstimulating, especially at the beginning of the career. Above all, however, it is important that the State spends only as much on wages as it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. I invite my colleague Podobnik to present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. He's going to be followed by a colleague of mine. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear government officials! When we are in the Slovenian People's Party Group before a difficult decision, and it is today, then let us do something that is normally done by every party in the coalition. Let's go see what the coalition contract says. And in the area of wages, it says: To pursue an effective wage policy based on the social partnership so that wage growth is lagging behind in productivity growth. However, the wage system provision in the public sector is very clear. The coalition will do everything in its power to prepare and implement the new, single wage system of the public sector as soon as possible. This will cover all employees in all state bodies, local authorities and all public institutions and parastatal institutions, including Members, Judges and other officials. The government will draw up a law that will ensure the uniformity of the pay system and allow collective bargaining in the public sector as well. Here, however, some professional questions are raised. The government's coalition partners are committed to this dynamic in the drafting of legislation so that the introduction of the new payroll system will be coordinated in time with the implementation of the reorganisation of the state administration. This provision is also partly related to the Government's proposal or request for extermination to include the adoption of certain other laws relating to the state administration, and in particular the law on civil servants. The Coalition undertakes to verify in 2001 the existing system of setting meetings, refunds and other benefits related to the performance of functions in supervisory councils and similar bodies in the public sector. That was done. The Coalition also commits itself not to take partial solutions for particular areas or occupations that would raise wages only for certain groups until the adoption of the single public sector wage system. This is where the government slipped. At the same time, it undertakes to implement immediately a solution whereby coordination of the basis for the calculation of the salaries of Members and all officials whose salaries are linked to the same basis will be postponed for a period until a new law is drawn up that will regulate the public sector's salary system in a uniform manner. Maybe the public doesn't know enough that this is fully realized. That's not something you talk about in public. Coordination of the basis for the calculation of the salaries of Members and all officials whose salaries are linked to the same basis is postponed. The consideration of the draft law in the second reading is, in a way, interesting or unusual because, by this treatment, the National Assembly entered as a legislator, of course not as a member, but as a political body, into an instrument of social bargaining. We entered the moment we pressed the emergency session key. We will therefore make a very responsible decision on individual solutions within the Group of Members. I would also like to say that, at the first reading of this Act, all the parliamentary groups supported the proposal of this Act, that 46 out of 49 voted in favour and that the Government, in fact, followed largely, except for one decision itself, the decisions and recommendations of the National Assembly in the first reading. Therefore, from this professional point of view, there is no reason to oppose the proposal of the law in the second reading. It can only be a procedural, conceptual aspect, that is, by adopting the law in the second reading, it enters into a sensitive relationship between employers, employees and governments. Again, it must be said that we are in second reading. In his performance yesterday, the Minister said it was somewhat unclear that he expected it to be adopted by the end of the summer, perhaps it was miswritten in the transcript that this law would be adopted. This is said to be a second-reading national assembly today. The current Rules of Procedure fully allow, after the adoption of the law in the second reading, the maximum possible establishment of trust between the government and the unions so that they can negotiate further and coordinated solutions can come with the amendments to the third reading. Why do we say that? Also because, in our view, all the key articles of this law will be amended and the Rules of Procedure will open the way for agreed solutions to be remedied by the third reading. Here, however, we would like to highlight the concerns shared by employees in the private sector. They and all of us are concerned about the so-called unscrupulous inflation. First, the question is how inflation and phenomenon affect negotiators at all levels, especially trade unions. When inflation is in the country, you are always more aggressive in raising wages, and this is one of the key macroeconomic issues and problems facing the country. At the same time, we are wondering whether some of the solutions proposed in the second reading will not be such as to establish the Dominion principle, the expectations will increase in real terms and the pay system will also become a generator of further inflation. We support the thinking of representatives of the economy and of trade unions in the economy that the government should, despite being very burdened by wage issues in the public sector, provide the public with a model of wages in the economy as soon as possible. Some professional issues, such as range issues, performance allowances, the question of the transitional period and also the question of what is paid, whether right or not - the representative of the Faculty of Law has made it clear on the working body that in a conceptual sense there is a right to pay. So, if it's justice, then he has a place in the marriage. The Secretariat points out, however, that due to the wide scope of the problem covered by this law, there is an open professional, perhaps also a constitutional question as to whether wages can be determined by means of a sub-law, i.e. a decree. We will certainly have to resolve this dilemma by the third reading. The issue of range and decline is being raised. In fact, this is also a political issue and we hope, as my colleague Potrč said earlier, that we will find our own way if, in the second reading, we will eventually adopt solutions that will not be fully conceived - they cannot be, even because of the time pressure, and here the opposition colleagues have the right - that in a fairly peaceful atmosphere until the third reading we will adopt solutions that will be fully conceived and will ultimately resolve the issues governed by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. I give the floor to my colleague, Mr Pečet, who will present the position of the National Party's Group of Members and the last of them among the representatives of the Group of Members, Comrade Vukko, and then I will give the floor to Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Minister Bohinc's assessment is that the law is built on the social partnership, that coordination takes place. And here we see the fundamental dilemma surrounding the adoption or non-admission of the law - coordination is taking place. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the law at this stage should achieve that coordination has already been carried out. According to our belief, the previous phase, namely in the stages that have taken place so far within the framework of the National Assembly and within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, shows a large amount of incompetence of individual elements of the Slovenian Government within their negotiating capabilities. Negotiating skills with those who will be recipients of this law. So, to whom this law is written, to whom it is addressed. We believe that within the framework of the law itself, as before us today, as in the Rapporteur, a number of crucial issues have been raised. So powerful critical questions that we do not hope to assume this responsibility in our client. And in this case, I blindly believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will, on the one hand, harmonise the underlying issue. Because similar laws, where social partners or other elements needed for some kind of consensus, were too discontented. But I'm only going to raise two of the critical issues. I believe that several of these issues will later be raised in the debate, or points where disagreement takes place, on the one hand between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a trainee, on the other hand between Parliament and that body which will adopt this law and on the third hand between the social partners. The first is the salary range. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is, of course, proposing a higher salary range or proposing a higher salary range than the union advocates and, as in this case, we are defending it within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. The salary range is one of those elements that significantly interferes with the existence and spread of customerism in our country. It makes absolutely no sense for us to legislate social layers into the law itself. And according to our belief, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia works exclusively and only this. The laws of the ranges that we believe are too high. It seems to us that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in this case or under this law, would agree to range 1 to 10, as was the last position of the social partners, according to our conduct. And, of course, given that wages are an essential element of the macroeconomic category, I think it is completely flawed or it seems to us to be a completely flawed approach to the annual harmonisation of wages. The time offered by the law to the social partners in a conversation with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the subsequent disqualification or destruction of the role of trade unions and the transfer of the Government's wishes and aspirations to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which today or in this mandate in essence expresses the Government's will, it seems to us that all those living from this law are being played. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, in our opinion, in this case wanted and, in all likelihood, will unfortunately achieve that negotiations with trade unions in the framework of coordination, annual wage coordination will not take place, the decision will be transferred to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly will always vote on what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia imposes on it. In our opinion, it's a very wrong and sad way. The talk is that discussions between law-makers, advocates of the law and those who, from law, will, say, actually live, on the one hand, the employees, on the other hand, those represented by the social partners, say that all of this will be coordinated until the third reading. Given that it has not been coordinated until the second hearing, given that there are some open issues, it seems to us at this time the best law to reject or not support it, to give it time to develop it, so that the law will be harmonised between all the elements that appear and depend on this law in our society and thus achieve a firm, stable law that will allow the remaining macroeconomic elements not to show any more negative under the influence of wages than they are in the Republic of Slovenia at this time. The impact of the bill itself is, according to our assessment, affecting all social and social categories, which is why this law is still needed or similar law would still be needed, the existing law or the existing bill does not, because it does not balance between these social and social standards that will survive in our country through this law. A certain degree of non-reality or underestimation of the national assembly, at least of the members of the national assembly, also seems to us to be an approach to the preparation and the written weaponisation of individual Members. In our opinion, precisely because wages are a fundamental instrument in economic policy, all Members should obtain a financial picture or picture by the Ministry of Finance, the impact of the categories, the impact of the new salary ranges on all other macroeconomic instruments. It would also make sense, or according to our assessment, to the wise Member within their right, whether it is a decision on the admissibility of the law itself or not, to obtain a large number of different opinions, macroeconomic institutes or economic institutes dealing with the effects of individual aggregates on those instruments that then have a consequential or chain reaction to others, from coefficients to other instruments that shape life and standards in our country. According to our assessment, the adoption of such a law, which is not harmonised, would lead to dissatisfaction by the law which is complete and which, according to our assessment, leads to the acceleration of the chain reaction in the disagreements of the social partners, in other words, to greater sentences and dissatisfaction. So the adoption of such a law would lead us to a situation where a full balance on the labour market would take place. On the one hand, between labour supply and labour demand. At the final stage in the Slovenian National Party, we are aware that this demand is substantially reduced by the amount of the prize or pay for the work done. We will not, of course, support the bill in the Slovenian National Party. According to our assessment, the law in the first reading was adopted exclusively and only because we are all or, I will say for sure, within the framework of the Group of Members, everyone believes that the negotiations will be held, held, successfully until the second reading. However, since this is not the case and because the system of wages, the issue of wages is too important and for public consumption and inflation, from the monetary mass M1, M2 to the elasticity of the supply and demand for work, we do not hope to adopt this law as a responsible political party, on offer and on the employment system itself. I place my trust in everyone to reconsider the possibility of the adoption of the law itself. We will not accept it in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u13	Thanks, buddy. Now I give my word to my colleague Wolf. He will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. It is the last of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. I say this because then, colleagues and colleagues, we will go to the examination and decision-making of individual articles. That's why I'm asking everyone to come back to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u14	Dear President! Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The Public Sector Wages Act is undoubtedly of great importance to this country. The current law or the current legal and legal order of this area is no longer in line with our assessment. I can tell you that we have over 40 regulations in the area where wages are regulated. This has in the past caused the public financial inefficiencies of this system and lack of transparency. If I illustrate it on one case. In order to ensure the salary of the President of the Court of Auditors, we need to know three laws, one law of law and one internal act of the National Assembly. So we need to know all this to get to the calculation of the salary of one civil servant in the public sector. Under the law on the Court of Auditors, he has a salary as President of the Constitutional Court, under the Constitutional Court Act as President of the National Assembly, so we have two laws. The third law is the Law on Members, which determines the amount of the Member's salary, and then we have a decision of the National Assembly which speaks of functional allowances. It is high time that we have before us a proposal for a law that regulates, in terms of the manner in which wages are determined and the ratio of wages in the public sector. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we welcome all the Government's efforts to prepare a large number of changes for the second reading of the bill, in particular as a result of the coordination of the position of representative unions, and we also support the consideration of the proposaler after the discussion at first reading. Thus, the doors for further negotiations with the unions and for finding new solutions are still open. The Group of Liberal Democracy will support key provisions or solutions in the law. Why? In the past, it has already been clear to the proposer that the law does not provide for wages or trade unions that some wanted to clearly define wage classes in the new law in such a way as to clearly show the individual number for a particular profession. This determines how wages are arranged according to the current system. Of course, such a system is too opaque and rigid. It is clear that, of course, social relations as well as wages are changing and, of course, these situations need to be adapted. However, the current law did not allow this to happen, and systems of additives have been introduced in the past. So now we have seven copies that regulate individual supplements on individual salaries. Of course, the determination of wages by law according to our assessment in the way it has been regulated in the past will not solve the problem. Transparency and comparability mechanisms are different. Above all, we believe that it is very important for the public to pay. It is on this basis that we will reach a system that will be more flexible and will not seek out-of-system solutions, as has been the case in the past with the introduction of various supplements. The public of wages is therefore the one that, according to our assessment, will make it possible to be transparent and comparable. We support the Public Sector Wages Act mainly because it contains the following solutions. First of all, the law abolishes two bases for payroll. According to the current system, we know the parliamentary basis applicable to Members, Ministers, Judges and the basis laid down for other employees in the public sector. We also support the law because it eliminates the coefficients and determines for all the wage in the amount determined as the value of the wage class in which the job, title or function will be classified. We also support the bill because the law repeals the already mentioned large number of supplements that have now been laid down by laws, regulations under the law, as well as collective agreements. In particular, we support the law because the law provides for a system of salaries for all employees in the public sector, which means that we are thus establishing a single basic starting point, as it will be possible to classify jobs and functions only in these three ways: by decree of the National Assembly, for officials by regulation of the Government and by collective agreement. According to our assessment, the new system will eliminate the present fragmentation, including in the case of officials, where salaries have been set so that a certain law refers to another, and this to the law on Members. This means, of course, a reduction in the rules governing wages. The LDS Group will support those amendments to the Committee that go towards regulating relations and reducing wage differences. That's why we're going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. In the second reading of this proposal, all parliamentary groups have drawn together and have presented their views. We will now proceed to the examination and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. Once again, I call on all colleagues and colleagues who are in the foreground to come to the hall. First of all, I propose a procedural proposal that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. I would like to point out that the proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. I am putting this motion to the vote. Let's vote! Let us vote on the procedural proposal. 52 present. 40 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I understand he's been accepted. We are now moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. I will lead the debate and decision-making on the basis of the review you have received today. We will go from article to article, we will vote first on the amendments and then on the whole article. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1 and Article 1 in full. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1. If anyone objects to the speed of the decision-making process, give me an immediate warning, I'll take that into account. Otherwise, I'd like to ask your attention. One more time. I hope you've all got a checkup in front of you. We decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1 of the bill. Let's vote! I ask for peace and attention in the hall. 55 present. 40 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on Article 1 as a whole. 51 present. 39 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I take it we've accepted Article 1. We also have an amendment to Article 2. Anybody want a word about him? I guess not. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 2! Please. 52 present. 38 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I note that we have accepted the amendment and that we can vote on the text of Article 2 in full. Let's vote! We're voting. 54 present, 41 for, one against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've accepted Article 2. We are moving to page 2 of the review to Article 3. The Internal Policy Committee is proposing an amendment, and the government supports it. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 3. 55 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the text of Article 3 in its entirety. The text has been put to the vote. 41 out of 52 voted in favour, no one objected. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] We have tabled an amendment to Article 5 of the Committee, which the Government supports. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 5. Please. 55 in attendance, 39 in, 6 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the text of Article 5 in its entirety. A few of them have lost their focus. I will once again put forward the proposal to vote on the text of Article 5 in full. We are in the midst of a vote on Article 5 as a whole. I don't understand if there's a problem or if there's just no focus. I'm adjourning the session in ten minutes. We'll resume at 11.28 p.m. I don't think we need that. I still think that it was an unarmed thing, but more than twice politely I cannot warn myself because we are all people and are all equally responsible, so that more than that I cannot afford to allow myself. Please. We'll resume at 11.28 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u16	I would like to invite my colleagues and colleagues to the hall. In a minute, I will determine the presence by the third time we are voting. Please. Please take your seats. Ten-minute vacation's over. Colleagues and colleagues, ten-minute break is over. Thirdly, I will put to the vote the text of Article 5 as a whole - the third time, so I would like to draw attention because I believe that there were no other reasons for indiscretion before. We vote on the text of Article 5 in its entirety. Of the 61 present, 44 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the text has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 6 where we have an amendment to the Internal Policy Committee tabled. Just a minute. [[It's a mutual conversation.]] The Secretary-General informs me that this moment we have received another amendment tabled, this is the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. You do not have this amendment in your review, nor on the tables, so I will read it - I will put it to the vote under order number 2 - it reads: "There is a new first paragraph added in Article 6 which reads [[Quote]] : 'Collective voluntary supplementary pension insurance for public sector employees shall be laid down in a public sector collective contract.'; the present first paragraph becomes the second paragraph." Both the amendments tabled, the Internal Policy Committee and the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group shall be put under consideration. Anybody want a word? I find that no one and that we can vote. We first vote on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. Excuse me? New Slovenia? Excuse me! New Slovenia, I apologize, the amendment of New Slovenia. This is an amendment from the New Slovenia Group. I'm sorry. Would you like a word, Comrade Lavrinc?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u17	Before deciding, I would first ask the proposer to explain what he wanted and, of course, the government's opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u18	Good. Does anyone from the New Slovenia Group want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u19	The Government shall support the proposal of the Internal Policy Committee by Article 6.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u20	Okay. Anyone else want a word? [[Yes, you do.]] Please. My friend Sok. I ask for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u21	I'd like to ask the President, I wasn't paying attention. Is this an amendment to Article 7?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u22	Article 6(1) of Regulation (EC)
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u23	Ah, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u24	Your parliamentary group tabled this moment, the last moment before the vote, under Article 6 of the amendment, which proposes, quote, "A collective voluntary supplementary pension scheme for public sector employees is set out in the public sector collective contract". Good. So things are clear. We have two amendments. We will first decide on the amendment of the committee, then on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. First, on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. Peace in the hall. 55 present. 45 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. We are voting on an amendment under order number 2, which you do not have in your review, which I have quoted. This is an amendment from the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 57 present. 22 for, 34 for. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment didn't get the required majority. We are now voting on the text of Article 6 in its entirety. We vote on the text of Article 6 in its entirety. 50 present. 41 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of Article 6 is adopted. By article 7, we have the amendment of the Committee and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, which you have before you on a special sheet. If the first amendment is adopted, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to explain the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members, which we have tabled at the request of the Veterinary Union of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to remind you that this matter has already been discussed in the first phase of the adoption of this law. At that time, a supplementary proposal was adopted in this National Assembly at the first reading, in order for the government to consider and prepare for the second reading this Law on Public Wage Schemes in a way that will also introduce a new professional group, namely the group of veterinarians. Such an additional proposal was adopted at the time. In my second reading, I did not hear an argument in the Minister's explanation, with what arguments the Government did not take into account in the preparation of the second reading law. That is why we have listened to the veterinary union in the New Slovenia Group. Already in this House, we have said that, in fact, the veterinarians working in the national administration system are doing a very important job of doing work in the public health system, having a lot of responsibility, and that there was a desire to align them in this law somehow with the field of health workers. I don't know how this is going to be handled either, because in the countries of the European Union, about this kind of thing is going on. For this reason, we have tabled this amendment, but then there has been an amendment to the Committee, and if the amendment of the Committee is adopted, the amendment of our Group of Members will become irrelevant. So, on vacation with the Secretary of the National Assembly, I agreed that we would change this amendment. I will now read how this amendment would be drafted, and then, of course, we will deliver it in writing. The explanation remains essentially the same and the text of the amendment would read: "In the table of the payroll group, the paying subgroup, the C-Official terms in the state administration and in the administrations of local communities and in other government bodies, a new payee subgroup - C7 - Veterinarians is added. With this amendment, if adopted in this national assembly, we would somehow follow what was adopted in the form of a supplementary proposal in the first reading. I think that this amendment in no way corrupts or undermines the intention of the proposer, but follows what has already been adopted in this national assembly. Therefore, I ask you to accept the amendment in such a form, and then the government still has the opportunity to correct anything with this promise by the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u26	It is therefore an amendment to the Committee's amendment and in this regard we will vote on it before the amendment tabled by the Committee. Does the Minister want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I would like to explain why we did not include this view in the first reading. The reason is that veterinarians are classified in several professional groups and do not represent one professional group alone. However, the difference is whether they have inspection powers or do not have them or whether they are classified as officials or not. In this way, the veterinarians are assigned to the C1 professional group, the part of the veterinarians who are officials and the part which has professional inspection powers is classified in the C6. In part, however, the veterinarians are also included in the J professional group, pardon, in Professional Group I, these are jobs in public institutions, as professionals in I1. Since they appear in several places, they cannot be integrated into one professional group, but we are classifying them as existing professional groups. This explains our decision on the position of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u28	Anyone else want a word? I'm guessing there's no one. We will therefore first vote on the proposal by the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, this is an amendment to the amendment of the Committee. Okay? We're voting. 54 present, 17 for, 35 versus. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We vote on the amendment of the board. Please. 49 present, 38 for, 7 vs. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that we have accepted this amendment and thus the article as a whole. At Article 8, we have two amendments on page 5 of our review. I'm opening a debate if anyone wants a word. [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision, first of all to an amendment under order number 1 of the Internal Policy Committee, which the Government supports. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. She's lost her mind again. I will once again put to the vote the amendment under order number 1 to Article 8. Now I would especially ask you to be careful that you do not have to take ten minutes off. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 8. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote, please. 54 present, 42 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the first amendment has received support. We are now voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. 51 present, 40 to, 2 to. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it we've accepted the other amendments. This way we can vote on the text of Article 8 in its entirety. We're voting. The text has been adopted. 40 voted in favour, 2 against 51 present. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 10 of the Internal Policy Committee, which the Government supports. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I put this proposal to the vote. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 10. 52 present. 40 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I can put the full text of Article 10 into the decision-making process. Let us vote on the text of Article 10 in its entirety! 49 present. 40 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the text has been adopted. We have five amendments tabled on pages 6 and 7 of Article 11. Anybody want a word about them? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to making the decisions in the order you have in your review. This is the amendments of the Internal Policy Committee, which are supported in a number of ways. We shall first vote on the amendment under order number one. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 11 on page 6 of the review! 46 present. 37 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. Let's vote on the amendment under order number two! Let's vote on the amendment under order number two! The amendment was accepted. 40 for, 2 for 50. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's vote on the amendment under order number three! Let's vote on the amendment under order number three! 47 present, 36 in, 3 in. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's vote for the amendment under order number four! Let's vote for the amendment under order number four! The amendment was accepted. 47 present. 38 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Finally, we are still voting on the amendment under order number 5. Let's vote on the amendment under order number five! 50 present. 38 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We can now vote on the text of Article 11 as a whole. Let's vote! Let us vote on the text of Article 11 in its entirety. 47 present. 39 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that we have accepted the proposal. Also in the amendment to Article 12, we have a proposal from the New Slovenia parliamentary group for an amendment that is not in your review and I will read it. In addition to the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee supported by the Government, the New Slovenia or the parliamentary group has a proposal that states: In Article 12, the third paragraph is amended by reading, and I quote, "The common methodology is determined by a specific collective agreement concluded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the public sector unions." End of quote. I am opening a debate on the two amendments tabled to Article 12. Who wants a word? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u29	I would ask the proposers if they could explain how they see the differences between the amendment they are proposing and the amendment proposed by the Government, because at least it has a completely related or identical content.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u30	Does any of the colleagues or colleagues of the New Slovenia Group want a word? Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. So the content is very identical, but I think our amendment is more precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u32	Good. Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u33	If I understand correctly, it is an expression that wishes to determine which collective agreement is concluded. You're talking about the public sector collective agreement, if I remember correctly. The amendment of the committee speaks of the government concluding this with representative unions. Is there a distinction in that?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u34	Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u35	This is the same content expressed in a different way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u36	What's the government's position, may I ask?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u37	The government does not exclude support for such formulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u38	Comrade Lavrinz. Then I will give the floor to the representative of the secretariat. Please, we need to be very specific, we're deciding on another reading. The amendments adopted must be consistent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u39	Look what I wanted to warn you, even the government. The committee's amendment is broader. It is not only in this distinction, because I do not have a full amendment to the 12th Article. Don't mind me saying anything. But if there is anything that needs to be corrected in this dictatorship, then I would understand it more so that this amendment of New Slovenia would be an amendment to the amendment of the committee and that in the latter part this thing will be corrected. However, I would be grateful if this amendment of New Slovenia could be fully heard.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u40	I'll read it again before I give my word to the representative of the secretariat. In Article 12, the third paragraph is amended to read, quote: "The common methodology shall be determined by a specific collective agreement concluded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the trade unions of the public sector". End of quote. Representative of the Secretariat, please. You wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. This difference between amendments is more substantive. This amendment of New Slovenia refers to the dictatorship of the third paragraph, which states: "The unique methodology and orientation jobs and titles shall be determined by collective agreement". That's what they say. This is where "orientation jobs" are deleted. This amendment should be seen in conjunction with the amendment to Article 13, including New Slovenia, to this law, which provides that orientation jobs will be determined by law. So it's a substantive difference here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u42	Good. Minister, did you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u43	After this additional explanation, we support the amendment of the committee more firmly than I said before.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u44	Good. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will vote first on the amendment of the committee. If the amendment of the Committee is adopted, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group will become irrelevant. There are no contracts. We vote on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee under order number 1 in your review on page 7 to Article 12. Peace in the hall. 54 present, 41 for, 9 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee has been voted on. This means that the amendment proposed by the New Slovenia Group to Article 12 has become irrelevant. This allows us to decide the text of Article 12 in its entirety. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 47 present, 39 for, 5 versus. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the text of Article 12 has been voted on. We have three amendments to Article 13, I understand. One amendment is under review, this is the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee, which the government supports. We have the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group and we have the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members that you do not have before you and I will read it. A review of the amendments of the New Slovenia Group of Members is being photocopyed and you will get them on the bench, but I suggest that we do not interrupt the session to read them because they are not long, they can be repeated if necessary. Our colleagues from the New Slovenia Group suggest: "In Article 13, the text is deleted in the first paragraph. [[Quote]] 'Collective contract for the public sector' [[End quote]] and is replaced by [[Quote]] "with this law." [[End quote]] . Do any of the candidates want a word or anyone else? We have three amendments to Article 13. I am opening a debate on all three of them, and then we will go to the vote in order. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u45	This is a very important conceptual issue of the law, the relationship of the law to social partnership, to collective agreements, and the relationship between the so-called general collective agreement for the public sector and industry or collective agreements for individual public sector activities. I would explicitly oppose both parties' amendments and support the amendments of the Internal Policy Committee for very important conceptual reasons. The first amendment of the Social Democratic Party shall aim to ensure that the indicative jobs or so-called accompanying works are determined in the table referred to in Article 7 by a collective agreement not for the public sector, but after activities. This would mean that the following professional groups, administrative workers, financial and accounting professions, informatics and other professional and technical professions could be regulated on a fee basis differently from one activity to another. The idea of the law is to unify professional groups for the whole public sector and to adopt an amendment by the Social Democratic Party would in fact constitute a fragmentation of wage policy for similar professional groups across different parts of the public sector, which is exactly one of the conceptual objectives of this law in order to achieve this unification. I therefore propose that you do not support this amendment for these important reasons. The second question opens up New Slovenia. This is the question of whether the so-called indicative jobs should be established by law or by collective agreement for the public sector, as proposed by the Government and supported by the Internal Policy Committee. If indicative jobs were to be regulated by the law itself, they would significantly reduce the scope of the social partnership, which is what the debate in this National Assembly has been working very hard to do today. The collective agreements for the public sector and the identification of indicative jobs are an important lever of this social partnership. The legal definition of these so-called typical jobs per section of the public sector would constitute unilateral government determination without cooperation with trade unions of this very important public sector wage definition system. In addition, there is another important argument. These indicative jobs are not yet in place and will be subject to negotiations with trade unions after the adoption of this law. Even if such a definition were to be made in law, this is not feasible during the time of the adoption of the law, since it is in line with a different plan to create a system of wages following the adoption of the law by collective bargaining method. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that they definitely support the amendments of the Internal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u46	Anyone else want a word? I'm a colleague of Gaber's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u47	Mr. President! Dear government officials! My personal opinion is that, in fact, the different arrangements proposed by the Government would not constitute a violation of the principle of social partnership. It would not mean this if we reached an agreement on these issues before these relations were recorded in law. But it would mean something else. I would point out that there is a need to make a significantly greater effort at this stage to draw up a wage regulation on all sides in order to have fewer problems later, less problems, less pressure on relationships. Why would it be very important, at least in principle? Because the ratios are the main generator of wages in this country and the main generator of countries. I'm not saying it's so necessary to settle it, the government is deciding on it. I would point out, however, that the problem of social partnership can be solved differently and I would point out that it is entirely possible for the government to try to harmonise it after a certain period of time, or after a certain number of years, when it is necessary to re-coordinate it continuously, but would want to regulate it in law. I think that would be much better. But I say directly that I will support what the government expects to support in this case. But I won't accept the argument.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u48	Thank you, Comrade Dr. Gaber. Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't mean to come by because the matter is clear, but, given the Minister's explanation, it is still necessary. This is, of course, a concept or space, the width of space that we give to the social partners to regulate. When we speak or regulate public sector wage relations, we should close this thing a little less because we know who the negotiator is, because the government is, therefore, that employer in the case of the public sector. That is why this proposal is justified. However, the issue of the future of the social partnership is open, especially for the non-public sector, to gain more and more meaning and width of this partnership. As has already been said, the public sector is generally not so wide open in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u50	My friend Dr. Tuck. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. It is certainly the ambition of the law to put anchors on wages, and we certainly support this intention. Anchors mean not only the lowest and highest wages in each industry. They could also include average wages or global funds for each industry or whatever. However, it is certainly impossible to leave a wide scope of specific negotiations on a particular industry to a universal collective contract for the public sector and thus to assume, on the one hand, that there is such a great similarity between the individual sectors that it will be possible because it will certainly not be possible. Among them is so specific that it is impossible for representatives of one industry to talk and give their consent on internal distribution, internal provisions. It is impossible, within the framework of these anchors, that other unions or other representatives give their full consent or debate or whatever. On the other hand, it is certainly important that these unions are still allowed, if it is not possible to reach a consensus now, a dialogue to allow them an open opportunity to discuss their specifics within these anchors. Therefore, we believe that our proposal is correct, in fact, that what is missing in this law is somehow being resolved in the last-minute quality and, of course, we propose that this be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u52	Thank you very much. So we have three amendments tabled. I will put them to the vote in the next order. First the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, then the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee and finally the amendment of the Social Democratic Party Group. First, I shall put Article 13 to the vote of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. I'm asking for peace. 51 present, 13 for, 33 versus. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. I now put to the vote the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee [[you have it in your review on page 7]] . We're voting. 53 present, 39 for, 6 versus. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I take it this amendment has received the necessary support. We are also deciding on the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. 52 present, 16 in, 34 in. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We can now vote on the text of Article 13 as a whole. We're voting. 50 in attendance, 39 in, 6 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I note that we have adopted the text of Article 13. We have tabled an amendment to Article 14 of the Internal Policy Committee. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm putting to the vote an amendment to the Internal Policy Committee, which is an amendment under order number one in your review. We're voting. The amendment was accepted. 37 for, 4 to 50 present. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] Now I can put the full text of the article to the vote. We're voting. She's lost her mind again. My colleagues and colleagues, once again, I will put to the vote the text of Article 14 as a whole. We vote on the text of Article 14 in its entirety. We are voting next time, so I ask for your attention. 54 present, 39 to, 2 to. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. By article 16, we have, in addition to the three amendments tabled by the Internal Policy Committee, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members [[You now have it in your review of the amendments tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members before you. This is on the other side of the review of these amendments. Anyone want to talk about the four amendments that have been tabled? (Nobody.]] You want a word? Please. Mr. Klinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u53	I would like to comment on the amendment to Article 16 made by the New Slovenia Group of Members. In doing so, it must be said that the envisaged future method of advancement does not provide for automatic advances to the pay grade if it progresses to the title. When horizontal career systems and promotions are made into titles, these titles or wage classes will, of course, overlap with each other. This means that there will also be a situation when someone goes to a higher title, and in fact they will come to a higher title horizontally and therefore will not advance to a pay grade. But he'll just change the title and then move on to that title. This means that we think that quality, according to the current way forward, is just about not allowing automaticism to advance. It doesn't look like it's an automatic payday if you're moving on to the title. Therefore, we do not support the amendment to Article 16.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u54	Good. That's the government's position. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it. Let me tell you how we're going to vote and what order we're going to take. First on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and then on a series of amendments in your review proposed by the Committee. We will first vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 16. 53 present. 15 for, 35 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We will now vote on the amendment under order number one in your review, this is the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number one, this is the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. 46 present. 36 for, 1 for. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've accepted this amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We're in the middle of a vote. The second amendment has been adopted. 36 for, none against 48 present. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Finally, the amendment under order number 3, the Internal Policy Committee. We're voting. Please note, we are voting on the amendment under order number 3, the Committee on Internal Policy. 48 present. 38 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment received the necessary support. We can now vote on the full text of the article. Please. We vote on the text of Article 16 as a whole. May I have your attention in the hall, please? 47 present. 36 for, 3 for. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] We have concluded our decision on Article 16 which has been adopted. At Article 17, we have an amendment, which is the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We decide on the proposal by the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to Article 17, which the Government supports. We're voting. Order! 48 present, 39 to, 3 to [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the motion has been put to the vote. We vote on the text of Article 17 in its entirety. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to step into the hall. Once again, once again, I shall put the text of Article 17 to the vote in full. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? 49 present, 39 for, 4 versus. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against four.]] I note that we have concluded our decision on Article 17, the text is adopted. Look, as much as you do, I need to conduct the adoption process as closely as possible, so I'm asking you for a little more peace. Please! By article 18, we have tabled an amendment to the Committee and the New Slovenia Group of Members, i.e. two amendments. Anybody want a word about them? Please, Mr. Director. I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u55	I would comment on the amendment to the 18th Article of the New Slovenia Group. I must say that the amendment of the Committee has already changed the tariff group to a tariff class, so that we are talking about the tariff class in a new way. But it's not the point of this amendment. The point is that someone who is placed in a pay grade for a job together with promotion classes should not come over the upper threshold that we set from the range. That's essential. So, so far, during the coordination process, trade unions have somehow wanted to delete this article, in the same way that they would not actually have any limitations. It is said that we would not have any limitations to progress so that we do not have restrictions in these ranges. If this article were to be deleted, then I don't see the point of Annex 2, we don't see the point of limiting these ranges at all. This is a key substantive issue and we therefore oppose this Article 18 and support the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u56	We have two amendments. First, I will put to the vote the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. If this is accepted, the second will become irrelevant. May I have your attention in the vote? We will vote first on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. If this is accepted, the amendment, which is now entered under order number 1 in the review, shall become irrelevant. Let's vote! I'm asking for peace in the hall! 52 present. 14 for, 34 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This is how we can now decide on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee, which the government supports. Let's vote! May I have your attention, please? 47 present. 36 for, 4 for. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that we have accepted the amendment and that we can vote on the text of Article 18 as a whole. Once again, I will propose that we vote on the text of Article 18 in its entirety. Please see if any of the other Members and Members who are in the lobby can come to the hearing room. Secondly, I will put to the vote the draft text of Article 18 as a whole. Let's vote! May I have your attention for peace in the hall? We are in the midst of a vote on the text of Article 18 as a whole. Peace in the hall! 48 present. 37 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 18 has been adopted. The decision on the 18th Article, which has been adopted, has been concluded with this. By article 19, we have only one amendment. This is an amendment to the Internal Policy Committee. Anybody want a word about him? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 19, which is on the 9th page of your review. Let us vote on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to Article 19. Peace in the hall! Colleagues and colleagues! I will put once again to the vote, secondly, the proposal for an amendment to Article 19. Let's vote next time, please! May I have your attention in the hall, please? For the second time, we are voting on the amendment to Article 19. 49 present, 37 for, one up. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment. We vote on Article 19 as a whole. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? 48 in attendance, 37 in, 4 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. This allows us to move on to a decision on Article 20. The Internal Policy Committee is proposing an amendment. Anybody want a word about him? [[No, no, ……]] This is an amendment supported by the government and we are voting on it. We vote on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. 47 present, 39 for, one up. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on Article 20 as a whole. 49 present, 39 in, 3 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I take it we've accepted Article 20. As of the 21st article, we have two amendments tabled: three? Three amendments tabled, the Internal Policy Committee, the Social Democratic Party and the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want a word about them? Please, Mr. Director.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I would comment on both amendments, the two parliamentary groups, the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia. Article 21 refers to the determination of the level of resources for work performance. The Commission's proposal, supported by the Government, speaks of this being determined by a public sector collective agreement for all segments of the public sector and being set at 5%. We support this and, at the same time, we are opposed to both these amendments for the reason that an increase in the volume of funds to 10% would mean increased public spending, which we do not have a mandate to do, and we therefore oppose. While the second amendment speaks of the fact that - if we delete the collective contract for the public sector, we would be in a situation where we should regulate this with individual contracts of activity, which would lead to completely unanimity solutions. This means we support the amendment of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u58	Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u59	The employment performance margin does not necessarily mean an increase in wages, it is reliable, but it allows for a more stimulating award of state employees, what the government has announced. These arguments don't hold up. We have said, however, that there are key professions in anchoring, but there could now be a certain limit to the law, so that there is no extreme pressure from trade unions on the government. That's all. If you think 5% is going to be okay, then - because if you wanted to lower your wages, you could say, why not just 1% - because your employees would say, "You go and have fun with 1%." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u60	Please, first of all, Minister, if he wants to. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u61	Perhaps to explain what the relationship is today. You probably know the legal regime by which a maximum of 3% can be allocated for work performance, in practice it is implemented at 2%. 5% of the work performance, as proposed, thus means doubling today's level of resources for work performance and, according to the experts' calculations, this is sufficient for the objectives set by the government as regards this part of the stimulus.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u62	Would you like to complete the minister, Mr. Director? [[No, no, ……]] Okay. Please, colleague Pavlinic Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it would also be worth clarifying in this article that paragraph 4 does not close the possibility for individual budget users to achieve, through rationalisation or savings, the opportunity to use these savings to increase the level of performance for each budgetary user. This seems to me to be an extremely important, encouraging moment for a particular budgetary user, that, of course, in a work where he has the resources of his retirement, he does not replace these vacant posts, but rather by increasing the burden of employees, if they assess that it is possible to do so on the basis of this savings, which, by this law and the fourth paragraph, we give him as an opportunity to increase the remuneration of the more burdened workers referred to in this title. That is what I think, if we read this in the set, this is a huge gain, both in the direction of increasing the level of performance and stimulation in the more rational organisation of individual budgetary users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u65	Maybe just this extra explanation. I attach to this, which is what the colleague is talking about as an additional argument. The law provides, as you know, for a maximum of one salary of performance from two different titles: one is already mentioned rationalisation and the other is sales on the market of services managed by the public sector. This is one argument which increases the additional volume of resources for performance. The second argument, however, may be ignored because it is somehow hidden in the system: the percentage for performance will then be paid on a significantly higher basis. Indeed, basic salaries are being increased as a result of the type of allowances, even up to 20 in a given part of the public sector, are now included in this increase in the basic salary; this also means that this will have an impact on the increased share of the funding for performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u66	Good. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must warn you that there are just so many of us that we can decide if we all vote carefully. That's the first warning. The other is procedural. First, we will vote on the amendment of New Slovenia, the amendment of the Committee and, finally, the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. I warn you, we must all vote if we are to make a decision. First, I will put to the vote the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Let's vote! May I have your attention, please? Peace in the hall! 51. 14 for, 32 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 32.]] He didn't get the required majority. We vote on the amendment of the committee: 49 present, 39 against, 5 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] He's got the support he needs. And now the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. We're voting. 46 in attendance, 19 in, 22 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 22.]] He didn't get the support he needed. We vote on the text of Article 21 in its entirety. Peace, we vote on the text of Article 21 in its entirety. 46 in attendance, 37 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that we voted on the text. We have Article 22, the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group and two internal policy committees. I'm opening a debate on all three. I don't see any interest in the debate. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u67	For the reasons already stated, this means that the unification of key parts of the pay system for the whole public sector is not supported by this amendment, which would allow performance criteria to be defined differently in different parts and thus also places workers in different parts of the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much. No one else. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We will first vote on the amendment of Article 22 of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group to Article 22. 52 present, 13 for, 34 versus. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 34.]] He didn't get the support he needed. We are now deciding on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. Again, colleagues and colleagues. Colleagues and colleagues, I'll put it to the vote one more time. Secondly, I am putting to the vote the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to Article 22. We're voting. I'll put it to the vote next time. May I have your attention, we are voting on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. Who's objecting to me voting again? Business would be a good thing. Objection? Good. Then I give you 10 minutes off. We'll continue at 12 o'clock and 41 minutes. If no one had objected, I would have continued. However, the Rules of Procedure are such that in this case I must give [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u69	Please take your seats. Again, I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. I'm just going to wait a bad minute, and then I'm going to put a third motion to the vote. Thirdly, we vote on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to Article 22. Are we gathered? We vote on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to Article 22. Please, peace in the hall. 53 present, 40 in, 4 in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment of the committee has been adopted. We vote on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee, under order number 2. We're voting. Peace in the hall. 51 in attendance, 39 in and 6 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This way we can vote on the whole text of the article. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the full text of the article. Was there a problem? Look, we are in the middle of deciding on the whole text of Article 22. I will now put the proposal to the vote next time. If attendance were too weak again, we'd have to take a break again, I think it'd be a shame. I therefore propose that we repeat the vote, a second time. Please vote. I'm asking for your concentration and your vote. 51 present, 38 for, 4 vs. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the text has been voted on. With Article 23, we have three amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups, New Slovenia, the Social Democratic Party and the Committee on Internal Policy. I'm putting all three of them on trial if anyone wants a word. We will vote in this order, first of all the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. If adopted, the proposal or amendment of the Socialist Party's Group becomes irrelevant. Finally, we are voting on the amendment of the committee. We are voting first on the Minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u70	If so, I would like to define myself until the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 23. In fact, there are two issues, the seventh indent of Article 23, where the proposed formulation excludes "which are not taken into account in the second evaluation of a job or function" and the word "special" or the word "emerging occasionally" is deleted. In this part, this amendment is acceptable to us and we have already agreed to agreements with the social partners in this regard. In this part, we are prepared to recast this provision in the third reading, or if Nova Slovenija in this sense changes this amendment in order to miss the last paragraph of its amendment, which is unacceptable to us. In fact, it is again envisaged that the collective agreement on activities may provide for additives rather than a collective contract for the public sector. I have already argued that fragmentation of decisions on such supplements in collective agreements is unacceptable. In short, this part of the amendment cannot be supported, and in the first part it is acceptable in a substantive sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u71	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I repeat the order of the votes. The amendment of the New Slovenia Group, if adopted, does not decide on the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. In any case, we decide on the amendment of the committee. Let us first vote on the proposal of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group! Order! We're making a decision! 49 present, 13 in, 32 in. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it that the proposal did not receive support. Let us vote on the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group! Let us vote on the proposal of the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members! This one didn't get any support either. 33 versus, 14 for 49. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let's vote on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee! 48 in attendance, 39 in, 4 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us vote on the full text of the article! We vote on the full text of the article. Colleagues and colleagues, we've got ten minutes to decide to stop this morning's session. I will once again put to the vote a proposal for a full text of the article and ask for the necessary concentration. We're voting. We're voting, please. 50 present, 38 for, 4 versus. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against four.]] The text of the Article shall be put to the vote Article 24 introduces two amendments, both by the Internal Policy Committee. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote first on the amendment under order number 1. Please. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 24. 49 present, 37 in, 3 in. (For the vote was 37. )(against 3.) This amendment has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 49 present, 37 in, 3 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. And we decide on the text of Article 24 in its entirety. We decide on the text of Article 24 in its entirety. We are in the decision-making process on the text of Article 14. For the first time in a few votes, the National Assembly was not concluded. I will now put the full text of Article 24 to the vote, secondly. We're voting. I would like to ask for an assembly and a vote on the text of Article 24. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Peace in the hall. 47 in attendance, 37 in, 3 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against three.]] The text has been adopted. We have three amendments tabled in Article 25. Excuse me. Two amendments. We have an amendment to the Committee on Internal Policy and the New Slovenia Group of Members. Any of them want a word? [[He does.]] Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u72	I hope our amendment is supported. I hope the government is also in favour of our proposal. Since before, I think that in Article 3, the Minister has mentioned that he wants to give as much space as possible to negotiate with the social partners. So I don't think there will be any problem with support, except, of course, if I'm wrong, he's changed his mind in the meantime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u73	Before I give my word to the Minister, I will ask for the necessary assembly in the Chamber. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much. There is no change of opinion, we support this amendment of New Slovenia, even on the basis of the argument given here, is not excluded by the concept on which this law is based, nor is it excluded by the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u75	Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] Then we will vote by first deciding on the amendment of the committee and then on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. We are therefore voting first on the amendment of the Committee to Article 25. We're voting. I'm asking for a meeting in the hall. We vote on the amendment under order number 1, the Internal Policy Committee, to Article 25. Peace in the hall! 48 in attendance, 36 in, 4 in. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has received support. We are now voting on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the 25th Article; the government supports this proposal. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Obviously, the focus in the parliamentary groups has led to a lack of concentration. I will wait for a few moments and then put to the vote a proposal by the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, which the government supports. We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, second time. Peace in the hall! 51 present, 41 for, 6 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the text of Article 25 in its entirety. We're voting. The text has been put to the vote. Of the 46 present, 45 supported the proposal, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] Article 26 was tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. You want a word, Minister? Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u76	This amendment of New Slovenia cannot be supported for the reasons already presented. There is also a requirement to regulate mentoring, addition, through a collective agreement of activities, which is unacceptable from the point of view of a concept that wants unification in all areas relating to additives.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u77	Anyone else want a word? Please, buddy Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u78	We're at the 28th, aren't we?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u79	Article 26.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u80	A, at Article 26.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u81	Okay, I thought it was a misunderstanding. We have an amendment by the Socialist Party's parliamentary group to Article 26. No one wants to debate any more, so I will put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. Peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote. Order! 56 present, 18 in, 32 in. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it that the proposal did not receive the necessary majority. We are still voting on the whole article. We vote on the full text of the article. 47 in attendance, 36 in, 5 in. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the text has been adopted. Attention, under Article 28, we have tabled an amendment from a colleague of the Pozsonec, who is supported by the government, and from a colleague of Battelli, who you have on a special paper. Anyone want to talk about these two? He wants a colleague of Battelli, a colleague of Lavrinz. Comrade Battelli first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The original government proposes that the amount of the extras for bilingual business is actually the subject of union negotiations. So the government maintains the principle and the right and the principle, but leaves it to the collective agreement to determine the amount of this supplement. We do not believe that this can be dangerous at a given time for legal certainty. Because this is about a specificity that is also territorial. And in union dialectic it can be an object, as I would say, of fighting and can also boycott certain rights that are an integral part of our legal regime. For this reason, it seems more prudent to take pictures of the current state of affairs in this area and to provide these supplements more legally than are now recognised in the various legal acts in force. I would add that, I would add something else about the difference between the amendment signed by Mrs Possonec and my amendments. If you take a good look, this is about defining the allowance for judges. Because, in this first amendment, we have overlooked investors, Mrs Poznesec and I, the fact that the judges are officials according to the terminology used. In short, judges who currently receive 10 per cent of the allowance on the basic salary are added if they work in a national mixed area; where special rights are in force for both indigenous national communities. Therefore, I suggest you support the amendment that I have signed because it covers all the categories that are currently receiving this supplement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u83	Good. I would like to adjourn the debate now. It's 13 o'clock. I suggest because there are still reports to discuss that we now interrupt and invite you to a very short but cordial reception. Here we will receive the world recorder, the swimmer Mankoč and the representatives who have returned with medals from the championship. And I invite you all to the lobby. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u84	Ladies and gentlemen! I begin the afternoon part of the 16th extraordinary session and first of all inform you that they are excused to be absent for the afternoon part - as is written here. Janez Kramberger, Davorin Terčon from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., Yuri Malovrez from 17:00 p.m. on, Janez Podobnik from 16.30 p.m. and Zoran Gračner for the afternoon part. We stayed at Article 28. Before we proceed with our work, we note the presence in the hall. Please check that the cards are inserted and press "quorum". We're detecting a conundrum, please! I find that 34 Members and Members are present, which, of course, is not enough. I ask all those of you who are nearby to join us so that we can continue our work. In a minute, I'll rediscover the concoction. Next time, we find a presence in the hall! Quorum, please! Fifty Members and Members of Parliament are present. We're final, and we can move on with our work. We are at Article 28 – we have two debates reported. First Mr. Wolf and then Mr. Lavrinc. Mr. Wolf is gone, and I see Mr. Lavrinc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u85	I suggest you give the word to the lady first. Marika raised her hand, I think, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u86	We're going in order.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u87	Okay, well, then I'll be very principled not to offend anyone. I accept the arguments that have led both Marika Possonec and esteemed colleague Roberto Battelli to submit this amendment, but I ask myself this question. I even know that this is actually a recording of a condition. But we're adopting a new system law, in which some things we've decided to do differently. And I would therefore ask the representatives of the government and, of course, both of the proposed amendments whether this is balanced with the higher-a-vis law. This special arrangement sticks out - well, due to special needs, I'll say, both minorities. But I'm talking about the amount or the amount of these supplements. Whether these supplements are balanced with regard to the general arrangements in this law, I would like to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u88	Thank you. Mrs. Possonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. If I may say so, Mr President, you were not in principle - I stayed out of this morning's work, so I was already on my turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u90	In third place.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u91	Yeah. So it's not an acceptable government version to regulate bilingualism by collective agreement, because it's a constitutional category of 40 years, at least 40 years. This maintains that educators, teachers get 20% of the basic salary, and believe me, that every tolar is very hard to earn, they earned it, that is, justifiably, and that officials got 3 or 6% of the basic salary based on language knowledge. So, the amendment I signed had the intention of somehow narrowing it down. Otherwise, we both signed this amendment with Robert Battelli. The difference between my amendment and his is that I do not currently support 10% of the judges' allowance for a number of reasons. The biggest reason is that I have found that they do not even have a language requirement in marriage as a condition for admission to work. So I asked a few questions, and if I get answers to them, then I can give my signature to a calm soul. But now I also understood what my colleagues were worried about. Now the salary will be charged differently, but if no amendments are supported, then the third reading is closed and we cannot reach it. So now I don't really care which amendment you support, only that the article will be open so that we can continue to discuss this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u92	Thank you. Any other Members want a word? Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with Mrs Possonec, and I am also ready to withdraw my amendment if our first signatory, Mrs Possonec, is accepted. In fact, it is a matter of letting - now I am also aware of - let us leave open the possibility that by the third reading, in view of the new way of calculating wages, let us address the whole issue of bilingual supplements, which is an integral part of our current regime, it is only a matter of harmonising percentages or sums as such. That is why I am asking for the support of the amendment, where Mrs Possonec is the first signatory. If this is accepted, of course I will withdraw mine. And I think this is the best way to deal with this whole thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u94	Mr. Battelli, that's not how it works. I'm sorry. Or do you withdraw the amendment or are we voting on it? The order is yours first. And because there's an amendment to the amendment. And then it's from Mrs. Pozsonchev.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u95	I'm sorry. I didn't know he was my first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u96	Yours is also broader in content.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u97	I understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u98	That's how we have to go in this order.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u99	Yeah, yeah, I get it. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u100	If you prefer, when we vote on this, we will go in this order, unless you withdraw.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u101	I think it's good to hear the government's opinion before and then we'll see how.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u102	Then you'll decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u103	That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u106	Any other Members want a word? [[No one else.]] I ask the Director of the Wages Office, Mr. Klinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u107	Thank you. Well, that's what I'd say. The government is designated to both amendments by supporting Mr Battelli's amendment because it is broader. Since it covers, if this specification is already to be taken into account in bilingual areas, then it should also be taken into account for officials. Now, given the change in the system, because in fact the basic salary in the new system is wider than before, the application of the same percentages as in the old system would mean higher nominal supplements. While we know that there will be no changes in the functionaries of these changes, because the operating salary has also been used before - the allowances have been calculated with a judicial allowance. And the current basic salary will be the same, the same accounting basis as before. I don't think that's gonna be a problem for the officers. But we would take this opportunity to check these percentages by the third reading and, if necessary, to come with an amendment to this paragraph. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm not withdrawing the amendment. I understood that the government supports our general thinking on this issue and that, therefore, in order to remain open, it is now necessary to amend it. And so it seems to me that I have understood that the government also says that we should let it be amended so that we can resolve the matter appropriately by the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss this anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. In order, we will first vote on Mr Battelli's amendment and, if adopted, the amendment of Mrs. Pozonchev is irrelevant So we're voting on Mr. Battelli's amendment. Let's vote, please. 45. We will repeat the vote. We're different in the hall. This is the second time we have voted. Let's vote, please. 43. We continue the meeting at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u111	So please, if we can get ready for this. [[...]] We decide on Mr Battelli's amendment, third time. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 26 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted; this also makes Mrs Possonchev's amendment irrelevant, and this way the article has been amended. We move on to the 29th article, where we have two amendments. First, here is the amendment of the Social Democratic Party and then the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. With the amendment, the Social Democratic Party has fallen out - if you please look at page 3 - the words in the first line, namely, 'Article 29 se', are now missing the words 'in paragraph 1' [[is not indicated where]] for the word 'conditions', not 'conditions', and then for the text as it continues to be written. I think I read it correctly, at least I hope. Who wants to discuss the amendments and the article? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We will first vote on the amendment of the Social Democratic Party. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 14, 26 votes against. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We vote on the second amendment to Article 29. Let's vote, please. 44 present. We'll vote next time. 45 present. It didn't work again. This break will now last until 3:13 p.m., and I'll start at exactly 3:13 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u112	We vote for the third time on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee to Article 29. Let's vote, please. Of the 56 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 29 as a whole. Let's vote. Of the 49 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 30, the three amendments, in order of order: the amendment of New Slovenia, then the second amendment - the Social Democratic Party, and the third amendment is the amendment of the internal policy committee. If the first amendment, i.e. New Slovenia, is adopted, then the SDS amendment is not up to date, but the third is either neutral or, as I say, something in between, independent of it. Okay. I'm opening a debate on the article and the amendments. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. First, we vote on the amendment of New Slovenia. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 14, 30 voted against. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 2, this is the amendment of the Social Democratic Party. We're voting. Of the 51 present, 14 Members and Members voted against 31. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And the third amendment, the board. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 40 Members and Members voted against 3. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on Article 30 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 36, 2 votes. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 31, where we have one amendment of New Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 31. Let's vote. Of the 50 present, 15 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on the 31st article as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 40 votes in favour, 4 against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 32(2) Here we have the amendment of the Social Democratic Party. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 15 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are still voting on Article 32 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 48 present, 37 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 32 has been adopted. We're at Article 38. Two amendments are here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the first amendment to Article 38. Let's vote, please! Of the 48 present, 38 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's vote on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote, please! Of the 48 present, 40 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us vote on Article 38 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 47 present, 39 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 38 has been adopted. Article 39 An amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to decision-making on Article 39. Let's vote, please! Of the 46 Members present, 38 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 39 as a whole. Let's vote, please. 45 present. The second time, please, we are voting on Article 39 as a whole. Let's vote. Of the 48 present, 39 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the 40th article where an amendment has been tabled. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 40. Let's vote. Of the 39 present, 37 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 40 as a whole. Let's vote, please. 44 present. It's not enough, though. For the second time, we are voting on Article 40 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 39 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 40 has been adopted. Excuse me - 42nd Article - I believe that it is also foolish for you to vote on any amendments, but if this is just a slope, it is not an amendment - but, okay. So, who wants to discuss the slopes in Article 42? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the amendment to Article 42. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 37 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on Article 42 as a whole. Let's vote. 43 present. The second time we vote on Article 42 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 48 present, 36 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that paragraph 42 has been adopted. Article 44 An amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Let us vote on the amendment to Article 44. Let's vote, please! 42 present. Let us vote on the amendment to Article 44 second time. Let's vote! Of the 48 present, 37 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 44 as a whole. Let's vote, please! 42 present. Let's vote next time, please! 42 present. Clearly, there is insufficient support for Article 44. The Bible’s - 15.36. However, I would ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups, in particular those who have a large majority to ensure either presence or greater seriousness, or I do not know what. We have a break every 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u113	Please come to the hall so we can make a decision for the third time. So, at 15.36 we are voting the third time on Article 44 in full. This is the third time we've voted, please. Let's vote. Of the 55 present, 38 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it that paragraph 44 has been adopted. At Article 46, we have an amendment to the amendment tabled by [[We've got this on the special sheet.]] Liberal democracy, and then we have an amendment to Article 46. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word from Members and Members? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u114	With regard to the amendment to the amendment, I would like to explain the following. We have repeatedly discussed the issue of professional collective bargaining and their role within the pay system, as provided for by law, and the position has been taken, even in professional circles, that professional collective agreements can be the implementing instrument of this law, of course, explicitly within the framework laid down by the law through indicative jobs or ranges. In short, when it comes to the implementation of the law by collective agreements with its other limitations and other limits, then a professional collective agreement can be an instrument. The amendment to the amendment extends the possibility of collective bargaining also to higher education or research activities and to those already concluded at the time of the adoption of this Act. In this sense, as I have taken a position on professional collective agreements, such an amendment could be acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u115	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I would ask the Minister, with all due respect, whether this amendment also writes in this sense, because I can read it differently. For I am of the opinion that now to pre-determine, to extend the scope of contracts for individual professions, means to re-open the system that we have already had; this is, specifically, to regulate for each profession individually, while at the same time to have a written law that is supposed to redefine something. And if it's certainly what the Minister says that I'm wrong and that this article can only be understood that it will be within the framework of the system, I don't mind. He just said it wasn't accurate, so it would be a wish. I have to say, I want the text to be like that, not a wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u118	This question is justified. I understand the wording myself, and I think I understand it correctly, in such a way that it excludes the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth paragraphs of Article 13, but not the first paragraph - and the first paragraph explicitly states that the indicative jobs are determined by a collective agreement of activities, which means that these collective contracts are also subject to professional contracts. However, the ranges, which are also legal limits, also apply to professional collective agreements, and as for all others there is no doubt at all. The amendment is therefore even more precise because it explicitly quotes the provision of Article 13 and releases Article 13, point 1, which refers to indicative jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No one else.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Let's vote on the amendment to the amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 29, 7 voted against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. Let us now vote on the amendment to Article 46. Let's vote, please! Of the 47 present, 39 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us vote on Article 46 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 39, 2 votes. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 47, one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 47. Let's vote! 43 present. Let us vote secondly on the amendment to Article 47. Let's vote, please! Of the 49 present, 39, 2 votes. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 47 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 48 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 48, one amendment. Who wants a word? This is not a propensity, but now the plurality, such a fundamental change in the debate, I do not see. [[...]] Good. Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a decision on this nonsense. I can't say anything else. I apologize for the discourse. Let's vote, please! We'll vote next time. Of the 48 present for 39, 1 versus. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 48 as a whole. Please, let's vote! Of the 47 present there are 37 Members and Members, 1 against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 50 An amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! Of the 48 present, 38, 2 votes. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. It's all part of the 50th. Let's vote! Of the 47 present, 41 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 50 has been adopted. Article 51, one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Let's vote on the amendment to Article 51! Of the 52 present, 40 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 51 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 48 present, 36, 2 votes. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 61 has been adopted. Article 52(2), first Here we have a comprehensive amendment that completely changes the article. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 52. Let's vote! Of the 48 present, 40 votes in favour, 3 against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. Annex 1. Two amendments. I'm opening a debate. No one wants to discuss it. I conclude the debate and move on to the decision on the two amendments to the first annex. Amendment to the first annex first. Let's vote! 45 present. We're re-voting. Second, we vote on the first amendment to Annex 1. Let's vote. Of the 47 present, 39 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the second amendment to Annex 1. Let's vote. Of the 49 present, 38 votes in favour and 2 against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on Annex 1 in full. Let's vote. Of the 48 present, 39 Members and Members voted in favour, 2 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the annex has been adopted. We're at Annex 2. We have four amendments here, and this is the fifth moment, a group of Members with the first signed by Rudolf Mohet. I ask the motioner, Mr Mojet, because this moment we have also received this amendment, whether we can explain what this is about to make it easier for us. In fact, I am opening the debate - I am sorry, I have not done this procedural work - I am opening the debate on Annex 2 and the amendments and I would ask if Mr Moje would first speak his own way so that Members and Members could be in this crowd. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u120	President, thank you so much for your word. The public, even on the basis of statistics, has long known that teachers have been deprived in the past and also in the present with regard to other professions, so that they cannot progress as well as other workers. In short, it is clear from the table we have received as Annex 2 to which I am making the amendment that teachers can never reach such a class as police officers, as customs officers, as other officials with special powers, as doctors, as nurses, as other health workers, as health workers, as health professionals, as professional workers, professional colleagues and, lastly, not to mention, as administrative workers and other technical professionals. If we are building a country that will build trust in people, love for its own country, citizens who will be able to work, then people in education and education, where they work, should also be allowed to rise slightly above this threshold. The government published material in the Reporter, where column D2 was excessively higher and from yesterday to today this column fell by several classes. The amendment adopted by Lavrink's Committee or the Laurine Amendment speaks of the D2 and D4 being raised by 2 because we didn't know that yesterday, and the government changed it overnight after its assurance, this amendment merely complements Lavrinsky's amendment by raising university lecturers and other professionals for the higher classes. It should be said that it is only the salaries of teachers, namely those who have the professional title of saint. Only this would be possible, so advance for the 2nd grade, is in the total mass of 1.7 percent and only 495. And if we take 2 more classes out of this mass, we get to the number of promes that teachers could reach as the upper threshold. For this reason, I think that the government should first answer why teachers are so highly valued here and whether such a committee supports or supports the amendment. But if it does not open up what it intends to do to make this seat the lowest sitting in which teachers are now sitting, everyone is almost above them, the lowest saddle, or thinks to do with some activity so that this seat will lift up a little bit higher and also all professors, from high school to elementary school, would make progress as it has made possible in all other segments. If we want to have that state of affairs, then we don't need a table at all, we don't need a law, but we just need to look at statistics, and we can do this table by statistics. However, it seems to me that by adopting the law, at least in this segment, which deviates significantly from others, we should do something to change this attitude towards education in general in Slovenia, at the same time as this law. Therefore, on behalf of the applicants, I would like to ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal followed by the government and its calculations is this one. The MPs got him on the bench this proposal. Follow some of the rules we set ourselves. This is the elimination of disproportionates at three, four levels, as explained here in this table. First of all, the equalization of all branches of power. Second of all, top-of-the-line professional professions. Thirdly, trade with special powers and so on. This is a proposal based on the coordination so far, on the current level of familiarity, on the existing interest services with the social partners, which is certainly not complete. The government intends to submit for third reading additional harmonisations that will be achieved with the social partners in the coming days. I'm sure that's the last thing that's going to happen. How to address the imbalance - by making financial calculations for each decision, of course, what this means for public sector wage costs. As we say, for this proposal today, we have made calculations and we have a mandate to support in the National Assembly, i.e. only the increases that you see here in the columns marked red. Therefore, this proposal does not mean a situation which has arisen, it means some significant corrections within the extent to which the calculations have been able to so far. This does not, of course, rule out possible reductions if you decide - and some amendments go in this direction - but the proposer certainly does not have a mandate by the government to agree to any increases today. In doing so, I would like to make it clear that it is not excluded that corrections will also be made to these species, which have already been discussed in the third reading proposal today.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u123	Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. It is true that the Committee on Internal Policy has adopted an amendment that is somewhat similar to the amendment tabled by a group of Members with Mr Rudolf Mohet, the first-signed. However, it is also true that I have opposed this amendment myself. By the way, I'm in my pants so much that I hope to say out loud that at this time the government is actually negotiating, I'm not moving the chair. Do this to the other one, the one you think is fine. That's the first one. Secondly, I think this Annex 2 is either way now wounded on several sides. I'm not sure she's balanced. After all, we have repaired many things, so of course things need to be done. For example, on the board we have gladly reduced the number of classes or these rates, we have thrown three to get closer to what the union warns us that we are not in such a situation as to have - I don't know, as in some banana republics - some in the clouds and others in the mud. That's why I've always gone this way and, of course, because I appreciate this teaching profession and the profession of educators, I can't just say I'm in or I'm in. It is necessary to look at matters, and I believe that until the third reading is just the right time, and the government will also have the opportunity to talk to trade partners about these things and, of course, tell them what is heard in the corridors, that only Members and Judges should not do anything else in this country, that Members have a month of vacation, and others have much more and so on. In short, all these things are not allowed to be rethought in one such broad debate, so I will not support such amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I probably won't say anything new if I say that Annex 2 is the essence of this law and that Annex 2 would say, it would say, what are the absolute wages for individual professions and professional groups, to say what are the interrelationships between salaries and possible progress, to say what is the lowest and highest salary in individual groups, to say which pay is cross-referenced, and I guess I didn't know what else it meant. Of course, it also means a total amount of wages and so forth. That's the first one. Second. I understand that our greatest responsibility - those we have said so far - is how important it is for unions to participate at this point. If we are to be consistent with our statement, then we must enforce it here. Why? Since any one of us has ever dealt with wages, he knows that pay is not only absolute, but also relative, much more important. Many times more important is whether my neighbor has two tolars more or less than me, than whether I have a thousand or a thousand two. And, of course, the mutual relations that we had on the basis of yesterday's debate and some amendments, where, not to offend, colleagues and colleagues, I say, it is not the fault of either the proposers or the chairman of the committee or of us Members: we all worked under pressure yesterday that we would like a final report to be prepared on the basis of which we could start working on the content of the law. That is why I claim with certainty that I did not know what they meant for all the proposals myself, and I would hope to assume that there might have been someone there at a committee meeting who did not know about all the proposals they meant. Therefore, I think it would be most correct for only one amendment to Table 2, namely to delete the 66th, 67th and 68th classes of payments, which we have already agreed on in Annex 1. On the other hand, to really instruct the government to study thoroughly, look at what - any increase or reduction ratio means to tell what individual partners think about each other, if we want to ensure their future cooperation. However, if we do not want to ensure future cooperation through a collective public sector agreement, but we will continue to determine everything, in the same way as now that everyone will have their own advocate, then I think it will be bad. There's something else I'd like to say. I do not want Mr Moge to think or claim that I am against teachers in education and education. No, indeed, Mr Mogue, I am just afraid that it is not possible to stay at this point, because then someone will talk about doctors, but we have already talked about them; who will talk about police officers, customs officers and others, and we have already talked about them; who will talk about judges who have their demands, we have already talked about them. And there's someone else and things are going to start to intertwine between us, and we're not going to know how to end them. Therefore, it is my personal opinion that I would do the most important thing right to this law at the most important point of view, that indeed - I apologize to the Minister for perhaps not being the kindest word I will say this time, but I say it sincerely and with a good wish - that the Government would have a position towards this third reading, but that it would be justified by mutual arguments and comparisons, that a higher-than-higher mass and relationship would also be justified, because sometimes, I would say, a person feels that, because of the desire for the law to be adopted, even in a short time, we are slightly complemented by the fact that I will not say anything worse, my views. Therefore, if no guidance is adopted to limit ourselves in Table 2 to the deletion of the first three highest classes, I will not vote in favour of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u127	Now the replicas have Mr Lavrinc, Moge and Bohinc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. In any case, the offer of the colleague Runca seems to be inconclusive. And I don't think it's a good signal from this house either. I'll tell you why. First of all, look, we accepted Article 52 as we did. We have already introduced certain laws there, such as the Ombudsman and so on, there are still some of those where we thought, not like the government that sent us here, because we did not think so, on the committee that it is more to lead governments than to lead, say, the Supreme Court, to be the President of the Supreme Court, to be an ombudsman in this country of Slovenia, we felt that it was not entirely appropriate for what the Prime Minister is doing. And that, as far as my behavior is concerned, is the way it is in the world. Therefore, of course, the amendment you have under number 3 has been drafted. Is that the luckiest thing, is that the best thing and so forth, I'm not gonna say, no way. Undoubtedly, it is a particularly important issue to discuss, but I would not discuss it here in advance, to be discussed by the government, but, of course, by the social partners - the area where we discussed it, education and education. It was disturbing for us some and for me still to jump for so many classes in these art professions. In fact, if someone is a great artist, tell me where the obstacle is to go to the Milan Rock or to Vienna and so on and so on and in one evening to earn the salary of my prime minister. That is how I think that with such small, small actions, parachutes and stones, we have launched the beach and now there are appetites everywhere. Look how red it is. And I don't think it's serious, it's not the state-of-the-art attitude of us Members. On the one hand, we have adopted the budget, we have accepted it even for two years - we find that the economy is being held prisoner under the burden of this public sphere, the warnings are coming from the economy, that it is not going any longer, so it is not possible to give it here - because it is not one way or another. I would like to point out this once again: today is another reading, it is only about what kind of message we will send from Parliament, 'Ah', they will say, 'look, the Members are on our side, which means the government, we have to give up here, of course then they will remember these, and so on and so on'. For example, the case, the judicial branch of power - they said, only the President of the Supreme Court. No, it's not. There is also a problem with district judges and offenders. As soon as you stretch this harmonica, it's in the middle of harmonica somewhere else than it used to be. And in these things, even though we wish so well, we will have a decree, and there will be anchor, and we will have this contract, and there will be anchor, and so on. With these things, the second reading signal, I think, is wrong at the moment. That is why I am calling for sobriety - and I myself will support this third amendment, because the government will have, as experts will now move with these amendments, what we have adopted and what not, as transparent and coherent as the picture - so the third amendment to Annex 2 and, of course, Article 52, where we have already listed which laws are changing. Anyway, of course, just like Mr Potch and everyone else in here, I expect, of course, that when you come up with a proposal for a third reading law, please don't make fun of us. I myself understood today's chairman that he'd missed it, because when we were fixing the slopes, the dots, the branches, and so on, it was clear - and let's stop bluffing about why we were fixing it. We've been fixing the practical law for the whole thing. But for the third reading, gentlemen, you can't tolerate this unprocessed material in this room. Let the matter come to us, let us say: We stand behind this or fall. And then, of course, we will settle down - I think there is no difference here as well between the position and the opposition. The head won't hurt now those who are this moment, the head can hurt those who will be then. I therefore ask, well, for reason and for good and for a clear message from this Assembly after today's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u130	Thank you very much. First of all, I object to Mr Potsch that his statement, 'application is the essence of the law', is wrong. He's the man who probably knows the real one of us best, but I'm the man who can count. And so in this annex, there are only marginal conditions for which the formula obtained under the law will paint people and their work into one of these payment classes. And it depends on this formula, and on the government's and ministers' negotiations on how much money will be allocated, but not whether someone who is rightly said is prestigious, a little higher or a little lower. Of course, these commodity conditions have a little bearing on it, but the essence of it is law, not these commodity terms, in my opinion. That's why I think that statement was wrong. The second thing is, the esteemed colleague Potsch said with his implementation that ignorance is damaging. His ignorance yesterday, the ignorance of things was that he made the wrong choice. We are now in second treatment and we are people with mistakes, but if I want to make a decision now, I can take - and procedure and colleague Potts is master of procedure - I can take the procedure long enough for people to tell me whether I am doing the right thing or not. Now putting this to third treatment and with a fig in my pocket for an amendment to vote, or for - confirms again that this ignorance is damaging. I know how to define myself. If anyone is in doubt and does not know how to define himself, he may also require a certain time out, on the basis of which he will receive such answers, which will undoubtedly allow him to make a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u131	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I expected a similar debate to develop earlier, but I can see that it is, and it is. Initially, on behalf of the Group of Members, I said that we are not the ones who will write this law and who will also define solutions, but that they are the social partners. Therefore, the debate on these matters is premature here and we are now doing something that is not done in the regulated countries on the subject of wages, work rights and the like. One case and, of course, this will lead to one or another solution. I don't think that's the right approach. I think that this approach, which we have taken in this National Assembly, is bad and will offer unacceptable solutions that will not be implemented in nature, or will be very difficult to implement and will, as a rule, be in breach. That's why I stressed it yesterday. Of course, you all said, "We have until the third reading," but now we're here when we run into dominoes, when one collapses, the second, the third, the fourth, and then this will be a bad solution. I'm glad it came to this. I am also happy about these coalition comments, which are all united, that it is necessary to do so in order to be on the right track, but they are doing badly. Once again, I stress that this is not the right approach, that it is the right approach to wait for a certain degree of coordination between the social partners in addressing these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u133	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss it, please? Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I think it is useful to discuss all three amendments and even this article. For this article is certainly one of the most important, I will not say the most important in this bill, which is now in the second reading. My thinking goes in this direction is my conviction as to how I will define myself in the vote, the following. If we set a minimum wage, which, in my profound belief and expectations, must ensure a decent life for most citizens, not just survival. Once this is done, and if we look at the highest wage within our country's capacity, then the ratio will only automatically come from the calculation. Therefore, I believe that these two, to say the extremes - the lowest and highest wages - are the most important responsibility of us Members for our decision, as we will take and prepare for the third reading. As for this table, which has been studied, we see that, in principle, only certain proposals for certain restrictions arise from these amendments. But they don't solve these relationships if we look at them from one point of view or another, and we're the advocates of a particular one, I'm not going to say a layer, but a certain segment in this range as such. I believe that if we accept this minimum and maximum wage and determine it as such, we will probably also create certain relationships or proportions between individual chorizotals resulting from this. Once again, I have not observed a specific amendment, but any level of payment grade reduction would be included in this proposal. But basic thinking is where we take the money. But this money, if we say we want to raise it, if the segment is what it is, we're going to have to lower it somewhere else. And I made it clear, in the opinion of the Group of Members, that this law is directly linked to our 2004 budget decision. I therefore believe that the government will certainly take into account and continue to negotiate with the social partners, find certain, do not believe a consensus or a final agreement in everything, but, above all, should bring these thoughts or opinions closer to what is acceptable for the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u135	Thank you. Mrs. Possonchev.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u136	Thank you very much. This sheet shows even more differences and disproportionates than those of the little one. I claim and responsibly claim that without [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u137	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u138	A man was ashamed, something like that wouldn't have been in the parliamentary bench. Look where the teachers are. And I claim what has been for centuries that teachers have always been the Dennars of Slovenian society and seems to remain still. But you can do without worry, yet they will raise such that progress will go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u139	Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u140	Thank you very much. So, I must say, Mr Potsch's thinking is very close to me. It coincides with what the minister said, not because - it's not why I'm close - but because I think it would be wise to get more information, as I understood my colleague Potræ. And as I understand the Minister, that we are prepared, that the government is ready, and that, at least as I have understood this promise, will, until the third reading, prepare all the consequences of these movements, such or otherwise. Because, after all, we need to know that there are also movements on the list that we have, or movements that the proposalr agrees with, because he has already assembled them, but there are movements; all that red up here, it's not now, it's a proposal, it's a wish, it's supposed to be, it's easy. And also the amendments we adopted yesterday on the Internal Policy Committee are the ideas of the members of this committee, which should be supported by a majority. It's the same rank. I can't separate here what you proposed and painted red and what we accepted yesterday on the Internal Policy Committee. Both, on the one hand, are the Government's wishes, on the other hand, the wishes of individual Members, or majority support, on the Internal Policy Committee. That is why I think it would be most prudent at this point if I could - but I do not propose procedurally - because this needs to be understood what this would mean procedurally. If we were to essentially make a decision on this matter, which we will anyway, in the third reading and in the third reading, with all the information that we will receive, decide whether the Government's proposal for a raise is, I will now take the case as a mere court case for so many and so many classes up, and what we wrote for the teachers, for the mayors, for the cops and customs, and I don't know what we've already changed on the board, or whether it is - because it's necessary to harmonise, all those things that go down, and those that remain, and I should therefore stand in the final stage but some calculation and some money. This is how I understand the Minister's introductory thinking on this table and his colleague's proposal and I think it's the right way and the best way to do it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the amendments and Annex 2. The amendment tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr. Mohet shall be placed in second place, i.e. under order number 2. By voting first on the amendment under order number 1, then on the amendment of Mr Mohet and the group of Members, and then on the order of the amendments as they are written. However, I apologize for forgetting to give my word to the Minister at that time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Otherwise, I have calculated that it will be possible to define itself according to individual points of the amendment to Annex 2, and I will use it now to identify myself on a case-by-case basis. Before that, I would like to reiterate my position because obviously I was not clear enough about the Government's support for this proposal. This proposal creates the relations that we have reached in our discussions with the social partners so far and for which we know that we can assume such a relationship with responsibility. It should explicitly oppose the amendment which raises, that is, under point 1, officials in local communities, because this means an increase, while at the same time it means a proposal higher than that which is bullous-headed in relation to the law on local self-government and which is included in the amendment. I strongly suggest that you do not support the amendment under point 2 today for the reason that this will be discussed in the coming days with education and education unions and because it is not clear what the movements proposed in this point 2 mean. I would like to reiterate, however, that after negotiations with school unions, we will definitely come up with a revised table in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u143	Thank you. There was a misunderstanding between the Minister and me that the Minister thought he would have the opportunity to speak separately with each amendment after the Members had finished. That's why I also said "close the debate" and, of course, that was a mistake and I apologize for it. So please, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to replicate, you can come in. Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u144	I'm afraid there's something missing from the minister's haste. It's the first amendment, so he probably didn't listen to you at the time, so now it's an amendment talking about raising the highest pay grade for local officials to 60. And he was against it. Then he spoke of the second amendment, which would be the amendment of Mr. Mohet. And then we have the third amendment, which is the amendment of the committee, but it has exactly the same objective. So that's 42 and 43. So, if I understand from the content of the Minister, it is against the first, second and third amendments, but it is nothing against the fourth, because there is a signal how to correct these top authorities in this country.If I understand correctly, I would be grateful to be told.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u145	Mr. Mogue, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Minister, you have not answered the essential question. What led you to go to seven classes in court and culture, and to education and education that had no wages, but education and education were the lowest for 3. That's the first question. Second question. On the basis of what you as our Members are now making in a corner, it is that we cannot make the right decision on the basis of your explanations. And I ask you, before you get and speak on behalf of the government about supporting this amendment, if, otherwise, a "time out" day or two or three, we can decide, because you are offering us that you will make the right decisions after we have made the second reading, and we will give it to you in the third reading. And I just don't believe it anymore. So two questions. First, why is there 773 and second, secondly, do you need a day, two or maybe a few hours to have the government's opinion on these amendments that have been tabled, whether this is your personal interpretation of these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u147	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u148	First answer to my colleague Lavrinc. He correctly interpreted my point of view. This is about opposition where there are explicit increases. And this applies to municipal officials, i.e. local officials, and to both amendments relating to education. We do not have a government mandate to support any increase at this stage. This does not preclude us from preparing a different table for third reading with new calculations, new reflections, new coordination. Now to the question of the honourable Member. I explained in my explanation the position on this amendment of Mojet, namely that one of the criteria was the equivalence of all three branches of power. And this is the reason for the different classification of the judiciary, with the explicit remark that it is only the highest officials of the judiciary. This note is also in the explanatory memorandum. As far as culture is concerned, we have also followed the criterion of equating the so-called top-notch, professional professions. In short, we followed some kind of policy. This compares top professions in culture with researchers, scientists, higher education teachers, specialists, doctors and so on. These were conduct guides.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u149	Thank you. We can close now. It's a replica. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u150	If I understand correctly, more difficult to "get" means that you support top-notch experts in the judiciary and in culture, but not in education.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u151	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u152	Well, Mr. Mogue misunderstood me. It's not about withdrawing support from any top-notch experts. It is about taking into account new arguments, new calculations, new harmonisations in the third reading proposal, and coming up with a table that is likely to take this into account. At the moment, I do not have a mandate, on behalf of the Government, to give support to any increase. And please accept this with understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u153	Thank you. I conclude the debate, please, and we are moving on to a decision. We decide first, we vote on the amendment we have on page 21 below, that is to say to Annex 2, under order number 1. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 12 votes against 31 members and Members of Parliament. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment under number one is not accepted. Second amendment, this is the amendment of the Group of Members with the first signed by Mr Mohet. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 19 voted against 26. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Well, and now we're going to vote on the amendments, just as they are written in sequence. So the previous amendment becomes sequence number 3, the previous amendment under number 2 is now under number 3, starting on page 22. So let's vote, please, on the amendment under order number three. Of the 52 present, 10 to 35. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Follow the amendment under order number 4 [[It used to be 3, now it's 4]] . Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 35 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. On page 23, we still have the last amendment to this annex. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And we are now voting on Annex 2 as a whole. Aya, I'm sorry! Good-bye, procedure. Annex 3. We only have one amendment here. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I'm putting an amendment to the vote under order number one. Let's vote. Of the 52 present, 36 members and Members voted against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted; the annex has been deleted. We have thus concluded the debate and decision-making on the amendments. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Who wants a word? Since no one wants to say a word, we are moving on to decide on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote please! Of the 51 present, 38 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. The title of the law. So, a debate on the title of the law. Does anyone want to discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and let us vote on the title. Let's vote! Of the 54 present, 44.3 votes. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against three.]] I understand the address has been accepted. I also put to the debate the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone want to discuss this decision? Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u154	I also propose a procedural decision on the third reading debate in the sense that Article 194, second paragraph, shall apply in the sense that the debate shall be considered at a regular or extraordinary meeting not earlier than 7 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u155	We have heard the procedural decision proposed by the government. The text I have read, i.e. the proposal for a decision, which reads, I repeat: "The proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." This one's the first one. Then there is the proposal proposed by Mr Minister. So let us first vote on this first proposal. Once again, the draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a simple proposal for a decision. Let's vote! Of the 52 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. And we have another conclusion. "The National Assembly shall carry out the third examination of the law on the basis of the second paragraph of Rule 194 of the Rules of Procedure." Can we vote on this? Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. Additional conclusions are in order. I'd like to warn you that we have four conclusions. First of all, we have three additional decisions of the Committee on Internal Policy in Material dated 15.4.2002. That's three. Then we have another additional decision in the supplementary report of the Internal Policy Committee. Tose says we have four additional conclusions in these two reports. I am opening a debate on all these additional conclusions. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Let's start with the first additional decision. We vote on the first additional decision. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 13 voted against 23 Members and Members of Parliament. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it that no further decision has been taken. Second additional decision. I'm sorry, it's obviously some kind of disagreement, maybe. Procedurally, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u156	The Committee met before the Government sent a supplementary proposal for a second reading and these decisions were consumed in additional amendments and proposals that the Committee subsequently completed or formulated and have already been adopted in the course of this debate. This is how we now accept something that has already been consumed during the adoption phase. But [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u157	We have ruled, given the formal text, that - where it says, "directly for the third reading" and so on - these are the formal decisions of the committee that I do not have the right to modify, withdraw or adjust in my own way. This is what the Committee has decided, and I can only follow what the Committee has done. If anyone else thinks otherwise, let the board remove these additional conclusions and we'll save some pressure on the keys. However, we are in the midst of a vote, so I am forgiving all those who are also annoyed by this disharmony. We're at the other conclusion. We're voting. 43 present. Repeat the vote, another time. We're voting. 45 present. The time is 16.38 plus 10 is 16.48. We'll resume at 4:48 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u158	I'll vote for the third time. We will vote for the third time on the second additional decision of the Internal Policy Committee. Please come to the hall. By the way, after the extraordinary meeting, we shall continue with the regular meeting. This is the law on state administration, then the law on public agencies and so on. But not everything today, please. Not all of it today. I don't know where my fellow Members and colleagues are now. We therefore move to a vote on the second additional decision of the Internal Policy Committee. Let's vote for the third time, please. Let's vote! Of the 51 present, 37 votes against 2. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] The additional decision is adopted. It's an additional decision. We're voting. Excuse me. There's no debate. Therefore, only an explanation of vote may be given to the third decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u159	I would like to explain my vote, Mr Vice-President, against this, because the content of this third decision is already being consumed in the amendment that we have already adopted today. Therefore, such a decision would be uninhabitable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u160	That's what we see. Thank you. Now we can vote. Let's vote. Of the 46 present, 2.35 votes. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 35.]] No additional decision has been taken. We now have another conclusion in this second supplementary report. We are therefore voting on a fourth additional decision. Let's vote, please! 42 present. We're voting next time, please. A little more attention. Let's vote next time! 42 present. At 17.02 we shall proceed with the third vote. If there's anything you can do to avoid a 10-minute break, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u161	Your Honor! Thirdly, we will vote on the proposal for an additional decision by Mr Miran Potrč, who proposes that the National Assembly propose to the Government that the third reading prepare an amendment to the transitional provisions of the draft law, which will ensure that, within four years of the enactment of the law, the ranges between the highest and lowest wages will be reduced to 1:10. We are voting on this proposal by the Committee, which was adopted by Mr Potræ, on a proposal. Wait a minute! Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. There were 23 votes against 6. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item with an extraordinary session and also 16 extraordinary meetings. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government very much for their cooperation, including the representative of the secretariat. Thank you very much.
