ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good morning! I begin the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Can I ask the hall to calm down so that colleagues and colleagues can take their seats? Thank you very much. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings of the National Assembly due to other obligations cannot be attended by the following colleague and colleagues: colleague Ašič between 14 and 20 p.m., after 16 p.m. there will be no colleagues of Cimperman, colleague of Čeligo and Janša will be missing all day as well as colleague Rupar, during the 15th and 30th hours, colleague Kontič, from 17th hours onwards colleague Kopušar, colleague of Marsič from 14th hours onwards, from 16.30 p.m. Comrade Vizjak will be missing after 15 hours and 30 minutes, and colleague of Cvetka Zalokar Orazem from 17th hour. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the 25th extraordinary meeting, I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mag. Anton Ropa and candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers in his government. I'll be there when they come into the hall, and I'll say hello. Before that, we will set the agenda for the 25th extraordinary session. The draft agenda is prepared in accordance with Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to it on 18 December this year. I have not received a motion to withdraw individual points. But we are moving on to proposals for enlargement. With regard to the 2nd item of the agenda, a group of eighteen colleagues, with Dr Bayuk's first-signed colleague, submitted a request to vote on the College's decision to consider the amendment and amendment of the Law on Medical Services following an urgent procedure. I therefore propose to the assembly that the agenda be extended by addressing this requirement. You received this request from our colleagues and colleagues on the bench. As you may have found, some of you who are more meticulous have two signatures. In this case, it would not be sufficient for the quorum, so a colleague of mags. The visa replaces its signature, filled out the quorum of the eighteenths, which is a condition for the request, which is therefore commercially valid and can be decided on. Would representatives of the parliamentary groups like to speak on this request? Yeah. My colleague Tsukati for the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Three minutes, mate Tsukati, to explain this request. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. The Group of Members, respectable, suggests that the amendment of the Medical Service Act be adopted on a regular basis. Let's base that. Not even six months since this National Assembly adopted the first amendment of the Medical Service Act on the door to the nose. Free of charge was warned by doctors, hospital directors, that this would cause unnecessary and severe complications in providing uninterrupted health care. It was in agreement with all three medical organisations that this should be resolved in a different way. For free, our legislative services have been warned that the novelty is contrary not only to the European Union directives but also to the labour law and that such things are dealt with through the internal acts of the employer, the collective agreement and the employment contract. Weak six months later, when we passed the contested law, we receive from the same proposer a proposal for amendments to the so-adopted novels on the basis of a justification to prevent the serious, irreparable consequences of organising uninterrupted healthcare. And they're supposed to be taking changes on their noses again, without an agreement with the contractors, and without respect for the legislation. Mr Minister assured the Committee that doctors had never worked as closely with the Ministry as they do now and that the medical organisations had the opportunity to convey their opinion. That's right. On 10 December, medical organisations received two different versions of the novel, noting that they could give their opinion within 24 hours. And they did, in 24 hours. But to the government and then to the National Assembly, the proposer forwarded a third version of the novel. Such an extremely offensive attitude cannot produce good fruit for the medical community, but a social agreement that is a prerequisite for the successful functioning of health care in difficult situations. As long as we're looking at waiting times, the health situation is really hard. The President of the Supreme Court, Mr Mitja Deisinger, could say how and how many talks and coordinations are needed to support the measures to help reduce judicial backlogs. Similarly, in the field of health, dialogue is needed to reduce waiting periods and to involve the entire profession, all health care and health care in solving the problems in which our health care has gone. Therefore, the Group of Members proposes to the National Assembly not to support the urgency of the procedure and thus give the Minister time to establish the necessary dialogue. The pressure of the deadline, 1.1.2003, is also not in control, for example, because it is only in January that we will begin to consider amendments to the Law on Safety and Health at Work, with the deadline from 31.12.2002 to 2003. And even if the hospitals were to organize their on-call service for a month after the novel was already adopted, the world would not fail. At least other nuisances of July's adopted novels would have been shown, and the shames that we have accepted on our noses are not being corrected by this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. Does one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? He wants a colleague of Brenčič for the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Would anyone else like a word then? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Brenčič will be the last. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, of course, we agree with the proponents in a variety of ways, including with the introductory explanation of the proponents. It is also necessary to establish a suitable partnership dialogue where it is necessary to establish this dialogue in that sector or in that area to which this point is currently applicable, and we also expect this to happen. The fact is that the law is submitted by emergency procedure as amendments to the law in these two open articles. And the fact is that if we decide otherwise that we are going with this bill's proposal into a regular procedure, we can do nothing but discuss and decide on the basis of these two open articles. We cannot go further in the area of the last novel or in the entire medical service law, as necessary. Therefore, there is virtually nothing more that we can do in terms of urgency. The fact is, however, that if no one else is exposed more or less to all health-care providers or directors from 1.1.2003. And if anyone else needs to do something for them. That is why we will vote against this proposal in the Group of Members because we know that we cannot substantively improve the purpose of the proposer if we follow a regular procedure, and we can certainly do something on time as long as we follow the urgent procedure. We will also propose that this item remain as the second item on the original reference to the agenda, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Medical Service Act, immediately after the appointment of a government. Since after the timing that we received, this point is at the very end, tomorrow afternoon or tomorrow, on Friday’s working day, and thus we cannot conclude the purpose of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I will now give my word to my colleague Drobnič, who will explain the views of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Given that I will be brief, from my seat on behalf of the Group of Members, I will give my opinion and our proposal. So, we join our fellow Member, Mr Tsukati, who proposed a regular regulatory procedure on behalf of the parliamentary group. The medical service law needs to be changed, even though we've already changed it this year. This points to the fact that the Ministry of Health wants to regulate without proper cooperation with those who still have a bearing on health policy and health care in this country, namely doctors. Therefore, this has not been taken into account and ultimately the victims will actually be patients. Of course, citizens as a whole, because there will be more health care, the effects will be smaller. So the law was ready quickly, these changes, these novels. Therefore, we propose that the matter or the law be changed following a regular procedure.At the time when we begin the next hearing, the social partners and those responsible for this area will have the time to agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. Does any other colleague or colleague wish to speak in favour of the Group's position? Nobody? Comrade Anderlich, please, LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u8	Of course, this proposal is somehow contradictory to what has been said in explanation. Hence, some things need to be changed, looked at, or otherwise, that these issues can be resolved on a regular basis. This law also provides for the amendment of only one article. And if it's on the agenda, then it makes sense by emergency procedure. And that's how the college decided. That is why, of course, I do not think that such a proposal as has been tabled by 18 Members can be accepted. This does not mean that the solution and the way to deal with this issue are right. After all, the Committee on Health, Family and Social Affairs has already drawn up a position. And, of course, when the agenda item is on, we will also consider it. Therefore, I do not believe that this proposal can be accepted, but at the point of content, which, as agreed in the College, will then, as foreseen in the course of time, also be on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. Colleague Peca from the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal, the proposal after a change of procedure. While it is true that this is a quantitative minor change, we or we estimate that it is a substantial change resulting from non-recognition or non-derogation from secondary or tertiary health activities or health services. And it is precisely because of the importance or substantive size of the changes that we propose that the matter should take place in accordance with the normal procedure. Because the very explanation in the report, where it is said that this would prevent difficult remedial consequences in organising continuous healthcare, is a good or sufficient argument for a thorough consideration. And if the National Assembly, of course without procedural complications, finds a hearing to solve or separate the primary from secondary health care, then we estimate that we will also be able to resolve in a normal phase very quickly and very radically this mistake of the Ministry of Health, which was created solely because of the insubordination of doctors in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u11	Does any of the other members of the group want a word? I find that no and that we can go to the vote. We will vote on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. 67 present, 40 for and 22 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 22.]] We've decided on this matter in her favor. So we're going to put it on the agenda. We'll treat it as an A1 item on the agenda. Now we will move on to a decision on the whole agenda. By treating Point 2 as the last. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference and with the addition adopted. Comrade Brenčič, you will propose that, following the adopted agenda, the proposed last item should be placed second. This will be decided by the National Assembly. I'll explain. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u12	Thank you very much. But after the agenda has been adopted?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u13	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u14	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u15	We will therefore first decide on the draft agenda. Since there are differences of opinion as to when the envisaged point 2 should be addressed, I will put this to the vote. First, I will put to the vote a proposal for a agenda. Can I ask my colleagues and colleagues for their attention? We are voting on the agenda, and then we will decide on a time when we will discuss the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the medical service law. 60 present, 51 for and one against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. The National Assembly must now decide when to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Services. My proposal is - please colleagues and colleagues for attention - and I will put this proposal to the vote to see this point as the last. This will allow us to decide, in accordance with the envisaged plan, on a number of items on the agenda, in particular and first on the composition of the new government, and finally to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law. If this proposal is adopted, then the point will be placed last; if the national assembly votes differently in my proposal, we will treat it as point 2. So the decision is clear? Please, we are voting on this point as the last. Please. 70 in attendance, 46 in and 22 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the National Assembly has decided that this point, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Medical Services, will therefore be considered as the last item of the agenda. First, we will move to point A1 – DEFINITIVELY THE REQUESTS OF THE COMPETITION GROUP TO THE DECISION OF THE COLLEGE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL CONGREGATION TO PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE HEALTH SERVICE LAW BY THE CURRENT PROCEDURE, so that this is decided by the National Assembly. As you know, this was decided by the 13th College this month. During the five-day business period, a group of eighteen co-workers and colleagues with a first-signed colleague, Bajuk, submitted an application for a decision to be taken by the National Assembly. I'm asking the proposer, does he want five minutes to explain? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we will vote on the decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act shall be dealt with on an urgent basis." We're voting. 74 in attendance, 48 in and 23 in. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the National Assembly has taken a decision to decide on that law in accordance with an urgent procedure. We're at 1. Agenda items, a proposal for a list of candidates for the appointment of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Before I begin, I will give you a minute's rest to join us for the candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers, and for the Prime Minister, Mag. Anton Rop. I'll be back in a minute. Representatives of the government, candidates for ministers and ministers, Prime Minister, are requested to enter the Chamber. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome you on behalf of the National Assembly. Before we move on to point 1, I see that colleague Jerovšek wants a procedural proposal - or a question? Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidates for ministers in the new Slovenian government! Mr President, on the basis of the provisions of Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the parliamentary groups be given a double time to discuss such an important item in the agenda as the appointment of ministers of the new government. Actually, that's what I'm basing it on. In the SDS Group, we believe that the appointment of a government is absolutely as important as the treatment of the state budget, the rebalancing and the interpolation. In view of the "hearings" that took place during a very narrow period of time for consideration, it has been shown that we have before us a team that is extremely publicized, whose programme is extremely confusing and which does not in any way guarantee to the Slovenians that without a thorough discussion, without a thorough review, we can trust that it will be able to achieve these important objectives which are before the Slovenians and which are before every citizen. Of course, we base our proposal on the fact that it is envisaged in the case of interpolation, that the debate should be extended to double time, and interpellation is the discharge of the Minister, discharge and appointment of the Minister [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] However, they must always take place in the formal same procedure. [[...]] It is therefore quite clear that, for the appointment of sixteen ministers, Members or Members' Group may not have half the time available to them than for the discharge of one Member. That would make no sense. In addition, he is even an LDS Member, ruling party [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u17	Comrade Jerovšek, your time has passed. Please, if you can finish the thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u18	I have already proposed, announced an interpellation against one candidate, by formally considering both the interpolation and the appointment of ministers. [[...]] I think this argument is fully justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u19	Comrade Jerovšek, as I have listened, very carefully, your proposal, I would ask you for the same attention in my explanation as to why I reject it. I don't care if anyone today gets the impression that the National Assembly, by procedure, is denying anyone the right to speak at the time he wants to about the subject of today's discussion about the appointment of a new government. Why? In the last college, I asked the leaders of the parliamentary groups how long it would take for them to say their views in peace and without any restrictions. The leaders of the parliamentary groups have communicated their wishes to me and I have taken them into account in the work plan. As much as your Group of Members wanted time, it has time. Comrade Jerovšek! If it is disputed that I, as President, should limit your request, then the State Assembly should now decide, within the framework of the article you are referring to. I didn't do it. I've given you as much time as you asked. The National Assembly will probably have enough time in approximately five hours to decide on the Prime Minister's argument to appoint or reject his cabinet. I will therefore reject your request or proposal and refer to the Rules of Procedure and to an agreement. By proposing to continue with the agenda item, this is a proposal for a list of candidates for the appointment of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 229(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, within 15 days of his election, submit to the President of the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of ministers. The Prime Minister presented the Council of Ministers to me in a letter dated 12 December this year. It proposes Dr. Vlad Dimovski for Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Dusan Marble for Minister of Finance, Dr. Teo Petrin for Minister of Economy, Dr. Paul Gantar for Minister of Information Society, mag. France Buta for Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Andrejo Richter for Minister of Culture, Dr Bohinca for Minister of Home Affairs, Dr Anton Grisold for Minister of Defence, Mag. Mr Janez Kopač for Minister of Environment, Space and Energy, Mag. Mr Ivan Bizjak, Minister of Justice, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Minister of Transport, Dr Slavko Gabra, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Dušan Kebra, Minister of Health, Dr Dimitri Rupl, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Janez Potočnik, Minister of State without a department in charge of European affairs, and mag. Zdenko Kovac for Minister without a department responsible for regional development. I'm asking the Prime Minister, mag. Anton Rope, does he want to further substantiate his proposal? [[He does.]] You have the floor, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u20	Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr President! At the presentation of the candidates for ministers and ministers, you have further become acquainted with the government's work programme in the coming two-year period. I believe that the list of candidates for ministers I have proposed is of good quality, which also shows that candidates received adequate support when presented to the boards in the National Assembly, some without a vote against. The list I proposed contains names that have already been in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, names that are known and whose work we know well. Among them are new names, names that undoubtedly mean strengthening the government's work, both in the financial, regional and school areas. Your Honor! The task, goals and challenges ahead of us are great. Many may wonder if there is not enough time to achieve all the goals we have set ourselves. The answer to this is clear: we will be able to do this in a joint and coordinated way. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me once again to stress only some of the key tasks that the government will pay special attention to in the coming period. Undoubtedly, this is the fight against inflation, regional development and regionalisation, stable economic growth, stable public finances, employment, social security, science, education, culture, effective integration into the European Union and NATO and, finally, better, better quality of life for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that the list I have presented is appropriate, good and ensures that we will get a modern, flexible and more efficient government. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, I propose that you support the proposed list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, candidates and candidates presented themselves to our competent working bodies and answered our questions. It follows from the opinions of the competent bodies that all presentations by the candidates were appropriate. You have received opinions from committees and committees. Some presidents of working bodies wish to further explain the views of their committees or committees. First of all, the chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, Comrade Jelko Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Prime Minister, candidates and candidates for ministers! On Monday, the Foreign Policy Committee heard a candidate for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who presented his work and answered all the questions raised. The Committee then voted and adopted, with 13 votes and one against, a decision that the Committee on Foreign Policy considered that the presentation of the views and views of the candidate for Foreign Minister Dimitri Rupl was appropriate. Since I speak, I would like to say another sentence or two about the second hearing we had on Tuesday, when we had the opportunity to listen to the candidate for the Minister for European Affairs. After discussion, we adopted 18 votes in favour and no objection to the conclusion that the Committee on Foreign Policy considered that the presentation of the views and views of the candidate for a Minister without a director responsible for European affairs, Dr Janez Potočnik, was appropriate. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Economic Committee wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Chairman of the Finance Board? [[Not at all.]] Chairman of the Health Committee? [[No, no, ……]] Does any other president or chairman of committees or committees want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then, in accordance with the time frame requested by the leaders of the parliamentary groups to discuss their colleagues, we will hold a debate on the appointment of a new government. I will give the floor first to the representatives of the groups of Members. My colleague Ivan Kebrič will present the position of the DeSUS Group and I will give the floor to my colleague, Dr Bayuk. First, my friend Kebrich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Mr President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister and your team! We have listened carefully in the parliamentary group when you presented to us as a mandate-holder your programme and the tasks that this government is expected to carry out by the end of the term of office. Today, after hearings in the home work bodies, you represent your ministerial body, the members who will be responsible for each ministerial area, the departments and we believe in the parliamentary group that you have chosen a team that gives us the confidence that each of you, as Prime Minister, will coordinate these departments and the joint work and trust of the national assembly as a government, will execute those laws in the way that the legislative body will adopt our national assembly. Therefore, we think it is right that you have presented us with such a team that inspires our confidence that you have presented us with the resources and their tasks, which we will carefully observe, not only but also to control that you will carry them out as you have solemnly promised us here. In the Group of Members, we believe that this team of yours is appropriate, and that is why our Group will vote in favour of such a proposal as you have presented it to us. We want good cooperation. We want honesty, we want better communication on relations, not only the national assembly, but also the parliamentary groups. That is why we wish you success, but be aware that we are the legislative authority and that you are the executive authority that must carry out this, which we will conclude and legislate in the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. Now he'll get the word of a fellow magician. It's a trifle. He will present the views of the New Slovenia Group. He's got a buddy named Potch behind him. First of all, Comrade Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u26	Dear colleagues and colleagues, prime minister, candidates for ministers and others! The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia presented a list of candidates for the appointment of ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia who presented themselves to the National Assembly. The presentation was contrary to the Rules of Procedure, as more than two meetings of the Committee were held at the same time, making the work of the less represented opposition more difficult. The question is also raised because of this regularity of voting. Members of government parties participated in the majority only at the conclusion of the meetings, i.e. in the vote, which is a sign that everything was obviously already agreed in advance. The LDS and its satellites understood the presentations only as an overpriced ritual and a waste of time, which must be done only because of the eyes of the public or the cameras; otherwise, everything was going on in a pre-arranged scenario in which we Members and people were conceived only as statisticians. A future government team has been appointed by the prime minister for the composition of the government, with the exception of ministers for education, finance and an additional ministry for regional development, so there is no expectation of fresh wind. Compared to other countries in Europe, which are much larger, we will have the most ministries and also the most ministers in Slovenia with the incoming government. Each LDS-led government outfit is more expensive and luxurious, as it has every time a number of new ministerial cities have come with or without ballots. Otherwise, they are both a very high cost for taxpayers, which shows how LDS understands power - as setting up loyal people, regardless of what they want, know and have the will to act responsibly. In addition to ministers, we have received from the last Drnovskov government a number of ministerial councillors who have no jurisdiction with an extremely high salary and are not accountable to anyone. They didn't do anything either, because the people don't know them at all. The Minister for Regional Development is now in the process of becoming an office, agency and, of course, new civil servants. The effects of this rule do not lead to the progress of our country. The growing debt, the financial gaps cannot be monitored anymore, the monopolising of the wealth of the narrow strata of people into high prices, inflation does not go down, the budget deficit is rising, social distribution is expanding and the bottomless situation of the growing population is also growing. Therefore, it is not surprising that statistics have identified a decrease of more than 20% in bread consumption over the last year. Citizens also do not believe in official statistics that the cost of living has risen by 7% in one year. In view of the above, Slovenia has no prospect of anything new. We expect the continuation of the movement of continuity, which will continue to work to strengthen the positions of the holders of the previous regime, to erase the traces of "Takkuan" privatisation and deepening the differences between the rich elite who grabs without shame and the poor majority. The second rate of capital accumulation will continue, i.e. internal ownership, based on the example of Elan’s managers, who, at the expense of billions of state resources, write-offs of claims and dispossessed creditors, owns a huge formerly state-owned property without giving a tolar out of their own pocket. In doing so, it avoids paying taxes with skilled manoeuvres, and it hangs the poor people. The government's listed anti-crime offices are just sand in the eyes. The Minister, who is running for office, does Pilate's hands and assumes responsibility for the current prime minister. How this government team will oversee and prevent the continuation of wild property and crime if it has been watched and seen for 10 years and done nothing!? How can citizens expect a better school system if the candidate for minister does not answer the question of how to proceed with a nine-year-old in municipalities where there are no conditions for it? How do you introduce plural school? Last but not least, private schools, which we are also reminded of by the Constitutional Court, are interested in the ideological supervision of the government team and the continuation of the separation of Slovenian society. How can we trust the Minister of Labour, who talks about a future knowledge society involving the unemployed in training and education programmes, this year has reduced by more than 60 per cent? The University of Ljubljana provided 2 billion tolar investments two or three years ago. Only 780 million more this year. Gentlemen, we will not compete in Europe with easily accessible or false diplomas, but with knowledge. Our university is sinking. In the area of culture, however, this government team gives an emphasis to the alternative scene. How should we believe the candidate for Minister of Economy, who states in her presentation that she has succeeded in reducing the differences between regions? At the same time, the UMAR clearly states in its report on the implementation of regional policy that differences have increased. Of course, every citizen knows and feels. For nothing, we expect the rule of law if there are 550 thousand pending cases in the courts. And if our victims have been waiting for 12 years for their property to be returned, while the international courts have accumulating lawsuits against our country. On Slovenian television, the government's founding officer allowed himself a cynical statement that the opposition had excellent opportunities to ask questions, but if it did not take advantage of them, it was her fault. This statement by the mandate-holder speaks of his democratic culture. You're saying you're up for some Finnish model. This is not a Finnish model, but in the 21st century it is a cloned model of SZDL, which you are applying to LDS disguised as a former avant-garde customer. Commissioner, let us tell you that your candidates for ministers have answered questions in general, with some exceptions, and some have not answered at all. That is why we are again referring to some of those questions that we have not been able to answer. Let's take a look at some. What will you do to ensure that the management contract is not concluded with legal persons, but with individuals in order to ensure payment of taxes and personal responsibility? What are you going to do with your tax debts? It's a fundamental condition of equality before the law. Paying non-discipline destroys the economy. How do you plan to deal with this problem? From what means did you secure the purchase of the plane? How much of this has already been paid and from what title, budget items? How are you going to deal with the medical chaos you've caused by reckless acts and start settling conflicts? How will you deal with regulating the health care providers' network? How do you plan to proceed with drug prices? There is a closed round of offers, as they have increased by 100% over the last few years and the number of recipes is not larger. How do you determine about Slovenian hamlets on the left bank of Dragonje? Will you prepare a new border agreement with Croatia? How do you comment on the regime of the border between Croatia and Montenegro, and what could be used to determine the border between Slovenia and Croatia? How would you revive a small-border agreement, particularly in the Gulf of Piran, where another regime passed through this agreement, which was put in place by or agreed upon by former Prime Minister Drnovšek and thereby violated the legal powers? Why has integration in the training and job preparations for unemployed people been so severely reduced? How will you stop the rapid rise in the unemployment of people with disabilities, where you have ready measures? Why did you not take the status of a disabled company to those entities that do not meet the legal requirements? When and how do you plan to implement a modern disability detection system and conditions for social transfers and effective and good rehabilitation? I've only listed a few questions that would be worth answering. Otherwise, we do not believe that the answers to the questions will affect the decision of the LDS and your coalition partners. And since the work of the ministerial team is sooner than not negative and there are no signs that the situation will change in the future, even more so, the problems of the Slovenian economy, finance and social policy will be exacerbated, so we will not support your nominations for ministers, Mr mandate-holder.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u27	This was the position of the New Slovenia Group. The position of the United List of Social Democrats will now be presented by colleague Potrč. And after him, my friend Anderlich. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers! Mr President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! In the United List of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a government composition, as proposed by the President. The proposal for the composition of ministers and ministers is a quality, educational level envying, as more than half of ministers and ministers have a doctorate in science. Everyone has a rich and successful work and life experience, except for one, all in the executive branch. It is also acceptable, even though the sex composition is inadequate. The Prime Minister has also taken this aspect into account in the proposed replacement, which we consider to be a plus. Presentations of candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers were successful. This is not because of the vote, as it is normal for coalition Members and Members of Parliament to support them and that members of the opposition voted against them as a rule. This is also the task of one group and another in Parliament, as is the task and expectation that the coalition supports and believes in its government's programmes and that the opposition does not support and does not believe it. The question is only about cultures, how individual assessments and behaviours are formed. So we are assessing for a good presentation of ministers and ministers, not because of the vote, but because of the content. They showed an in-depth knowledge of the issues and tasks of the ministries for which they are running, successful work, if they were already in office, and clear priorities and tasks for further work. That is why it is for all those who claim - even from the opposition species - that this has often been heard - that they would particularly like to see well-defined tasks and priorities achieved to the greatest extent possible. It is for this reason that we believe that the coalition Members and Members, who may be just a little closer to monitoring and knowing the functioning of the government and the ministries, must point out that, despite good work so far, there are still some possibilities for improving the functioning of the government and the relations of the government-state assembly. And a few words about that. First time. The quality of the laws that the government provides for the adoption of the National Assembly is sometimes not appropriate. The most clear evidence for this claim is the frequent and extensive changes and additions that these proposals experience in the adoption process, in large part and in scope, on the proposal of the Government and the competent ministries. It is even worse that many ministers, only in order to be adopted by law, also agree to controversial proposals and solutions, or vice versa, with the same scale and non-critically in very short time to advocate completely diametrically opposed proposals. This is also the reason that it is not so rare when recently passed laws are proposed to amend and supplement, often precisely those articles that have been discussed before, and we have not been prepared to listen to such a warning and proposals. This is all important now, in the new legislative procedure. Therefore, I suggest that you consider this warning from the candidate and the candidates for ministers and ministers, because you cannot expect that the coalition Members for you and instead of you, on your proposals and expectations, will change and complement, at night and our own reflection, the under-thinking projects in the course of the legislative process. Another time. For relations between the government and the National Assembly, perhaps even more for coalition Members than for the opposition, it is of paramount importance that the proposals put forward are well-founded. That there are indisputable reasons why it is necessary to adopt or amend the law, that there are indisputable objectives and proposed solutions, that alternatives are examined and that the effects or consequences are clearly assessed. It is not so rare that such an approach is not guaranteed. We have also heard many times so far, and we have written down the Government's call that the European Union's demands already constitute a sufficient necessity for the adoption of a law. These are needs, but these facts must not be an alibi for marriage projects, not for their adoption by emergency procedure. Very often, emergency procedures are required because the ministry or government has not come up with the problems in time and has proposed solutions when it requires the consent of the State Assembly overnight. Thirdly, coordination in the government, including greater cooperation between ministries, even less reflection on its own tasks and responsibilities and more shared responsibility for the government's functioning than the whole, is essential for the greater quality and efficiency of the government's work. We don't feel like that's enough. Respectable candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers, Mr. Prime Minister! Politics is the art of possibility. This also applies to the formation of a coalition and its programmes, and this is finally the case with the selection of ministers and ministers. We do not agree with each action so far, with every opinion and position of each minister or minister. Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats have also been dissatisfied with the conduct or conduct of individual ministers and ministers so far. However, this does not mean that we would vote against these ministers or ministers, even less, of course, against the government as a whole. No, but as we have done so far, we will strive even more to change our positions or the actions of these ministers or ministers in order to find a common language. It is precisely the search for consensus, the coordination of positions, the search for common solutions, the willingness to cooperate, and the compromises that are necessary, that should become, in general and to a much greater extent, our common orientation and our efforts, not what happens to us frequently, not only in politics, not only here in the national assembly, even in public life in general, even in journalism, even in communication between stakeholders, that extremes, extreme positions, confrontations and the creation of objective facts are increasingly prevalent. Let us therefore do more, including by our example, including by acting in the National Assembly, the Government, to further improve and deepen the quality of dialogue, tolerance and efforts for a reasoned confrontation of opinions and cooperation. Let this also be one of the leaders and objectives of the new government. We will also be able to contribute to this in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Now I give my word to my colleague Anderlich. He will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u30	Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the Government because we believe that what has been presented in individual presentations and in the opening act of the Prime Minister is sufficient guarantee that the Slovenian Government will be able to carry out successfully the tasks ahead of it during the second half of this mandate period, complete the processes that have been set up for this mandate period, and eventually the possibilities will be created for us to deal with the laws and other problems that are ahead of the national assembly, and of course I believe that they will be under critical review throughout the rest of the mandate. That is why we can trust them and vote for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. The position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by my colleague Peče, after which I will give the floor to my colleague Štemberger from the SMS Group. First, my friend Peca. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. A few speakers ahead of me started hearings and referred the Commissioner to hearings.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u33	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u34	Therefore, according to our assessment, these talks with ministers, which some of you consider to be "hearing" or hearings or quality interviews, of course have not achieved an effect. They came from a pre-planned scenario. This means that the entire Slovenian policy was aware of the outcome of these hearings, that the result was not, in any case, dependent on the responses of individual ministers. That on these so-called 'hearings' which were time-bound, which urged Members to do as soon as possible to ask as few questions as possible and to cover as few content sets as possible, the result is what it was. The result is suitable for the composition of the Slovenian government. In our opinion, inappropriate. According to our assessment, it is harmful for our future development together or for the development of the Republic of Slovenia. Today's proposed government, which is essentially an old new government, because if we look at it, there are only three new names, has set a priority, at least in the Slovenian National Party we estimate, in three basic points: this is the approximation of the EU, NATO and the cause of dependence. The cause of dependence on the stronger. Loss of your own sovereignty in good work. But let me go through the folds. At a time when Slovenia is involved in European integration, various military integration, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia takes this as a fact, although the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have not yet decided to do so and the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is changing the whole legislation, I am adapting the Slovenian budget and the pace of life is nowhere to be found for so-called protection. Protection of Slovenian people or whatever we can say, protection of Slovenian interests. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already proposed two laws from the economic field: the takeover law and the anti-competitive law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia's response to these two laws, which had one and the main purpose, is to create strong Slovenian companies that will compete in the new European market, the government's response was simple: No, Slovenia does not need this. In Slovenia we must not have competing companies that can survive independently without foreign capital. Even more. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia expresses its desire or desire for a new tax policy, wherever tax burden is imposed on foreign investors. While there is talk of tax relief for Slovenian economic operators, no. This is completely disputed, says the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. You all know that a few days ago, perhaps weeks ago, we passed another quasi-law in the entire legacies of laws that we adopt - the law on aid to businesses. We also believed in it in the framework of this law that we wanted, at least in the beginning, in the Slovenian National Party, in the idea or in the pure idea of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to finally protect the domestic economy, especially the one that is in trouble. No, the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for this law, provides financial resources for the implementation of this law, which, according to our assessment, represent not even 10% of the necessary funding. When we show a solution for the appropriate financial resources, a secretary from the Ministry of Finance suddenly appears and says that this is completely irrelevant; only Slovenia cannot afford to help businesses in difficulty. On the other hand, it must be said that the structure of the budget, i.e. the fund of money that they raise in this country, consists of 95% of tax revenue. So that in 95% of all money, let's say, at the rate of 1,400 billion per year, it comes from taxpayers, whether natural or legal. On the other hand, when this money is to be earmarked for something useful, for something Slovenian, the government of the Republic of Slovenia is not listening. We find this completely unacceptable in the Slovenian National Party. We are surprised to see why this seems acceptable or why such project tasks by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia seem acceptable to Slovenian politics. Why do all the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, all laws burdening Slovenia and Slovenia, find support without a real debate? And if we are in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or in the case of financial acts, public finances. Of course, in the Slovenian National Party we have always talked about that this area is number one, that it is an area with which the government, including this National Assembly, should be more seriously engaged so that we are not as able as we are today. We can certainly say that there is a chaotic situation in the area of public finances. That debt, in the form of bonds, will become inflation; that the Ministry of Finance is still under the leadership of the current mandate-holder, Mr Ropa, is aware of one and the only measure to cover current consumption - to cover current consumption, namely the issue of bonds. In this year alone, the former Minister of Finance, Tone Rop, commissioned each Slovenian to pay over 50,000 Slovenian tolls in the form of bonds only this year. Together, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, each individual, including those who are not 18 years old, owe more than 700,000 Slovenian tolars due to the policy of the finance minister or the policy of the Liberal Democracy. And when he asks the candidate for finance at the hearing whether it will continue to do so, he says it makes sense to him. It makes sense for him to cover part of the current consumption with bonds. In the Slovenian National Party, they would only agree to issue bonds if their total value goes to investment, but not to any investment, but only to those investments that generate some new value. As we know, however, it is unfortunate that in Slovenia, wherever politics has its hands together, investments are not successful, unfortunately. As for the next very significant instrument of the Slovenian government, that is, those governments that will take us for the next two years, given that they have not agreed to any new project, of course, is also the sale of our country. The sale of economic operators, those in which the State has its share and the like. As you know, in Slovenia we sold the New Ljubljana Bank at the wish of the Belgians. The Minister of Finance, Tone Rop, made this wish today. It will not be long, a year, two, three, according to our assessment, you will also join the same sales system of the Maribor Credit Bank. Today under the pretext of creating the so-called second financial pillar. In 1994, this National Assembly adopted a decision adopting a constitutional law to adopt a special privatisation law at the time of the privatisation of banks, taking into account the participation of citizens in rehabilitation. Sanitation cost the country over 400 billion, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia forgets all of this at the moment or at the moment of sale. The Constitutional Court turns out to be working on a phone call. They say that matters are insufficiently substantiated, in short, that they do not have time for the matter to be outside their scope of time. But of course, it's not the only sale. This year, the State of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Government, the Liberal Democracy, sold the most assets among all countries trying to join the EU or European integration. Ladies and gentlemen! It's one way to sell assets. But that's the worst way. Slovenia is not in a position today or is not in a position to exclusively grasp this instrument. But it is true that this instrument is the easiest. And it is true that elsewhere in the world of this instrument are those governments that are incompetent. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that as far as the Slovenian government is concerned, yes, this is incompetent. Allow me to proceed with fiscal policy. So, unfortunately, Slovenia does not have a selective fiscal policy for Slovenians and Slovenes. This seems totally unacceptable to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because at the time of acceptance [[...]] [[A sign for the end.]] Since time is up, there are still some things. [[...]] Of course, we will not support the proposals for ministers in the Slovenian National Party. We believe that it is a shame that ministers are only because ministers are not prepared to join some serious projects that reflect the quality of life. I think that we must not, and the government must not forget that our common purpose is only to bring better life into the country. We won't support the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much, colleague Pec. I now invite my colleague Štemberger to convey the views of the Group of Members of the Youth Party. They will be followed by a colleague of the Possonians on behalf of the parliamentary community of both nationalities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. In the Party of Youth Slovenia, also following presentations by candidates for ministers of the new government, the position remains to support the list of candidates for ministers as well as the support of the new minister. Since the ministerial team remains almost the same, we cannot expect it to have a significantly different approach to governance than the government has so far. It is said that, even from the new government, we can expect too much from the experience of the last two years between what you are promising coalition parties and what you are doing and how you are doing. The Finance Minister's candidate has not convinced us by his presentation that he will be able to carry out one of the most important tasks in the field of public finances, namely reducing inflation to a European comparable level. In addition, it publicly advocates the introduction of tuition in a regular higher education study. Otherwise, the candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport has strongly denied the introduction of tuition, and we expect him to keep this promise. However, it gives a completely different interpretation of the two ministers of the same government that we can realistically expect attempts to introduce tuition in a regular higher education study in the coming years. We strongly oppose this in the Young Slovenia Party and we will also do everything in our power to prevent it. The candidates' plans for the Minister of Information Society remain the same as they were two years ago. Unfortunately, however, the level of development of the information society has remained the same over the last two years. Unfortunately, the effects of the Ministry only show that citizens are forced to collect more than 60,000 signatures for the referendum to defend the provisions of the law proposed by the Ministry. One of the few bright exceptions, however, is the candidate for Minister for Regional Development. Her presentation gives us the hope that the necessary steps will be taken in the area of regional development towards decentralisation and the coherent economic development of our country. However, the question that remains open is how far this will work, especially in view of the strong centralisation policy of the proposed government. In her efforts, we therefore wish her every success. The candidate for the Minister for European Affairs has also demonstrated by his work so far that he is quite different from his ministerial colleagues, and we hope that he will continue to do his work as successfully as he has done so far. A new minister is proposed in the field of education, Mr Gaber. The new man is supposed to bring a new wind into school reform, but we really doubt that. Universities and colleges are required to regulate the financing of universities. However, there is a greater demand for a paid regular study after 2005, as the current way does not provide the basic necessary resources for the implementation of the programmes. A few years ago, the government tried a new method of credit scholarship, which was intended for students who could not afford a study without additional financial assistance. Unfortunately, the system didn't work. Now we're back on the old, no comprehensive system of scholarships, no clear direction, what about university study programs. Universities are wondering how to fund study programs. If this area is not settled soon, Slovenian students will only be able to choose from the field of economics and law. It is also deeply late in the project to build 5,000 new student beds. We should be building new homes by now, and you haven't come any further than looking for possible locations for them. On the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport, we were able to hear in the consideration of the amendments to the budget for the proposal for the local scholarship funds, that our proposal would undermine the concept of scholarship policy. So I'm asking, what is this concept? Staff scholarships are almost gone. There are only Republic scholarships remaining, but so far the government has only done so much in this area by setting up the Adfutura Fund, which is dedicated to a very narrow selection of students. The re-education of education has not moved from a dead point in the last two years either. The following year they are expected to introduce a nine-year-old into all primary schools; it was intended primarily for the benefit of schoolchildren, but they now face mainly double-shift education and poorer learning conditions in the absence of school infrastructure. We doubt that the proposed candidate for a minister will be able to resolve the major backlogs in the field of education, but he certainly has a lot of work to do. The same problem also arises in the area of health. The mandate was given to Minister Kebra as capable, as he re-proposed him. Unfortunately, we can't agree with him. Hospital affairs are quite orderly. Investments in health infrastructure have been at a minimum for years. I'd rather not mention the pediatric clinics and the cancer institute. Many audits are carried out on the projects, rather than promoting their construction. Not a day goes by so we don't hear from individual hospitals the gurgling of the lack of modern equipment. And the purchase is carried out only with donations from companies and charities. In individual municipalities, however, voluntary contributions are collected for the purchase of ambulances. No one is surprised by the data on public opinion polls, according to which doctors are one of the most corrupt public officials. People are slowly saying that without money, there is no health. The health insurance system, which was initially well placed, failed. More and more medicines and health services need to be paid. A candidate for the Minister of Health, who in two years has failed to establish a dialogue with doctors and the Medical Chamber and is even in constant conflict with them in the Young Slovenia Party, unfortunately, we cannot support them. We are aware that the individual areas presented by individual candidates for ministers are complex and that many tasks need to be carried out, and therefore we note the need for maximum coordination between the departments. The "hearings" have repeatedly shown that the promises made by the candidates for ministers were unclear that they had little knowledge of certain areas, that some did not know the coalition contract, and in some parts they even opposed each other, namely, those promises. In the Young Slovenia Party, we want to stress once again the priority areas that we have highlighted in 2000 and have not been fulfilled by the government despite promises. For example, it will provide young people with the possibility of quality education, employment, social services, housing policy and other youth problems. In addition, other issues that are related to these issues remain open. For example, Slovenia's entry into the information society, the opening of Slovenian culture into the world, local self-government and so on. Since there are too few bright exceptions among the proposed candidates for ministers, the proposed list of candidates for ministers in the Youth Slovenia Party will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. Colleague Maria Possonec will present the position of the Hungarian National Community or of the parliamentary group of nationalities. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u38	All in attendance, all in attendance! Allow me to welcome all of you to an important event for Slovenia and all of its inhabitants. The establishment of a new government is certainly historic. There is no dilemma for me whether the proposed ministers and ministers should be supported or not. Their work so far deserves confidence in the future. That is why I will support the proposed list of candidates for ministers and ministers. But to this government and from everyone, from each of the proposed ministers, I certainly have certain expectations ahead. In particular, I ask the Minister of Health and the Minister for the Environment, Space and Energy to take seriously the health situation of the inhabitants of Mura. It is your duty, and it is your professional, ethical and human duty to investigate and determine the causes of the dense illness and early mortality of the population there. For this I ask you in the name of holiness and the immeasurability of life. I ask the Minister of Transport to take care of the construction of the motorway in view of the more coherent development of the area near Mura and the major international importance of the fifth corridor. I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food to finally understand the importance of the country and agriculture of the country's natural heritage for the full benefit of farmers and the entire Slovenian population. I expect the Minister of Economy to enable and support the economic development of the sites mentioned above. However, I expect from the Minister for Regional Development that the Fund should address development, not only as a beautiful slogan, but as effective measures to address lagging behind. The province should be given the opportunity to develop, to offer bread and a home and to work for all its inhabitants. I expect from the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a new active approach to ending unemployment, because 20% of unemployment deserves the care and responsibility of the whole government. I expect the Minister for Education, Science and Sport to offer our children the same opportunities for development as children elsewhere in Slovenia. The Minister of Culture should help to preserve the true and spiritual cultural heritage, for language and culture are the factors that preserve the most ethnic identity. Finally, let me inform you of the alarming information from which you will see that my expectations are justified - there are 11% fewer people in bilingual villages than there were ten years ago. Specifically, at the Centre, 25% fewer people and 30% fewer people in Radmožanci. I want the government and I want you ministers to do good, work responsible, so that Slovenia will be a friendly country offering social security, prosperity and a pleasant stay for all its inhabitants, including us, members of the nation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much, colleague of the Possons. Now Dr. Miha Brace's colleague has the floor. He will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. He's been followed by a fellow Squirrel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u40	Mr. President, I'll speak from the bench. The first is because the opposition likes to look the government in the eye, and the second is because it is not good to have such a government behind us. Respectable candidates, distinguished candidates! You've made a lot of promises, you've made a lot of promises, and since you're smart people, I know you know very well that you can't make it happen in two years or later. So why such promises? Certainly not because of us opposition, because the matter is clear as to how many of us there are. We would have received support in any case, that was known from the moment you were appointed. Not for the public's sake. You'll be elected by the public for a long time. But the question is, why? For the public loves you if you do such foolishness or illegality. But the formula for your success is that you offer promises and illusions. But people don't like the truth. People love illusions. But in the opposition, of course, we seem to have been wrongly created and we want to say what we think we are, and we try to be realistic about it. Is it even possible for promises to be fulfilled? Our answer is clear: no, it's not possible. First of all, for exaggeration. We read and listened to the magnetograms, your programs, many were very good, promising, interesting - yes, such a government does not really need the opposition. But the problem is, there was too much exaggeration. The problem is that your promises are unrealistic. I wouldn't go into the details right now because it'd be too long. The second reason we doubt your success is because you don't have a concept or, according to your household, the left doesn't know what the right hand is doing. Consider, for example, the promises of all, almost all ministers or ministers or candidates and candidates. Everyone promises a greater share, in all areas so to speak, and the citizens are thrilled - more for education, more for health, more for it, more for it. Great! But then we listen to the candidate for Professor Marble's Minister, and he was kind of in a different mood and he came in the other direction. So, two completely contradictory tendencies are already at the hearings. The majority therefore predicts a higher public consumption and the Minister of Finance a smaller one. Now put this together, if you can, I can't do it myself. But you're in the government, you'll know that already. Or regions. It was this year that we passed the Law on State Administration in this National Assembly, and it was well written in there that the regions, so this area, if I say less, are in the Ministry of Economy. And there's the secretary of state and the whole team. Everything's fine and fine. But the mandate holder suddenly enlightens the Slovenian public by needing a minister councillor or, no, a minister without a charter for the region. Where is this lady going to sit now, because she's going to be sitting, and I want her to have a lot of success in this? Not in the Ministry of the Economy. Where, then? Tomorrow or this afternoon, she'll have to sit somewhere. That means we're gonna have to create a new job, and that's a parallel. Or maybe you'll change the state administration law, but we just passed it. Or, say, a law on civil servants. We just set up the public service system this year. And then the government comes in with the law on the President of the Republic and says - or coalition, the power to say what to say - those officials who will be with the President of the Republic as advisers are something special, they are officials; but those officials who are with the Prime Minister, they are ordinary advisers, so to speak, are less valued. It is interesting how all of you, who have many advisers with you, agree. How will your counselors view this if you do not fight for them? Or reforms in health care, but this has already been said. Every reform turns into its opposite. A man expects a result, but then some strange situation arises, and then he'd rather throw a rifle into the corn. Or, say, to the Prime Minister, I've made it clear that the government has no economic strategy. In his reply, the Prime Minister said he had it on his desk. However, in her presentation, the Minister of Economy did not talk about strategies, which strategies are those that will be key for Slovenia in the coming period. Obviously, there are even more of these cases, but I would not want you to lose your patience. So why don't we support you? Because you don't have enough people. This turned out when you were looking for a finance minister and finally you were able to convince an eminent expert who, of course, is back from the university; I am also from the university and there are many university professors here, I would not like to mention that conversation, German, about how - how is it already going? - "Drei Professor..." because I don't want to spit in my bowl. But please. It must also be said, of course, that the forecasts of changes in ministries and so on show that human resources measures will continue. You also called it cleaning your time when we were in the government. So we can expect political staffing, which is still a constant practice for the last 10 years in your range. In doing so, the government's personnel office will be loyal to you. And each such ideological or other cleaning is covered with some legal basis. In doing so, this government's personnel service has no idea about human resources. It's just a bureaucratic apparatus that serves some bureaucratic interests. We won't support you because of your way of working. The last time I said it, arrogant and ignorant. Yesterday we had here a bill that was supposed to amend the law to regulate school transport. So it was a young man driving to school. But none of the government was on this side. Not even the government's resignation or the candidate for a school minister. That's amazing. Next. Behavior at interrogations. When Mr Bohinc proposed, presented his programme, in addition to the Chairman of the Committee on the Internal Policy of Lavrinca and Mr Potræ and Mrs Potrate, only the opposition sat. Then they kind of jumped, but just before the vote, it looked like a charge. So I have to tell you, here you can see clearly what the meaning of hearings in such an imbalance as is currently in Slovenia. Political imbalance. Spending money, reckless and illegal spending of budgetary resources and so on. During these years, the Court of Auditors has offered abundant, indeed a lot of evidence - I ask you not to be condemned again by any aggression or by what the Prime Minister likes to say - just to see how many of these sins are committed. But the vine. No one said in their performance, but in the past we also had problems with consumption, we broke something in this and this, but now we assure you that we will respect the law and we will not waste even a tolarr against the rules. Not a word. You didn't think it was worth saying. Does this mean that you will continue this practice? Because the Court of Auditors tells them, but nothing happens to you. A little man would've. Normal idealism. Most ministers predict new laws or regulations. Of course, a lot of changes to existing laws. I know that it is necessary to amend legislation. But to keep coming with one and the same rule, but it's already abject. I wonder why you don't take your time and think this through. And use these powerful human resources that you continue to boast about, to make sure that the laws are finally prepared so that they do not consider three times in the same year of the same law. But this government has not been able to do so far, and unfortunately, I do not believe it will be able to continue. Or information idealism. You expect, e-government, that'll be all, we'll just press the buttons. People will get information and up and down. See how your portal, government portal, or what it's called an e-portal of the government works for you. Billions went for it. And the thing doesn't work. Or is there someone responsible for the billions going into something that didn't happen? Nobody. People just accept that information is important. Where is this relationship between the money invested and the result? You didn't even talk about it in your presentations. The information centre of the government is something that we should immediately place under one of the ministers, either in the information society or I don't know where. But this government service can't be independent because it's a simple service. And you have to tell them what you need, not tell them what to do, and so on. Not to mention any other matters in this regard. The only thing you have succeeded in all these years is the e-commerce extract from the home book, and this is not needed anymore because it is already an official record and it is the responsibility of the state to provide it to the citizen, but not that the citizen works for it because we have changed the law on administrative procedure as you may know. I said before, we won't support you because you don't respect the laws you're proposing. But look, if legal culture is so low at national level, what will it be like at local level? Although I was at a municipal meeting in Domžal yesterday, and the Mayor probably resented it, but I don't blame her for breaking the law and regulations and the statutes and most of the regulations she wants because it's your practice. You do not embark on whether it is a costume session, a special session or a purely ordinary session. No, that's what we're gonna vote for. It can't be any different. We will not support you either because you simply do not mean what you promise and what you say. I doubt that the legislation that we have all worked so hard together to join the European Union will be respected as is expected in Europe. Why do I doubt that? Because I've been in the world for so long, and I know this period of ten years of Drnovsk's government. There's a big gap between normal and reality. This was typical of the Yugoslav state, which is also characteristic of Slovenia in these ten years. We started with the reform of public administration, and now, in the beginning, you're breaking it with these individual laws that I've talked about before. Minister Gaber was talking about learning society. It's absolutely very important. One of the most important topics. You can't be against what he suggested. A whole bunch of important starting points. What's the practice? Like black and white, I'd say. Not to mention other things related to this teaching society. You're talking about lifelong learning. Yeah, well, it can't be done in this country because there's no money. You're talking about higher education. Great. But hand to heart, look what this university entry looks like. Centralized. In one place all applications must be collected, students point as if they were tribal cattle. Nobody wonders if this young man who has an average score of 7, but has something in him that I can't say, but he's certainly capable of this profession. No, he's scored so many points, it's like he's just a rascal. That's what you can't see. You're in points and numbers and percentages, but you don't see people. And that's also why I say we won't support you because you don't have enough sense for a little man. We talked about these subsidies yesterday. He said a fellow Tanko, a ticket for a child from Lodske Potok to Kočev 25,000 tolars per month. If he goes to Ljubljana, 60,000 tolars a month. If you have two children, it's 120,000 a month. It's perfectly clear that these kids can't go to school because there's no money. We all knew that, the arguments were excellent, the outcome of the vote was narrow. After Mr Anderlich had a thorough discussion, let's say with DeSUS, who had voted in favour before and so on, things have changed. I regret that the young parties - but, here they are now gone, but young people have other concerns - were not here to vote for, except for one. Whoever voted against it is also interesting. Let's say, well, Mr. Anderlich has already been mentioned. Let's say people who live in places from which to drive to Ljubljana, Mr Bevk, say, or perhaps Mr Gaber as a future school minister, or from the magazines, Mr Grošelj, and say Mr Krebsova - I was sure that he would vote as he spoke, but it will happen - Mr Mose, Mr Tone Partlič, say, Vice-President Krebsova, Mr Potrč, say, School, I mean, let it all be clear. I don't understand that. And it's only 4 billion and half. It's only four billion and a half, and we tear this thing up or you tear it up. But when it comes to changing carpets in the ministry, it will last. We're not going to support you either because you're making a difference between people. I recognize the great success of Minister Rupl and Minister Potočnik in integrating Slovenia into the European Union and NATO. I also acknowledge to Minister Booth that this, as I say, agricultural package, as it now shows, is good for Slovenia. It is right that we have taken care of the population in the countryside. Great. But what hurts me is 100,000 unemployed, for which we have no solution. You don't have a solution. Mr. Prime Minister said last time, a computer course. The next day I received a letter from someone from Konjice who said: "I have also worked for at least ten years in the field of business computer science in the company, went to further computerization and also to a famous knowledge coin, which is supposed to help with employment. And that's how you figured out what that means for the unemployed. Nothing. In the end, you're even sadder when you see everyone berate you. There are no job opportunities anyway." I believe 25% of people still get a job using these programs, and that's the way it is, and I support it. But we still haven't solved the problems, how can I say, about 60,000 people who are today as old as this gentleman, about fifty years or less and live an unworthy life because they don't have the means to live. And we're talking about all possible plans. This is what - once again, I do not mind that we have taken good care of farmers. Great! But let's give it up for you. Or for a few hundred thousand workers in the industry who have lousy salaries. I haven't heard a word of this from any minister. Yes, how can people learn how to implement the Gabra minister's programme, and if wage programmes in the economy are what they are now? It doesn't work together. I have to tell you, you give priority to things, not to people. Let's say we're building roads. It's also, of course, right, we need roads. But we're also building something else that could wait. Of course, a lot of money is about the functioning of the country, and we could make a lot of savings here. Look, economists face these problems - we have to lower the price, if not, they won't buy with us anymore, our foreign partners. You as a government say peacefully, we will increase public debt by so much and so much that we need it. Look at your own expense! How much a country costs because of itself, and how much it costs to invest, is actually the welfare of people. This is where Paret's 80% syndrome is going to be spent for yourself. Everything else is going to be for us citizens. Have you ever asked yourself since 1992, what does a generation that was then 17, 18 years old do? Today they are people 27, 28, 29 years old. A couple of days ago, I was talking to someone, and they said, "We had our reunion. Thirty of us were in class, only two of us were married, and we all have, I'd say, two kids in this class." And I said, "Yeah, well, why is that, because marriage isn't as bad as a man likes to 'glorify', it's in the marriage, as far as I'm concerned, very good," but the problem is elsewhere, they said. The problem is, we don't have a perspective. He says, "You're in Parliament with the same-sex people, and you have suggestions for that for the third," he says, "let's deal with us once, with the young people." Why do we want to go abroad? Why are we looking forward to this Europe issue somehow being realized in order for the market to open up? Because we'll have a chance to look elsewhere for our future. Yes, then who will we have these beautiful houses for, and the halls for, regional development, if the regions are empty? Have you ever wondered how more than 50% of Slovenian families live because they are already in debt? How? Yeah, we haven't heard from you about that. We're going to build buildings at the Schengen border, because we have to, of course, have to. But at the same time, we hear now that customs officials say, there's no money for our education - yeah, how's it going together? And another reason is that - because there are more, but that I will not be too long - another reason is why we will vote against why we will not support this government. Because you don't believe in democracy. You all understand the democratic deficit because it's about Europe, you don't see it at home. Today it has been said many times, these hearings have been a farce. We were even thinking that we wouldn't attend them at all, because it's a waste of time, but because then the media would show us what we're doing, why we're getting paid, and we said good, let's do it. But it doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense! It's a waste of money and time. And it's unworthy of the surface. The media says all candidates have received support. Yeah, bravo! If he plays first league with the second league, of course the first league will always win. If he's playing top chess with someone who's a little bit worse, it's already known who he's gonna be. Of course there's one difference. In a timely situation, it is not a difference in excellence, in expertise, in knowledge, but only in power. Your programs are full of ideas. Full of organizations, actions, systemic solutions, sub-laws, anything. But there's nothing about man. There's nothing about people. Your government will be a kind of technocratic, technical government, but not in the good sense of the word, not in the perspective of the word. You didn't say anything about the development of democracy. But you promised a lot, that's true. And a promise makes a debt. Every government of Drnovskov has made a lot of promises, including your government. There's not much promise left. But there's a lot of debt left. When you read the papers, you'd say that we're in a phase where honey and milk are being drained. Well, it's milk. Despite the fact that there are quite a few individuals in this government group who we think are very capable and who would vote for them if there were a single vote. We can't even support the government because of everything I've said. In short, the Social Democratic Party will not support this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much, colleague Brace. Comrade Companion, do you hope to set your back on the government, or not? Please, please. You have the floor to present the views of the SLS Group. This is the final presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister, candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers! It seemed strange to me this morning because I was written as the last to present the views of the Group of Members. When it happened to me that I was performing when it said that social democracy was in front of me, I knew I'd find myself in an awkward position. After this attractive performance, my colleague, Dr Brejc, has put the situation in place for me to say on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, why the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed list of candidates and candidates for the Magi Government. Anton Rope. It's a second half, but the game started two years ago in October. It is said that the current government coalition is the result of the will of people from the October 2000 elections. We can't forget that. It was only a set of circumstances that brought "time out" and also a new conductor. The Slovenian People's Party is a member of the Programme's very diverse coalition. In its programme, the Slovenian People's Party wants to bring the European People's Christian Party programme into the current government coalition. It's not easy. But we are convinced that it is good for the Slovenian country that at the time when Slovenia joins the European Union, when before a sensitive time to join NATO, there is also a party to conservative direction in the government coalition. First of all, because this orientation is the one that is practically the most powerful in European policies. Then because we are the successor of the former Demos, those political groups and movements that were very responsible for Slovenian independence. It is responsible and honorable that we also represent the spirit of Demos as we approach the entry into the European Union and NATO. And let us be clear, some ministers in the current government are also those who had a very important role to play in the projects at the time. The socio-market model of the economy is one that has proven to be the best model so far. The principle of subsidiarity is important. Let's trust people in the field, society, organization, community, union. Don't let politics do anything. Let us also trust those who know and can. We build on the principle of a person. It won't be awkward for us to talk about the importance of family. When we talk about education, science, culture, let's not be embarrassed to talk about values. These are the areas where the spirit is released. These are the areas where values are born. The European people's direction is also a direction that seeks social consensus and dialogue. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party wants to be part of this government coalition. The team, as proposed, has a large majority of experienced ministers and ministers. We know them well, we trust in their work, we are disappointed in some. We were right in deciding on the working bodies and gave them confidence for another half-time. We hope that some will realize it, because they have not yet fully achieved it. There are some new names on the new team. In our opinion, the key name is Dr. Marble. "Let's build the robustness of Slovenian public finances." The experienced professor said these words and then, in his performance, also gave some robust thoughts about the state of the Slovenian public finances. We appreciate his talk. Unfortunately, so far, financial ministers have not been as direct as he was. We support him in his views on reducing inflation. We support him in his views when he says how he will face some worrying trends in Slovenian public finances. But it is true that we disagree with all of his views. So far we haven't had a chance to talk to him about these things. But I'm sure we'll find them. Dr. Marble, you will soon find yourself in a situation where your professorial experience will be too little. The Minister is first a politician and then an expert. When you are in trouble, you will be able to contact the Slovenian People's Party. In the programme highlights, we would like to emphasise that there have been many expectations regarding regional development. Magnetic move. Robbery, in cooperation with colleagues in DeSUS, is good, but we hope that a new solution will be given to the coordinating role of mags. The blacksmiths are accepted in such a way as to have jurisdiction. With regard to regional development, we would like to stress the role of agriculture. Agriculture is not a domain of the Slovenian People's Party, but is a development, political and state issue of the Slovenian State and the Slovenian Government. Agriculture is a multiplier. If more can be done for agriculture, it helps the Slovenian countryside. Our Chairman of Mag. But he proved to be an excellent negotiator, one of the most persistent in Slovenia and brought this state to Slovenia next year, however, that he can expect Slovenia to join the European Union with greater optimism. We expect more young masters on farms. We expect farms to be organised as good businesses in this way. In this government, we would like to support all those programmes that will help Slovenia face negative demographic trends. True, there was a lack of speech on these issues. In the government coalition, we would like to support all those solutions that would encourage Slovenians and Slovenians and Slovenian citizens and citizens to participate actively. This is an area of which Slovenian politics speaks little. We're almost all shareholders. Let's be active shareholders. In this government, we would like to support the active and convincing takeover and conviction of Slovenian citizens and citizens, why Slovenia's entry into NATO is important. We hope and we are confident that we will be convincing about this. In this government, we would like to support all those government policies so that Slovenian foreign policy remains successful. The stage of entry into the European Union has been successful. There are still some new challenges ahead of us, which we hope and we want them to be successful. I have outlined some reasons why the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed list of candidates and candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Prime Minister and candidates and candidates for ministers and ministers! With this, we have exhausted the part of the point where they present the views of the Group of Members, and now they will get the word of a colleague and colleagues. 24 have been reported for word. We'll vote at 2.45 p.m. Let me also point out this time, on behalf of those who will be leading the debate, that, according to the agenda item, the subject of the debate, the appointment of a government, the chairman will not intervene in the debate if someone goes beyond the scope of the debate. This is a specific point, and it is difficult for the president to estimate that someone has gone over the point in citing illustrations or other thoughts. However, we expect to avoid the qualifications that opponents might consider offensive in the debate. Then we can begin with the word of Members and Members. The first one is from Comrade Pohorec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, President. Honourable Prime Minister, Mag. Tone Rop, distinguished candidates and candidates for ministerial departments! The change of government, in which there are only minor changes in human resources and additions, is, somehow in the middle of the mandate, an opportunity and a great responsibility to complete the project we set up in 2000, when we appointed the government. In this mandate and on this occasion, you are also slightly complementing these programmes. Not only the government, but also we Members have entered this second half of this term. If we have supported, at least two years ago, the coalition, the government programme of Dr. Janez Drnovska, we will also today, and I think it is only a coalition that has supported the programme that you set up for this second part of the mandate that is still ahead of us. The best judge, whether we act right or not, whether we make decisions good or bad, will be the next parliamentary elections. Somewhere in the late fall of 2004, we will see what our constituents, our citizens, will judge. Then we can say whether we made the right decision or not, whether all that was and what will be said today is right or wrong. I believe that Slovenia has achieved such good results in this last decade as many others have recognised. This, however, is the entry into the European Union, invited to NATO. Surely all these invitations would not have been without internal positive movements. That Slovenia has made this remarkable progress, we are recognised beyond our borders by those who are more developed than we are, Europe, the world, as well as those who are behind us. If we know today's situation in some countries of our former Yugoslav common country, and those countries that have been under Soviet influence or somehow in the eastern bloc where they are today, then we can see where we could be, after all, if not we had hatched the bible twelve years ago. I don't doubt it, and I'm not saying that we don't have any problems or problems, and then I'm sure he'd be blind. That there are many open tasks to be done, so is the government, which will have to come with these proposals, and so will we, who will have to follow them, whether or not. It is also the responsibility of the National Assembly to implement the government's programme through the adoption of laws through the support of those proposals that the government will make. I would also touch on a few questions myself, not to say that only the opposition sees the unresolved issues, but we are blind and do not want to admit that there is anything to do. One of the most common words spoken in this Chamber was the regional development or more consistent development of this country, from Lendava to Kopra, from Jesenic to Brežic. I think that with the programme that the mandate-holder and the new minister are bringing and will try to achieve it, there will be a shift in that. Last but not least, Slovenia has made a great deal of funding available in various departments, but we do not have a concerted performance on this issue. The completion of the privatisation of companies, companies that are still state-owned, is often mentioned. I think that all care and attention is needed and caution is needed in banks and insurance companies, but there could be more flexibility in the release of other state-owned enterprises into private or property, including foreigners, who would bring more refreshment to these companies. We have talked a lot about helping those sectors of our economy that are in developmental difficulties, and this must certainly be given more or more attention in the future. It's about unemployment, and it's going to be a speech, and I can see it myself, because I live in an area where it reaches 20% and across. And these are the problems of these congregations, these regions of the border area, which will have to be taken to the forefront and tried to find the best solutions. I think more order and discipline should be made in paying taxes and contributions. Let's not just be honest, I'll say, those who pay taxes and contributions and the rest are smart. More emphasis is placed on the development of personnel, the education of the young generation, including transport, assistance in transport to school, because this is a problem. But we're gonna have to find the right model if we didn't find the right solution yesterday. However, I am still of the opinion that the aim was good, but perhaps the proposal was not made in time to find a place in the 2003 budget. It will need to be developed and worked on. I think that all attention will have to be paid to the social situation of the population, especially in those areas where development rates are lower than central Slovenia, because these problems are the most present, both young and workers in these companies, who are in roughly the same condition as older generations in this area, because they come from former, even lower wages and thus lower pensions, and here life is different than we can see in the centre of the country or in the development regions, with a higher level of development. And you need to see where and how to solve these things. Not even what is happening today is to stimulate wrongdoing or a lack of willingness to work. This may also be a problem and a disstimulation to be satisfied only with social assistance and says why I should go to work because I can live with it. I therefore believe that there are sufficient tasks that are open, which you have also given yourself, at these presentations, and that you will be able to approach their solutions. I believe that the Prime Minister has gathered a good team to meet these challenges, to make progress even more visible in two years' time, and to be able to stand before his constituents even after two years of completion of this mandate. I, the distinguished candidates for ministers and candidates for ministers and Prime Minister, wish you a great deal of good will, concerted work and many good results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Comrade Pohorec. Before I give my word to my colleague Sok, let me say what I am to my colleagues who asked me out loud. They asked me whether I intended to propose, in accordance with Article 67, at the end of the debate, that we extend the debate by one hour at most. I do not intend to propose this to the National Assembly. I already said I would have voted at 2.45 p.m. because the parliamentary groups had the opportunity to announce the desired amount of time, and I have taken this into account in the work plan and I propose that we stick to the order. So on my part, there will be no extension proposal. We'll vote at 2.45 p.m. I said this because my colleagues asked me about the other obligations they now have with the consultations and the other when the vote will take place. So it'll be at 2:00 p.m. Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable government, colleagues and colleagues! So, in this short period of time I will be able to touch on agriculture and agriculture-related rural issues in a little more detail. Otherwise, here before, my colleague Brac said that agriculture was well cared for. Unfortunately, however, in this Parliament, Slovenian farmers do not have their own representative and, of course, we cannot hear firsthand about these problems, but we are somehow speaking indirectly, particularly those Members who come from rural areas. Look, the presentation by the Minister of Agriculture said a lot about what we have done in the legislative field, what we have done in the field of institutional approximation to the European Union. Much less was said, of course, what is the economic perspective of Slovenian farmers, what we will do in this area, in the area of restructuring, how we will nevertheless do to keep Slovenian agriculture alive. As we look, although the agricultural budget for agriculture is increasing and these direct payments to farmers are increasing, in Slovenia we are meeting more and more protests from Slovenian farmers. While the Minister is responding to this dilemma, if this is a legitimate right and it is some sort of pattern that is transferred from Europe to Slovenia, I am not sure that this is the case. So it's probably two reasons. Is the reason why Slovenian farmers are not prepared to face the problems of approaching the European Union, or is it the other one that seems more likely to be an impossibility? The inability, of course conceived in, would say the difficult processing conditions represented by the Republic of Slovenia, then in the poor education structure, in the countryside itself, in the age structure or also in the cost of capital that agriculture needed for further development. As we look at the data, we can see that since 1999, the agricultural part of gross social product has been constantly decreasing, and I know that the Minister will reply that this is the same in all developed countries. That's right. It is true, however, that the physical volume of agricultural production is also decreasing in Slovenia and that Slovenia is becoming an increasing importer of food from the European Union. At present, this part is approaching about EUR 400 million. If this is how this imports will grow, it is clear that agriculture will become less and less perspective in Slovenia itself and young people from rural areas move to cities and the question is how will we ensure in the future what we are giving today, when we say that agriculture also means preserving the cultural landscape, that it means preserving the population. The Minister of Agriculture answers that payments will ensure that this rural area continues to be cultivated and, of course, I wonder who will process it, who will cultivate it if there are no more people. Where I'm building my house, near Ormož, there's not a single young family in the part of the village that has any growth. I listened very carefully to the nomination for Prime Minister. He did not mention in a single word the great problem of the Slovenian people, this is a problem of nativity, which of course falls. And if we don't have any more births, if we don't have people, then respected government representatives, we won't have anyone to pay to maintain this area. We won't have anyone to send to school either. For a while they may still be employed health care institutions and homes for pensioners, and, of course, the outlook will be worse from day to day. Our representatives often talk about how well we have negotiated for agriculture in terms of quotas and direct payments. I do not wish to challenge and relativise this, but I would, of course, like to say that the other members, all ten of them, have actually been well negotiated, and I have not heard any government say that it was not well negotiated, which of course is clear, because it was the wish of all candidates on the one hand and even 15 women on the other. So we all achieved something in this story and got it. But if we look at these quotas that have been achieved in agriculture, then of course I can find that they are far below what our government has sent to Brussels as a starting point. Of course, you'll tell me that the starting points were higher to achieve more. But now comes among the farmers because of this false hope, some hope, some protest and some sense of discomfort, and it is reflected in all these contradictions. As far as direct payments are concerned - of course, the issue is such that the European Union has also offered the other members the possibility of direct payments, which is logical, of course, and in particular it is logical for Slovenia, which does not pose any threat to the common European agricultural market in an agrarian sense. It would be illogical not to be allowed to do so, and eventually the European Union allowed Poland to do so. However, if I look at the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture, including with the assistance of the Ministry of Environment and Space, over the last two years in this area, and in this important area, let me mention only two. See the occurrence of BSE, the bovine of spondiophoric encephalopathy. With these solutions, which the Ministry of Environment and Space, and of course the whole government, has done in this area personally and we cannot agree with Members of New Slovenia. Today we have one of the most absurd ways to dispose of slaughterhouse waste, costing us four billion dollars a year. Earlier, my colleague Brejc said that yesterday, in particular, members of the Liberal Democracy firmly rejected the possibility of subsidising the transport of children from socially weak families to a greater extent. It was a proposal to increase this subsidy from 17% to 50%. You voted against it. It's true! 35 of you voted against and 34 of us voted in favour. The estimated value is estimated to be three and a half billion tolars. But we're only on one such segment, such as the harmless disposal of slaughterhouse waste, where all waste is destroyed as hazardous as infectious material. Look what absurdity this is! After a histological examination of the brain at the National Veterinary Institute, which is not cheap and found negative, it is meat for human consumption. The poultry, fats, blood, head and spine are destroyed as high-risk and harmful waste and then driven to the fire in the Chestnut thermal power plant. Yeah, what's the deal? This is about money being poured into the field of energy from agriculture. And that is also what I have done to Minister Kopač, who has answered me about the problems of the Šostanj thermal power plant. Is that appropriate? Would the government not actually make sure that only 15% of slaughterhouse waste goes to one or three cafes in Slovenia and it is not true that one of these three could not be capable of destroying this hazardous waste, which is also a directive of the European Union. Not that we are making such a huge cost today and thus burdening our consumers. Let me make a quick mention of the drought. So even though the drought in 2001 was more catastrophic than in 2002, those who were injured received significantly less, even after an extremely complicated bureaucratic process. So instead of this government reducing bureaucracy, it actually increases it. Well, we haven't recovered from all this damage in agriculture, and there's already a new dairy affair that's getting, I think, a completely economically harmful dimension. Instead of solving it in the way it is resolved, we are working from this affair, we are pouring thousands of liters of milk into the manure, which is, I hope, even a sin - a sin on the fact that today so many people in the world have nothing to eat, and we are pouring thousands of liters of milk into the manure and making fun of it, I would say, a natural delicacy. Perhaps I would mention this for the end - before the end of this: we also report to this government that it has put Slovenian forests into concession, management, past the public tender, and has thus decided on the billions of amounts that should be paid as a concession fee. Before I conclude, I could only make one more comment on the work of Minister Gantar. He's obviously going to have a referendum. When we talk about coherent regional development, one of the components of this coherent regional development is that you, as Minister in charge of telecommunications, would agree that the contributions of natural persons who have built the Slovenian telephone system will also be returned in a fair manner. Since you were not prepared for this, the association was, of course, organized. At that time you were offered a hand and demanded 80%, today because of your insistence the state will have to give 100% if, of course, you take into account the referendum outcome, which I hope will benefit those who have invested. However, here I hope that the nation is so honest and fair that it will admit that these contributions are returned to the beneficiaries, but not as some have most likely planned to privatise in a different way. Unfortunately, I'm running out of time. I have to finish here. I won't support the government myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. I now give the floor to my colleague Bogdan Barovic, who will be followed by his colleague, Chebulj. First, my friend Barovich, and he's the only one with a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable candidates for ministers and ministers! It is true that this National Assembly has rules, that it has established parent working bodies and that these parent working bodies, with all the right under the written rules, perform listening or questioning or, if you wish with a foreign 'hearing'.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u49	Comrade Barovich, if you'll allow me to interrupt. I have been warned here that your parliamentary group has already spent a lot of time, so, unfortunately, I have to take the floor or, I'll just let you make up your mind. Please, my friend Barovich, if you can finish your thought. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u50	No, you'd be a genius! In short, I want to say it. Not all ministers are bad, but not all are good. I would like to point out that I would vote for Dr. Potočnik, but not for some. Since we do not have this option to vote individually and evaluate the work of these ministers, I, like colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, will vote against the appointment of ministers and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. A fellow onion. He's not in the hall. That's my invitation to the word of my colleague Rokavac. Comrade Rokavec, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Mr President, distinguished candidates and candidates for ministers in the new Slovenian government, honourable Members and Members! The appointment of a new government is always the time to try, above all, during this period, when we are actually in the middle of time, to review the work so far and to give guidance for the future. Above all, I think that a half-time is a good time for a thorough reflection on what would make sense to fix in the second half. If we look at what is bad and what needs to be fixed from this perspective, we must first find that the government has a very large majority in Parliament, and that this can be very simple and easy for the government and, on the other hand, a trap. A trap for both the coalition and the opposition. In fact - and also the duty of the coalition to have a greater sense of problem in the country, as well as of the opposition, to try to achieve a greater role in Parliament from its smaller role. If we look at this point of view, then we can see that in fact an increasing number of referendums in this country is one of the very important indicators that feeling and listening to specific comments and the arguments of both the minority in Parliament and citizens are too small. This is the only institute in parliamentary democracy where citizens can actually express their opinions more directly through referendums. I think that the growing number of referendums is not a sign that we have a lax dictatorship in the legislative sense. But quite the contrary: the result of the fact that there is a need to have a significantly greater sense in the future of the comments coming from civil society as well as from the opposition or from Members and Members of Parliament's position. I am also convinced that this half-life on the one hand may be half-time in euphoria, when we have successfully concluded negotiations with the European Union, we have received an invitation to NATO. On the other hand, we are faced with a very important challenge, whether we will actually be ready to do everything that we have succeeded in negotiating with the European Union so far. Here we have to ask ourselves whether our institutions from the top down are at this point in time set up so that those who are able to negotiate over the years will also be able to realize and provide our citizens and citizens with a better life. On the other hand, it is certainly also now a time when it is necessary to define more clearly and to define the national interest of the Slovenian people and our country. In all areas, it must be made clear that when we become part of a larger European family, how will we then know how to respond to the new challenges ahead. And today there was something about this woman that was said in this debate: for it is necessary to turn to man, to men. This was not enough in the thinking of the Slovenian government so far. More will have to be done on this issue in the future. Indeed, it must be realized that if we listen to the comments of our electorate and electorate, then we have many criticisms in our sent offices that our administration is expanding, that the conditions of the state to citizens are exacerbated, or that the state is moving dangerously away or closing itself in this segment, I would say more impermissible spaces. Secondly, the scope of the country's services from year to year is more centralised to move away from the base or to try different exposures and also the tasks of these exposures, the institutions of individual ministries, to transfer or centralise. There is still a need to be sensitive about this in the future. In fact, I think that these are the basic tasks of the government, how the government will actually rule people and, above all, citizens and citizens, to ensure that the extent to which their rights as duties are exercised does not become stronger in this segment, but rather stronger. From this point of view, I expect, in this second half, that the government will also give this segment considerable attention. Because I am sure that it is still up to us whether the government will actually be fully successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u53	Thank you, colleague Franci Rokavec. Comrade Dr. Joseph Bernick, now you have the floor. And after you, my friend Pukšič will get it. Please, Dr. Bernick's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, ministers of appointment, Mr Prime Minister, are warmly welcomed. I'm sure you're getting a little bored with all the good advice you're getting, and I'll add some more if you don't mind. In fact, I'm going to talk about the culture of your behavior and the content of your conduct. I have been surprised by the incredible insensitiveness of you, the authorities, the substantive implementation of laws, the needs of citizens and the like since I've been in Slovenia. Look, let's just take Elan's case. Yeah, our client was the one who triggered it. And if you didn't, what would happen? The government would accept the matter peacefully and the citizens would be harmed and a very poor case of governance would be established or continued. There are other things that Mr Sok has mentioned about what is going on. But we should think about this. But I'm going to say this doesn't surprise me. Why not? Because our entire generation has grown in a climate of moral ingenuity. When it had to be, it had to be conditioned in public with the benefits of a non-democratic government structure. All these years, I've been talking about a success story. But I would say that this success story goes much further back, until 1941. This cord is drawn all the time, and we have it today. Therefore, we do not have roads, so the school system is not as regulated as it should be, so the work area or the economic area is not regulated and so on. Let's ask ourselves where this is coming from. We did not accidentally fall from the moon down and start building again because we lived in the Republic or the Socialist Republic of Slovenia. Good. Look, this is what this is all about. I am sure that each of you is an upright person - personally - but when it comes to working together in your club, everything changes. I have repeatedly asked myself what happens to ministers or government officials who are completely different than they were before. That's what we should be thinking! Let me say that I would like you to step forward, each of you, one step or two back, forget that you are a minister, look at our scene and what our people really need. This must be done by every smart businessman or politician from time to time, because otherwise he is entrusted with his authority, his function and goes according to the rules of this exclusive club. You don't believe you have a club, but everyone else sees this club, you can't penetrate, not without here penetrating any pluralism in the sense of saying, but now we step together and we'll do something for our people. Unfortunately, there's no such thing. What do I suggest you do? Government services are many, already too many, and I don't know who can control them, but what you would need is a layman - if I may say so to remind you of the things that are done, what is actually public morality and what should be done for our people. One thing, I'm going to mention one area, and that's a conflict of interest. No one in this entire success story remembered that this area should be regulated. She was our party that somehow forced it to come -- I think it's from the public servants' law -- but it's being implemented, say, Elan. [[...]] What's the matter, Elan? A typical example of corruption and conflicts of interest and conflicts of interest is out of the question in all areas. Let me just take a look at that. But if we had any kind of layman, I could warn you about these things, but I shouldn't be in the office for the Prime Minister, like this anti-corruption office. That's totally out of line! I'll finish: I wish you good luck. The new government is looking forward to a new age; now you have an opportunity, but if you stay in the club as you were before, it will follow the same lines of success story that goes back to 1941. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today I will not talk about major topics: the sale of the Ljubljana Bank, the sale of the Maribor Bank, the lost holding company you took from Maribor and so on, but I will specifically highlight some of the social problems and problems of the local communities. I have heard several times in these two years: the government is made up of will and people. I tell you clearly and loudly, it's not. The will of men was, of course, different. Liberal democracy certainly bears the greatest responsibility here and has also received the highest votes in the elections, that is, the fact. The second largest parliamentary party is the Social Democrats, who are not in the government coalition and then the government is not like the people's will. It is far from one of the smallest parties with four MPs that is making government policy today. This means: it is not true that this is in accordance with the will of the people. Oh, yeah! I will ask the new Minister, Prof. Dr. Mumorr, when he will be familiar with, unfortunately, the draft budget he has prepared for you and I believe that today the ruling coalition will adopt such a budget - that is, another: how will you deal with the already very pressing problem of the implementation of the legislative and constitutional tasks at local level. Indeed, the fact is that over 120 municipalities receive so-called financial compensation until this so-called appropriate consumption. A few congregations, of course, are exceeding that appropriate consumption, with a large percentage, but of course they or these congregations have it. The fact is that the structure of municipal budgets increases costs such as school transport of children to school. In small municipalities where - I am talking about the area from which I come, this is where you come with rubber boots to your knees: yellow Slovenian mountains, and often impenetrable Haloze - that is from large areas where small numbers of children are transported, but thank God that in these areas people still live is about 10% already the cost of the entire budget of the congregation for the transport of children to school. Then the huge cost that is increasing - and the problem must be known by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Dimovski - is the insurance of the unemployed. As the number of unemployed rises again or increases significantly in this area, the problem is so high. The fact is, we always get bigger at the end of each school year because so many young people come and then there's no good time to find employment in some urban settlement or elsewhere. The fact is that the Minister of Culture, even though the municipalities have municipalities with administrative centres - one four, the other - 8% more resources, has imposed on us the burden of municipal budgets, which we simply cannot - 3% cannot be given from the municipal budget for one library of regional importance. That's not possible. Of course, there is not one tolar for culture that takes place in the congregation: from singing choirs, folklore, festivities, and so on. In short, if you don't have it all, then these young people have nothing to do with it and they go on -- you know where: inn, grass and so on. We're doing everything we can to try to deal with something else. Well, then, of course, there remains the problem - what the local community is actually for - is for infrastructure, roads, plumbing, sewerage and so on. Minister Tea Petrinova well knows that last year, one of the municipalities in Slovenski Gorica, who made an idyllic study on the construction of a sewage project, cannot obtain the resources for the construction of projects. Indeed, if the production of projects in such municipalities is around 40% of the total budget, it is clear that this municipality cannot finance it. Then, of course, when they appear in these congregations - that is, if you want the number of jobs to increase there, then they must have the opportunity. So, industrial zones first. So tell me where these funds will be provided: that it will be possible to invest if land is already made available, so that this can be redeemed in these areas. You were saying, you've all talked from "hearing" to the presentation here -- I'm glad that this time the Prime Minister, too, talked about this demography, so it will be done in this area. And, of course, that's why we're going to keep you - no matter how your budget is drawn up, you're going to have to find something in here. If you ask me, in the second half, the expansion of ministries, the expansion is unjustifiable, unjustified and unnecessary. And I don't mind, I'm even more happy that we'll have a ministry of local self-government or a coherent regional development, but of course this could be combined and what matters could be reduced. You will remember that there was a speech once -- at least some have talked about it -- about nine ministers. Well, if that were the case, it would be, I believe, even better. You know, in the last few days, there's been some reading in this area. Does the State really lie about poor people - State Secretary Mrs Lidija Apohal has given information that before 35,000 beneficiaries of social assistance, now 44,000 - this means that it is increasing - she also said that they are coming to the Red Cross and so on, of course also to the municipalities, to those institutions that are in the local community - Karitas, the Red Cross and so on - people are coming and so on. So mainly - by the law completely unacceptable: last year the father was employed and this year he lost his job, they exceeded the price this year, the children cannot go to school because they have no money. This year they cannot survive and there is no possibility of education. I've already intervened personally because we're just from these areas, you can't do anything but help people like that in a certain year, when that happens, help - one way or another. It's mostly about getting a scholarship. But of course, administratively, I was told what I could and could not do. According to official data - 14% of poverty; that is, 14% of households are poor, according to other data 60%. I don't think he's holding one or the other. The truth will be around here somewhere: 30% of households in Slovenia are poor. And, ladies ministers, be aware of this, this is a serious problem. The serious problem is - if you read: He froze in his own house. Frozen in the Slovenian Gorges! Not first, I'm afraid, sorry not last. And you know, he didn't provide health insurance, so he couldn't even see a doctor. When he was recently taken to the hospital by a ambulance, they helped him, but without insurance he could not remain in the hospital. And they sent him home and he froze to death. God grant him eternal peace and peace! That's sad. There's a lot of cases like this. You'll say the local community is responsible for this. Yes! Just, please, with this minimum, which is now being applied to the local community, you can't. That's too much. There are too many obligations. And she needs to sit down and seriously think about it and do something about it. The future minister, opportunity and extreme time is to think about what things you will handle, of course, from the state level to the local level. In this way, of course, some things come more to people and they know much more, and because they are in direct contact with people, they decide and identify who is really needed - that such things do not happen to us. Unfortunately, since time is so damn limited and too limited, it would be right, ministers, to talk about it more seriously and have more time - unfortunately the leadership said it would not allow us - but I have to finish. But I wonder, of course, where is this social issue, if it has been in this coalition for two years and it has been considered as a party to the Social Democrats, a unified list; so let us think a little more seriously about it and deal with such problems - not only with Elan and those large millions of euros in private pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Kangler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished candidates, distinguished candidates for the Minister! Slovenia needs a strong, stable and effective government at the moment. Why? According to my previous speaker, who spoke, I think the leader of the parliamentary group thinks the time of the second half. This second half will be given that for 2003 I expect hard work, given that the 2004 state-level elections will be less hard work and a little more careful work. This other half of this government is marked by the fact that we have received a new Prime Minister. I hope and in view of some of the concerns and some of the questions that I raised to the Prime Minister at the time before the appointment itself, that it was not only the conductor of this government that the conductor was also replaced. Why? If you compare Mr Rope's performance as Prime Minister and the performance of the former Prime Minister in 2000 at the time of the act, I can see that this candidate, if he uses a different conductor stick than the previous Prime Minister, can slightly reduce this centralisation, which is being strengthened in this country at a given time. In his words - and the Prime Minister - you must realize that there is no one in this country who is above you. You're the first one in charge of the government's work. Only God is still above you. It seems ridiculous to someone, but being Prime Minister is not a small responsibility: with such a team that has not changed significantly. On this team, however, individuals who are professionally subdued but who have shown their political actions and decisions to strengthen centralism by their current work of a two-year term. I trust the Prime Minister himself - given the support he received in the National Assembly, very much support, few of which the Prime Minister has received so much support - that his conductor stick will dictate the pace and music of this government slightly differently. Especially when we are talking about more coherent regional development, when we are talking about decentralisation, which is a pressing problem and the emergence of our young country. In my performance on the election of the Prime Minister, I said: "Maribor did not build only Ljubljana in the previous system. Maribor built all of Yugoslavia. Maribor was one of the largest economic cities, with all the hard industry it strengthened the whole country. And the responsibility for the economy in those parts and regions that are significantly lagging behind from statistics is a fundamental change in the responsibility of all of us, regardless of the political parties we come from." And don't forget that work, those acts that were, and those people who created and worked for this country in that end of Slovenia! Of course, centralisation is also present mainly in the field of human resources. I hope to say that, regardless of political parties and of us, the Members who are sitting in this national assembly - we are very much dismayed by these phenomena of Slovenian politics. The opportunity, Prime Minister-respected, with your team, you have - given that it is difficult to convert part of the team half-time into a global one, but you have the opportunity, through state secretaries, some other officials and through your personal political influence, to strengthen decentralisation in this country through your work and activity, including through the human resources policy that is urgently needed. We have received a ministry without a charter for more coherent regional development - everything beautiful and good. While this candidate or minister for more coherent regional development will have to tighten up all the strengths, all the abilities she has, with the already proposed 2003 and 2004 state budget. Personally with her knowledge and influence, and with her views and expertise she has, she will not be able to influence the budget changes that we will adopt today and tomorrow. I wonder whether it is the responsibility of the European Union alone to ensure that the differences between the two regions are reduced through their programmes and decentralisation projects for a more coherent regional development of Slovenia. No, the responsibility lies first with us in this Slovenian country, and then the European Union comes with its programmes! This is a very important question that is emerging. First, we must make sure that Slovenia begins to develop more coherently, more evenly regionally, and then we can ask for the help of the European Union. It also showed that there are some projects in the European Union for more coherent regional development and that we are walking in some projects ourselves. And I will be very happy if these projects with its activity run a little faster and look at the end of the black tunnel light and come to realization. However, I fear that the mandate of this government before me will expire. However, it is important, regardless of who comes after us, that some programmes and projects are so set up that those who replace us and you as government representatives in the next term can carry out these projects and try to ensure more equitable, coherent regional development. Dear Prime Minister, I have mentioned the importance and influence of the Prime Minister's Secretary-General even when you are acting as Prime Minister. It is very important what tactics will be between the Prime Minister, the Secretary-General of the Government and individual members of the government. I hope - For now I will support this government, because I am sure it is a conductor with a new stick that will have a hearing for more coherent regional development. If it does not come from the government, I will stand up to it personally and with my political activity, as far as I can, to all those projects that will continue to strengthen centralisation in the political, economic and economic spheres, too. Let me wish you happy, joy in this other half, merry Christmas and that no matter what words have been said by the coalition or by opposition colleagues, they will be heard and that all together with us, with you, will try to do the best for the good of all of us citizens of the Republic of Slovenia tomorrow. All of us, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Since Mr Drobnic has given up his debate, I give the floor to Mr Branko Kelemini. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! In the beginning, I would like to point out this and remind everyone that this whole circus we're dealing with today must cost a lot. But nobody wants to talk about it, of course we're creating new ministries, new jobs and so on. Even all this time we spend needlessly and we've already spent it and we're going to spend it, it costs a lot of money. All of this might not be necessary if the main party or the main protagonists of this country were to regulate things slightly differently, more wisely. But good. That's why it doesn't matter to you because you obviously have enough money if you don't, but you're gonna take credit to pay for it. I'd like to point out something else. Indeed, the mandate-holder is more in the end, if I recall correctly, he said the following words. "A better and better life for all citizens and citizens." Nice. It sounds good, but, Commissioner, that's impossible. That's just impossible. How can you come in such an easy way with such a floscule before the Slovenian public and give them a better and better life for everyone? Now I don't know if you're deliberately deceiving or where the reasons are for your statement. In fact, if we look back just a little bit, in the last ten years, when you were one of the main actors in all the events in this country, you were doing the exact opposite. Now, based on the fact that you have made the Prime Minister, we believe that in the future you will now create a better life and a better quality of life for all citizens in the next two years. You won't! I'm not going to walk now after what you've done for the last ten years. But if I just mention one thing, ownership. Look, your candidate for finance minister said this, among other things, about ownership in 1996: "Our privatisation model is amazing, because it gives people the feeling that they got something while at the same time allowing for a wonderful reallocation of assets to each other." His wonder, then, is that you take something away from someone, and he is even satisfied with it. That's exactly what happened! That's exactly what happened, my respects. And why did all this happen? But it happened because you destroyed the country's control system at all levels. For the first time, you have destroyed the opposition with all the resources you have at your disposal - capital, domination, media - and, on the other hand, you are with a legislative system such as you have set yourself up to do everything within the framework of legality. In fact, you are working against Slovenian citizens and citizens. That's the whole point. And you destroyed all the institutions of control in this country. Let's just look at the Institute of the Court of Auditors. If you find irregularities, you minimize to the spot everything you've done, or you put incredible pressure on the judges of the Court of Auditors as an independent institution in this country, so that your reports must then be presented to those of your interests that you want. Look at just one example, I hope you've read what a newspaper says: "Little crooks in jail, big money at the bank." It's a living truth, and it wasn't made up by me, but it was invented by people of your own kind, from LDS. See also what he says: "To get into a circle of highly educated people dealing with economic crime is even more difficult than to get into a criminal drug dealer association." That's what your people said. Can you imagine? Have you read these articles, you? Read that for yourself. This is worth considering this new authority being put in place. I wonder if you'll take that into account. And now I'm wondering how you're going to make a better life for everyone. Or is it possible, with the social assistance that this country is providing enormous resources for, rather than, of course, putting in place, in the transition process that we have had in ten years, where it would be necessary to have productive jobs today. With social assistance, you will create a quality life today, or with charity, so that everyone will kneel before you and ask you for mercy. Wrong politics, I'll tell you the truth! On average, they're beautiful. For example, if I have two, three million wages, my neighbor, my friends in the congregation, who is one of the most retarded in the country, have 60, 70, 80,000 wages. The average is wonderful. But what is the quality of these people's lives, and you don't ask yourself. All I know is that, on one occasion, I have even asked the government an ironic, shameless question about how people should survive with 60, 70, 80,000 tolars of wages, if in the family, let's say, just one piece. Tell them what to buy, what to eat, which bills to pay, which bills to pay. Of course, there was no answer in a single word because you can't give it because you can't give it because there's no answer because these people can't survive. But they survive, I don't know, with a miracle. Only miracles happen in this country, apparently. Without some normal procedures, they certainly cannot survive. And what does an average Slovenian actually need? He doesn't need anything but work. But you, with the transition system, destroyed that main quality of our people. Not only can low-educated workers today not be employed - and they lose because of the transition of our common property into private hands - not only can low-educated workers not be employed; also highly educated, graduate people cannot be employed. And young people can't get a job. Take a look at the calls when individuals apply for jobs - for an ordinary storekeeper, some highly educated people apply for 60, 70 applications! And do you feel the pressure and problems of people in these cases? I guess not. This is your tenth concern, and of course you are not interested in these people. And how do we create the quality of life for these people? You bureaucrats and ministers are certainly not going to make it. You won't, ever! This can only be done by us, people who live on earth, who live in congregations, who know how to help people, how to survive. But you're doing the opposite. You centralize all the capital in Ljubljana, everything happens here with you, and we live. Just look at my congregation, Sevnica, for example, what is the quality of these people's lives? Where? Come and see the quality of life! Where in a company where there are 200 employees, 5% of people do not have the average Slovenian average wage. Not even 5%! And that's the quality of life? When are we gonna change that? When are you going to change this When we ask - because we know how these things need to be settled in local communities, we know we have already proved this - and when we demand better, fairer funding from the municipalities that will handle these issues and problems, say: we have nowhere to take them, tell us where to take them. Yeah, well, where to take it, please, somewhere else - give us what belongs to us, and absolutely nothing else. What is our right and what belongs to us by the Constitution. Give this back to us, what we have invested in the state budget, we demand absolutely nothing else. And stop with all the help and all the forms of some kind of charity that you share at different levels - for example, companies and so on, some grants. That's absurd! Half the money before he gets to the company, he gets lost on the way. Spend half your money on your bureaucratic procedures or more. Is that rational? Change the community funding system so that we can have it ourselves and the effects will be visible soon. But you don't want to do that because you want to control the whole system because you want to control every job, to be precise. And, of course, it also provides you with permanent domination. In short, because I have to finish because I no longer have time at my disposal, only this: I would like to say, of course, to respectable citizens, to citizens, if you have or already have a low pension or you will not have it at all, know that it is and will be a great culprit for this gentleman who has been actually regulating these things in this area for decades - our future mandate-holder. If you are and will be unemployed, even poorly paid, know that it is and that this will be the great fault of the mandate holder and, of course, his team and the power structure that exploits you. And if you're hungry and you're cold, instead of Christmas dinner, you'll have an empty table and despair at home, but know that it's the fault of those sitting here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Maria Ana Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, candidates for the new Slovenian government. I've been to some of your shows, and there's something I can make sure of. In particular, I was deeply hurt or felt the lack of your strategy and some sort of order to solve the problems you see in your ministries. I was not convinced by Dr. Gaber as a candidate for the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. First of all, I am disturbed by his ambiguity in advocating for the integral financing of higher education and also of secondary education. Is he advocating the abolition of the school tolar? In such uncertainty, Mr. Future Minister, we must not be left behind. Nor did Dr. Gaber present a clear position towards the establishment of a medical university in Maribor, nor did he indicate that he would try to deal with the medical profession about solving this problem. Our main expectation in the field of secondary education is to review the network of secondary schools and, where necessary, adapt the network to the needs by bringing the secondary school closer to all interested students. In rural areas, many children cannot go to a remote secondary school, since parents may still be able to pay for one child’s transportation, whereas for the other or for the third, they may no longer be able to pay for one child. We know what the problem is with funding universities. At both universities and research institutes, a much higher percentage of all projected funds are used solely for salaries the payment of which is provided by law. Therefore, the funds for material costs and investments are reduced to extremes. Both universities and other public research institutions of the crisis, as all the planned programmes must be cut down precisely because of the lack of funds dedicated to the material needs of teaching and research work. Dr. Gaber is probably well aware of all these problems because he said that their resolution would be a nut market, but he did not indicate any guidelines on how he would resolve it. When asked about the role of a school, which should not only educate but also educate, the candidate for a minister replied that, of course, the school must provide certain values, but we know that in practice it does not take too much for such a school. I believe that a lay school enters into a dialogue with the cultural environment, while a lacy school ignores this dialogue. Lack of values in a person leads to disorderly relationships, into a world of drug addiction, alcohol and a negative attitude towards himself, as a result, even suicide. Since we certainly do not want all these consequences, we insist that this attitude be taken into account. The school should also raise children into conscious citizens, and home education should also be introduced into schools. There was something about that talk, but not at the school ministry. Otherwise, Slovenians will find it more difficult to maintain their national identity, especially when entering international ties. We have a feeling that Dr. Gaber will not intervene in the field of education in schools and will leave this to the subtlety of teachers and professors. Such an approach is certainly overly relaxed. He also elegantly avoided the issue of introducing tuition and solving this problem. He pushed it down a little bit in 2005. However, we know that a scholarship system and a credit policy must be put in place before schooling can be introduced. Of course, that wasn't the point. I'm sorry, Dr. Gaber didn't convince me that he was a good candidate for the Minister of Education. I still have comments on the other minister, this is Dr. Kebra. The programme presented by Minister Keber prior to his first term two years ago was acceptable to our client. During his ministry, it appeared that the Minister had opened up a number of problems in the areas of health, health care and health insurance, which, for the time being, had caused a very high level of dissatisfaction, both between health workers and patients. To the National Assembly, the government or its ministry submitted a series of novels, which were no longer or less lifeless and did not improve anything, but only complicated a situation that had not already been pink. We very much miss Dr. Kebra's work on primary health. In his work, the Minister is unaware of the differences between patients in rural and urban areas. Unfortunately, he is using his energy in the wrong order and on the wrong strategy. I want a strong strategy to be put in place and to solve health problems from basic health up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidates for ministers! We have before us a proposal for candidates for ministers, for a new government that people normally look at with expectations. Especially because the mandate holders and ministers have wasted the demagogic, populism promises, bloated promises of what the new government will do for them. The political project of propaganda on the future government has been carried out well, brilliantly, in the way of agitprop, also by pressure on journalists with whom I am solidarity, through owners, that more of your propaganda has come into the newspapers than serious questions to ministers. Almost all these false, puffed-up, untrue promises made by the prime minister and the candidates for the ministers came to the media. For example, the promise that the Ministry of Regional Development will be established to finally start looking at Prekmurje, Koroška, Sočko valley, Brkina and so on. Yes, but listen, this is a political project to mask the vast centralisation that is the basic project of this government - the former and the present. Why is this really about centralization? Look, there's a Rosada in the school department. They replaced Minister Čokovo for the University of the Sea, and the University of the Sea is on ice with this. The Minister of Finance has been appointed and has declared himself against the University of the Sea. It's perfectly clear! Log under Mangart - there is no law on Log under Mangart. That money goes elsewhere, these marginal people don't come in. Shocking farmers through the milk affair - this is a project of centralisation and harassment. Moreover, the Minister-designate says she will make a conversion in the 2004 budget, for 2003, of course she will have no resources for regional development, but in 2004, we will accept it today, perhaps. Yes, how, however, if the elected prime minister wanted to rape Parliament in order to adopt this same 2004 budget during an illegal government so that the government could then work in a non-transparent manner, as in the past with the budget, so that the funds could be used for completely different things. These cases were huge. Such promises are supposed to be made by people, and such promises come through here! Then, aren't the referendums just the result of a terrible centralisation? There are a bunch of ministers who, with their untrue anti-human initiatives and laws, are creating new referendums. It's the cry of people for some righteousness. But neither the Minister nor the plebiscite will of the people at the referendums convinces them that a minister has been working something against people, against human will. This project on the regional ministry is therefore a politically fictitious project, such as the fictional ministry, the former Ministry of Desos, to coordinate social programmes. Two years later, when we asked Dessie's minister what he was doing, we put him in a terrible state of embarrassment because he had nothing to show for it. And the Minister without money will also be embarrassed because it is centralisation, not regionalisation. That is why there are no changes in the government. Because in this case we would finally expect someone from Maribor to be a minister, and at least a little more attention to that end of Slovenia. If you really meant it, you'd have done it. Another false promise, or even misleading the public, I saw in the performance, the mandate holder, the minister, Mr Rob on TV: that the government is preparing improvements to the law tabled by the members of the monitoring commission. But what they had in mind was what they had in mind. Complete exclusion of parliamentary oversight of intelligence services. Perfect. He was talking about the German model versus the German model, completely. And when does power fear parliamentary control and even control? When he thinks of non-democratic methods. Totalitarian methods and apparently it's on the march. With things like that. Finally, I would expect you to go totally against parliamentary surveillance of intelligence services. Why do I ask? Let the Commissioner know what they'll be using intelligence services for. Where are those hidden purposes? Then, in my opinion, an unreal promise in the banking pillar - in Slovenia. New Credit Bank + Post Office Bank. But when we hear that the most influential Members of the Liberal Democracy, who, by the way, are not here at all, do so explicitly against this project for the clear private, private purposes of some powerful powers in Slovenia. And we have seen that some ministers are completely indifferent to the negative opinions of the Court of Auditors. What's going on, say - I don't know - at the Post Office of Slovenia, 500 million illegally spent money. That doesn't bother them. See, the problem of objective and subjective responsibility is a key problem in this country for this authority. While this is a fundamental postulate of responsibility and democraticism in the European countries, our ministers have a negative opinion, they clearly express it, to objective responsibility and also subjective, because otherwise this infamous affair in the Celje Hospital, when it comes to small people; 1,400 million allocated money for the awards for Elan's managers, which Minister Petrinova says is the fault of the finance ministry, namely the mandate minister, or the dairy affair, these disastrous consequences, would be the real cause of the resignation, not the candidacy for ministers. Thank you so much for the time that haunts me. You have made it impossible to talk about the problems of Slovenia. We're not allowed. You've disabled us with this rule of procedure. However, it would be necessary to speak about such programme objectives of the government for a few more hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mr President of the National Assembly, who presided over this assembly ahead of me, explained that your Group of Members had been given all the time it had wanted to discuss. Thank you very much. That's not how it's supposed to be. The next word is Mrs Maja Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable candidates, candidates for ministers! Since I only have a few minutes, I'll be very quick. I've had my own "come, see, win" hearing. There was no doubt that the new old candidates for ministers would receive majority support. All the candidates' hearings were timed for a short period of time and virtually completed in one and a half days. Therefore, the mandate holder's comment that the opposition Members had an excellent opportunity did not know how to take advantage of it suggests an incredible mockery. Even if the candidates were to be torn apart verbally, they would not be without support. That's what you've been counting on, and all your contributions haven't been the best. The performances were a tribute to the past work and a picture of the bright future again. However, the answers to the questions ran out of time, or they were ignored in many ways and flattened. Big words, big projects, little about man, about citizens, about citizens. Such a rush to do everything before the new President of the Republic is settled is unbelievable. Time and will also ran out for the renewal of the coalition contract and the new old set, except for a few repairs, is ready. However, we will see whether, honourable candidates, the evidence we have made by Members, at least some, will be understood as incentives for further work. Much success, ladies and gentlemen, for the benefit of all of us, but unfortunately without my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The next word would be Mr. Franz Sušnik, who is not among us. I give my word to Mr. Aloys Sok. Here you go. [[He doesn't want to.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Today we assess the government as a whole. Since most of the proposed ministers are the same and the government policy is run by the same liberal party as in the past two years, we can assess this government not according to the programmes and the promises of the word but also according to its fruits. But these gardens are not brilliant, and among them there are so many weeds and so many mistakes that they would really need a double time, as suggested by colleague Jerovšek, if we would at least list them. Allow me to mention in these minutes only one of your mistakes that does not appear to be over. You are increasingly sending such proposals to the National Assembly that are contrary to the principles of justice and public interest. At first, in the artificial fertilization law, you also wanted to enforce such provisions, which were then rejected by three quarters of the participants in the referendum. You wanted to privatize Slovenian railways in such a way as to sell only a profitable part, including 240 holiday apartments in Croatia; how, to whom and at what cost this will be sold will be known by your secretary-general, who is also a member of the railway control board. And again, there was a public out there, and it collected over 62,000 signatures and demanded a referendum, which I have no doubt will succeed. In the Telecommunications Act, you have stipulated that only 20% of overinvestment in the telecommunications network would be reimbursed to creditors. For people who not only paid the cost of telephone connections but also invested eight thousand marks in telephone stations and local networks. And now the government is supposed to rob these investors of their share and sell Telekom well; just as we carried out the longings of Elan through the water, Elan himself invested a few billion taxpayers' money so that the voters could share the dizzying rewards for the successful operation of such a rehabilitated company. Again, she protested the public and collected 69,000 signatures for the referendum. You've further released Sunday's working hours in the Trades Act. Instead of protecting a small man, you handed him over to the employer for mercy and mercy. What kind of merchant would hope to give a capitalist a disagreement about Sunday’s work, even if he has a family and is the mother of three children? She'll be especially afraid of her job. Pop TV received 87,000 phone calls at the time of Trenja’s broadcast, of which 85% were on Sunday’s trades. Apparently, there will also be a referendum to protect the little man. This seems to be the only way for the public to resist the arrogance of liberal politics; those arrogant people who do not only show that individual ministers are blind and deaf for the initiatives of civil society and for the plight of a small man, but also show themselves in ignoring the warnings and proposals of the opposition. Politics that are incapable of self-reflection, rather than self-criticians and ignores any external criticism, is sooner or later the victims of human monopolies and rich corruption - the government and with it the whole country. Well, as a Christian, I wish you a blessed Christmas, whether this government will also be a blessing for Slovenia and we will see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I also participated in the "hearing" presentation of the candidate for Minister, Mr Dusan Marble. [[...]] Above all, I wanted to find out, on the one hand, whether there are any real indicators and signs that, on the one hand, a critical situation in the area of public finances and, lastly, the forecasts that I welcome and in the presentation of the candidate have been very well taken, presented and pointed out on the one hand, whether these things can also happen in reality or will only be left with predictions or good wishes. Personally, I think that despite the good intentions that I do not doubt, and despite the vast knowledge that I do not doubt, it will be very difficult to do something crucial, and this is that somehow it normalizes the public finances system in Slovenia and makes this system more transparent and not least to take care of with others, with another team in the government and, finally, with the Bank of Slovenia for the key problem of Slovenia, it is inflation in the coming period. I'm afraid I'm pessimistic about the success of the announcement. Why? Because of this, as Dr Brejc has already presented on behalf of the Group of Members, a number of candidates for ministers have indicated an increase in budgetary expenditure in their specific areas. On the other hand, we all find that the expenditure of public spending on the goals set by the same government at the beginning of the mandate, when we spoke, if I understood correctly, about 42%, we are now going over 44% of the gross domestic product. And I think it's going to be very difficult to balance, on the one hand, all these predictions, all these promises, and on the other hand the cruel reality that follows us every day. In short, there is a very large gap between what we are saying on one side and, of course, it will serve the opposition even in the coming period to put these papers back together, these promises at the table, and we will analyse them again when we support or do not support a similar set of ministers in the future. In short, I draw attention to one of the key problems of the current government and the incoming government, which is more or less the same. In this gap between the said word in this House and, of course, between these results, which we do not take from some of our political instruments, but from the analyses made by this national assembly or by other services, governments can also. This seems crucial to me, and it seems to me a key problem to how to continue to believe. It's like if someone once promised us something in life, it doesn't come true -- it's very hard for us to believe in another promise. But I would like to highlight another important segment, which is the Institute of Objective Responsibility. This has not been established in the Slovenian government, many for little things have been abandoned by ministers because of their objective responsibilities. In our case, however, Elan happens, there is a dairy affair, there is any other affair; the Institute of Objective Responsibility, respected representatives of the Slovenian Government, we do not really know Slovenia and unfortunately we have not successfully implemented it. I would therefore appeal here to the distinguished Prime Minister to only stress this more objective responsibility of government representatives, ministers, when things actually go wrong. It does not matter whether that specific minister is subjectively responsible for the matter. It is right to make some change, some space, and some objective responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. And as last notified in the framework of the notified time, Mr Ivan Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The last government divided the Ministry of Transport and Communications into two parts: the Ministry of Information Society and the Ministry of Transport. I don't know what the government was after, but I do know that this has led to an increase in the number of ministries and, as a result, ministers. The government we are deciding today intends to expand with another ministry, this time the Ministry of Regional Development or the Minister. Despite the statements of the need for rational behaviour of the state! Isn't that a bit contradictory? Even though we are a small country, there are larger countries, such as the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which is dominated by one minister. So why did the last government set up the Ministry of Transport, and why the Ministry of Information Society? The Ministry of Transport is likely to have satisfied the wishes of the coalition of the Slovenian People's Party, which requested at least three ministries, and the Ministry of Information Society is likely because Telekom was expected to be sold. And such a project should be carried out under the watchful eye of the Ministry of LDS, namely Minister Ganttar. This means that the government could not trust the entire Ministry of Transport and Communications with the Ministry of the Presecnik. Mr. Presecnik himself has no power in his department. That's obvious. And neither is his client. The evidence is that in the time of the Minister's absence, which was slightly longer due to severe health reasons, his work was temporarily taken over by Minister Gantar and not by someone from his SLS party. The Ministry of Transport can easily spend the money that the government is committed to it. It is true that the National Assembly approves the programme for the construction of Slovenian motorways, but it is proposed by the government and the programme is always voted on, as it is supported by members of the coalition, who are numerously represented in the vast majority. Why do I only have highways in mind? For I am troubled by the use of a gas tolar, even though it has been discussed so far. With the purpose of spending only this money and the interest we pay on the loans we have been hired, we would have made a substantial number of motorways. I hope that this statement will also be heard by the new Minister of Finance and that he will not comply with the strict orders of the Government or the mandate-holder. Now, if I talk about other activities such as, say, Slovenian aviation, as well as maritime activities. This is so small that the Ministry cannot cause much concern. However, we know about railway infrastructure that it is not developing, but through guarantees for loans that enable the survival of railway workers and the urgent maintenance of infrastructure, only animals.Mr. Preseknik should think hard about these facts and with the blessing of the government should do something about it. Because of unhealthy rail policy, we'll even have a referendum. Will our country be decided by referendums? We've already had Kebra's referendum, and we're going to have the Intercessor's and the Gantars', and I don't know. Are we going to have referendums in this country alone? All of the above confirms our decision not to support the proposed candidate for Minister of Transport. I'd like to add something else about the second track. So far, there's been a lot of talk about the second track from Kopra to Divaca. Now it's all dead. It is said that this second track is no longer viable, that the cargo has decreased so much that it is a question of whether it will be worth doing a second track or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We exhausted part of the debate when we went in the order of things, just as MEPs and Members have notified themselves of the word. I now ask the Prime Minister as a candidate for the list of candidates for the appointment of ministers, does he want a word? Here you go, mag. Anton Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u74	Dear Members and honourable Members! First of all, I should like to thank all those Members of Parliament for their support and the Members and Members who have given it to us. We will try to meet your expectations, but of course the expectations of citizens and citizens in particular. At the same time, I would like to stress that we will take seriously all the comments that have been made here today, so that we will seriously examine all the comments made by the opposition and all the Members who have been critical, both at the hearings or the "hearings" of the candidates for ministers as well as today. I agree that there is still a need to improve cooperation between the government and parliament in order to do much in the area of better law-making, better quality of laws and overall legislative procedures. We will try to take the position into account in our work and, of course, also the opposition in all those proposals that will make sense and that will go in the direction of faster and better implementation of our programmes. In particular, I would like to stress that today it has been particularly exposed here, the sensitivity of the government, the sensitivity of the Prime Minister and also of the members of the government to the life that is going on and to the reality. We will try to make a government sensitive to the real problems of individuals and individuals. You have pointed out some problems today, and it is also right to note specific and real problems. I also agree with you that there has been a great deal of promise that the programme that we have presented here is ambitious, that we will have to face reality, real public finances, and the real possibility of exposing individual projects in a relatively short time. And as you have rightly found, the promise of doing a debt, and the promise of making a debt and commitment of all of us, me and my colleagues, that what we promised, we will carry out further. I am sure that we will all do everything together that we can, that is in our power, that we are able to fulfill these promises and that, of course, at the end of this term of office, we are going to end with as little debt as possible. And in the end, I'm sure the electorate and the electorate will be the ones to judge whether our work was good or bad. We will do everything in our power to make our work good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u75	Mr. Prime Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At 2.45 p.m., time was announced, so it's 2:45 p.m. when we vote. I therefore ask Members and Members, in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, because we have 60 minutes before us, whether anyone else wants to discuss it. I ask you kindly to raise your hand on this issue to count you and then we can divide the time between you. Just a moment, if you can get your hands in the air, please. If you'll excuse me, I would like to read the names of the Members and Members who have come to the debate that we may not have overlooked anyone: Mr Kelemina, Mr Sušnik, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Peče, Mr Kebrič, Mr Tsukati. Anyone else? Mr. Petty Officer, Dr. Bernick. Is that all? Thank you very much. Everyone has 6 minutes to stay with the proposer if you'd like a word. In the following order you will get the word: Kelemina, Sušnik, Jerovšek, Pece, Kebrič, Tukjat, Drobnič, Bernik. First of all, Mr. Kelemina has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that again. I would just like to draw attention to one problem that I have not been able to say because of the lack of time, so that it may then continue to be taken into account and realized in some way or to solve this pressing problem. In fact, even citizens or citizens inform me about certain things, and I myself know these things because I was also an entrepreneur, a craftsman, and I know that this really exists or that we generally know that. Indeed, as a whole, the system in terms of entrepreneurship and craftsmanship is very unfair, especially in those parts where it does not protect small businesses and small craftsmen as it is in other developed countries of the European Community, in order to ensure their normal operation on the basis of the payment of their services and their works. Look what's going on. Many times, for various reasons, small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, never receive services paid for the bankruptcy of a large company or for a variety of other reasons. And what happens? Traders, entrepreneurs have to pay VAT before they even cash anything. They have to. This is a legal obligation because we just went to pay VAT for an invoiced realization. Then they have to pay all the contributions from wages and other taxes that follow, pay the material, pay the workers who have worked, and never get paid, or at a very high rate, even a few years - especially if the matter goes to court, but if it comes to a settlement, we know what percentages these people get back. There's something we need to do to protect these little craftsmen, the entrepreneurs. This is the enormous potential of Slovenian people, the creativity of our people, but in this way, if we try every attempt to give them a rope around our neck with tax policy and tighten it, it will not work. Why there is no understanding of such matters if payments are not made, that no VAT is required of these people, and that no other contributions are required from craftsmen in order to satisfy the legal provisions laid down by that State. And they also tell me that this is a robbery, they say, of private property and that interest on these things is then sometimes more than 100 - no, 300, 400%, if I can speak like that, or if the interest on some principal, 400,000, for example, is a few years later, it's a few million. And they can't pay for it, they can't! Because of the huge late interest rate, the gross late interest rate, perhaps even the unconstitutional late interest. We've tried to reduce you and we've cut them down here in the National Assembly minimally because you didn't get a confession. All the interest in the whole country, all around the world, is shrinking as such, and we have late interest really high. And here in this area there will be something else to be done and these late interest rates will be slightly reduced, especially where things like these are now being reported to you. That's it. Also, try to keep this in mind if we are to allow at least those simple poor people who work with their hands to serve bread so that they can do so in an approximately dignified way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In the introductory address, you gave an appropriate or central weight to regional development and regionalisation. In this area, I believe that expectations are more than too high or I hope to say that they are greater than they can be done, even given the resources you have allocated in 2003, 2004 to direct incentives in accordance with the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. I think and fear that policy in this area will continue in the past years to continue the negative attitude towards coherent regional development that we have witnessed since the adoption of the law on the promotion of coherent regional development in the second half of 1999. If you don't mind, I'd justify it. The relationship already shows that, contrary to Article 9 of the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development, the government has not produced a single report which should be submitted annually to the National Assembly and reported in this report on the implementation and implementation of the law and the strategy for the regional development of Slovenia. You haven't prepared a single report on this subject according to my behavior. According to Article 19 of the Act, by the year 2000, 0.5% of the gross social product should be allocated to direct incentives in those parts of Slovenia that are more than 20% lagging behind after gross social product, by purchasing power or by unemployment, but unfortunately this has not happened. In these years, I argue that in the form of direct incentives, all together in these areas, only a good percentage of gross social product has been channelled, and this claim may or may have been very bold. I think it would be fair for all those who expect this law to be implemented, who expect and build their development on regional incentives, that we simply cannot devote what we have written in the law to this area. This is: for 2003, direct incentives should be implemented, which is 1% of the gross social product, if I have read correctly. From the words of the candidate for Minister without a regional development card, which I heard at the hearing, 7 to 8 billion were allocated to this. Be so honest, do not deceive people who are waiting for these regional incentives, and let the National Assembly amend this law, in which you will write that 0.15% of gross social product is devoted to regional development, in order for the matter to be as it should be. Since I'm running out of time very quickly, I'd say the latter. It's interesting, Mr. Mag. Robbery that you did not mention agriculture in your introductory address. This also points to the attitude of this government towards agriculture. You did not mention agriculture without which there is no consistent regional development. I'm scared, and unfortunately I don't believe the words mags. Bootha, who promised to improve the economic situation of agriculture in 2004. I do not believe because negative trends in agriculture continue. Self-sustainment in Slovenia is falling. The economic situation in agriculture, the protection, the hopelessness that is present in this area does not give good promises to our agriculture, our farmer does not give good promises to rural areas and does not give good promises to coherent regional development without rural development. I just want to say one more thing here. I remembered, Mr. candidate Booth, your words when you said you would advocate a strong training of the veterinary administration of the Republic of Slovenia to act in accordance with the requirements of the legal order. It was a process that you've given him all the attention in the last two years. See, the chloramphenicol affair here completely denies you; if this administration were really that qualified and capable, it would not be what is happening at this point in time, so that they do not know how and how milk infections occur with this antibiotic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Your Honor, the Honourable Commissioner! I'm very happy with your answer, now the last one. On the basis of this reply, the Slovenian public could convince themselves in front of the TVs and outside the doors how the opposition could take advantage of the opportunities on "hearings". Your answer to the specific questions was just as they were given to us on the most specific questions the candidates asked. And that's what you mocked in front of the public that we didn't use it. However, today you have also answered the specific questions with 'we will improve' - no concrete answer. Of course, you need to improve, because if you don't improve, this team, then Argentina, bankrupt; the greater deficit in the state treasury, the bigger holes we can't afford anymore. But we ask why this Typhoon privatisation continues, and today it has been mentioned. We have more typhoon than in Croatia, where this authority shows and where they have Typhoon privatisation. Minister Marble, who in the 1990s has been the supreme admirer of our companies and has issued licences, will probably answer more why this has happened - this typhoon privatisation. Why do we have a handful of financial laity that decides which one leads you? Why don't we - so many times - listen to this government, this authority for the education of young people from the periphery, from remote places where some children have already moved in hard conditions and could create better experts on which there could be a lot of building in the future in the Slovenian nation. These, at the expense of the privileges of others who can sometimes ride in limousines - you do not want to give them. The answer should be here when the whole of Slovenia is looking at us. Why, who causes this sabotage in milk? It's definitely sabotage and an organized race against farmers. Because as a chemist, I know that if it wasn't for sabotage, everything would have been investigated. It could be. And if these answers are not there - and I'm afraid you're not really ready to change - then I don't know what's ahead. Then we will be in addition to the certificate holes, the holes in pension reform, the deficits that threaten "retirements" in the future of our pensioners, in addition to the budget hole - these holes, all these deficits were produced at the time you were ministers - then we will have new holes, new deficits. I think it's the right place to give answers to the public. Not in narrow television studios when the opposition cannot ask questions! Ladies and gentlemen, I really expect that you will be elected ministers during the period when the scenario is precisely drawn up, predictable and the opposition's ability to actually exploit opportunities, and with this rule of procedure, it is impossible for the opposition here to do more than it has done. But I would really expect these specific answers. And let's say what's already been said: this answer for the Elan case. It has not been announced from the government that the government will now be - for two years now this "roll" issue has been hidden here by these huge millions, billions. This is the right place for a concrete answer. Who's responsible? But in this right place, you don't want to give the right answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u82	Mr. Robb! In your speech, you said "promise works long." Unfortunately, in politics the promise doesn't work long, because if it were, the Liberal Democracy, a client who's been in power for ten years and who you belong to, would have been bankrupt for quite some time. In the opening speech, the Slovenian National Party's comments on government projects mentioned the economy and the finances. However, I would like to touch two more, tax or fiscal policies and justice. As you know, I have already started: 95% of the state budget is made up of so-called tax revenues. In a short time, at least according to government forecasts of experts and politicians, we will be promised some new taxes in Slovenia. Especially on what we Slovenians are good at, it's on debt. In the past period, you know that we have raised the percentage points of VAT and some other services in the area of health and similar things on your proposal or the Members who are following you blindly. But what I'm trying to tell you is that you probably can make it on your team, too, by the economists who can tell you that, of course, increasing tax rates across a certain limit is also a fall in income. It's from the so-called Laffer curve. I am afraid that Slovenia has already gone across this border, so I ask you to take into account, in your budget planning or in your final positive voice, the fact that we Slovenians are already too taxed. As for the second chapter, which I think is one of the most important, namely, the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice, which, of course, is under your wing, the matter is linked to the credibility of the government. As you know, last May the National Assembly adopted a decision restricting the judicial mandate. The National Assembly adopted its decision. Despite the decision of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia makes constitutional changes in a completely different context than the will expressed in this Chamber. Despite the well-known fact from the so-called "twinning project" on the modernisation of the judiciary, where it is found that the Slovenian judiciary by number of employees is much better than in a comparable European region, but that efficiency is much worse, that the salaries of Slovenian judges are much better and similar criteria. Also computer and spatial equipment. In short, I say that the inefficiency of the judiciary, which our country is, of course, exceptional and large, is primarily responsible for a permanent mandate. And when this National Assembly offers a solution in the form of a decision, which I imagine each credible government should accept and take into account in its acts - no, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then under the leadership of Mr Drnovska, makes exactly the opposite move. And these things seem to be harmful to our country. And if this tradition of ignoring or any other negative notion by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to other entities in this society continues, this country will simply not be able to make progress for so long. And to conclude, it may be desire or guidance. Of course it's my wish. Mr Rob, I think it would be very useful if we moved individual state institutions outside the city of Ljubljana. As you know, more than 90% of state institutions carry large amounts of capital, which carry all the logistics associated with the city of Ljubljana. The city of Ljubljana will also acquire some additional funding through the new capital law. However, perhaps, or I am sure, in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia you know that there are other cities. The city of Maribor is even the second most powerful in this respect compared to Ljubljana at zero. What will happen to the other regions if this approach continues, I think the best example of Trbovlje shows. After World War II, this city was the fourth most powerful - and where is it today? In this situation, such as today Trbovlje, all other Slovenian cities can be located within ten years if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not change its way of thinking and if we do not begin to realize that negotiations for the European Union are too small if it is negotiated only by Ljubljana. However, I would like to give another note to all those Members who are so congratulating on the entry or conclusion of the negotiations. You know, the money, the money that you're all so happy about that we got to Slovenia and that there will be a clear and loud display of the difference, the selectivity made by Brussels to individual members of candidates or permanent members, that from their treasury - in Greece they receive more than 450 pounds, Slovenia will only receive them 41 times less - unfortunately - ten times less. And if this is the success of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then it is also a success that we have only as many unemployed as we have. But I don't think this should be the goal of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Your Honor! As I speak for myself, I speak from the experience I have gained in the past and current mandate. We believe that in the global context, as I said on behalf of the Group of Members, it has been assessed on our part that the work at the beginning was good in this first part of the mandate. But there's nothing so good that it couldn't have been better. And that is what Mr President of the future government has announced. Personally, I believe that those ministers who continue the second part of their mandate will benefit not only from experience but also from analyses that will give them where there is room for improvement. On the other hand, the analysis will also show those who take a new step in this second part of the government’s mandate, not only will it be necessary, but it will be absolutely necessary to look at the work of the predecessors, to find what might be, but not only perhaps, which is not actually done by you. When we look at the experience, they tell me, at least from the areas in which I work in the home work bodies of the National Assembly, because these areas are very close to me, and on the other hand, I also devote more detail to these areas. Mr Prime Minister, your business will - in view of the experience you have gained in the past two ministries - to complement not only these two ministries with your experiences, but your main task will be to coordinate the work. You agree to teamwork on your own, but teamwork and division needs a coordinator, needs a head that connects all those desires and needs. What citizens expect, at least those Members who are very much among voters, not only every Monday in their sent offices, but also on Saturdays and Sundays, when we meet on such or other occasions, they are predicting and asking us for certain answers. They want to see a vision. This vision, or their expectations, is as follows: not just an individual standard for which everyone wants to improve, but also a general standard, because these two must necessarily be synchronized, because neither one nor the other is supposed to be premature. Here the expectations of citizens are very, very concrete. However, I think it will be necessary to distribute the funds, because this morning you could have heard, we would all like to have a larger share of the social gross product for our department. But agree on how we're going to divide, whether on this salary, that social security will have a reputation - sorry, it's not the most respectable term, so I'm fixing it - that it will have the right place if we have a social and legal state written down in the constitution. This problem of poverty - and here there is also a large proportion of pensioners with the lowest pensions, although they had a full working time, to get even more because they were in companies where they had relatively low salaries and due to these low salaries even lower contributions, and they now need a protective supplement for at least the basic standard. However, I think it is wrong to say that the lowest wages must also provide social support for survival. I say and place it on your heart that it is imperative that all these benefits be given to those who have not been able or otherwise have not been sufficiently able to provide them with a decent survival. With this appeal, I end up with you as Prime Minister and all the ministers so you can have this in front of your eyes. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Tsukati has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u86	Thanks again for saying that. Since the Commissioner has mentioned that he will examine our comments, he would use these minutes to address some of his thoughts. In fact, health concerns all citizens, we are probably the only ones, and all ministries, not only the Minister of Health, but also we are probably the only ones responsible not only for the Minister of Health, but for the whole government. If so, then I wonder how the Minister of Health can predict the transfer of additional insurance to compulsory insurance, thereby raising the common health contribution rate by some 4 percentage points, how, without the Minister of Finance or the mandate holder commenting. How can the Minister of Health deal with working time in a direct frontal dispute with operators, with doctors, without calling the Minister of Labour if he wants to build his policy on social dialogue? Does the government have any methodology for identifying the actual problems that citizens have with health care? Problems of how doctors change on duty, when one ends, when the other begins, are not patients’ problems. Patients have problems, how long will they wait for the investigation, the operation, whether it will be one week, or it will be two years and whether this supply will be quality, timely, reliable and similar. Patients have a problem with whether in old decaying buildings the central heating pipes will burn. These are problems that should be solved if, of course, we want to solve patients’ problems. Does the government have any methodology, not only to detect these problems, but also to influence the policies of each ministry? We said the minister is appointed by the mandate holder and is also responsible for him. It's true. It is necessary to be aware, and as a politician, you will be well aware, and the mandate-holder who is supposed to act in a state-of-the-art manner is well aware that it is not difficult to argue with workers, trade unions, doctors. That's not hard. And it's not hard to get the public up against the cops, against the teachers, against the doctors, against the judges. That's not hard. It's not hard. It is very difficult and very hard to work together, to negotiate, to attract all these professions, as I said, to some state-of-the-art operation. That's hard. And we will not judge you, Commissioner, after your work, you do not have your ministry, we will judge you by the ministers and their work. And health care will judge you, you and your success, after the work of our minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! Mr President, I hope you have listened to questions and comments. Even more so, I hope you have listened to what the ministers at the "hearings" or presentations have said that you will not then be surprised at their perhaps separate policy. I have already mentioned some of these details on behalf of the Group of Members, and I would like to add some more. You're probably aware that things don't go well at the Ministry of Health. I've already advised the Minister of Health to replace his advisors a long time ago, because they suck because they're bad at preparing things for him. Of course, there is also another problem in this ministry that the minister has chosen a methodology for solving problems based on chaos - first creating chaos and then a solution. I'm sure it didn't go well. It can be a method in another field, but certainly not by the minister. The cashier's deficit is increasing. The Minister's direction from his presentation, more than one hour - so I can also tell why the opposition had a little less time for its questions, but some ministers were very extensive - he said he would go in the direction of supporting both services and payment methods. I don't know if you two have agreed whether or not you know this is the principle of a future government. We passed some laws, two or three of them, and after two or three months we completely changed them, the health care law went in exactly the same direction. Minister Dimovski and I had quite a performance at the beginning, not to say exactly the same, but similar views on saving employment, training, rehabilitation of people with disabilities. Unfortunately in this area we have, with a foreign word, an implementation deficit - the difference between actions and words or between theory and practice. Unemployment. These programmes, which would apply to persons in order to better engage in employment, are falling radically. If it's politics or the force of the situation, then you have to deal with the government what it is. We assess the appropriateness of ministers through what they have done so far, those who have done so so far; in others, we will check their performances, their views, how consistent they are with some of the policies you have presented. Reducing education and training resources or reducing integration - this is not a future knowledge society, certainly not. Then 2% of the involvement of disabled workers in professional rehabilitation - this cannot be a society of the future. This cannot be achieved in the economic sector, which is covered by Mrs Petrinov. 20,000 disabled people, 1,000 of whom are employed each year, that means it takes 20 years to hire all of them. Tell that to the citizens, it's a reality. Then you also have Mr. Marble in your future government. I hope that, as far as the payment of taxes, taxes is concerned, it will also apply to all citizens and to all entities, that no management contracts will be exempted from this through legal companies, which are assisted even by civil servants, in order to avoid paying taxes. Or this understanding of the state I do not understand where its civil servants are working and advising people who are also setting them up, how they will avoid paying taxes. Other citizens, who have regular salaries, are, of course, struck at them. Equality is also ensured through equality in the payment of taxes. The distribution of state money, this also applies to Dr. Petrinov. I pointed out that I'm not interested in the amount of money distribution. I wonder if this is such a way to promote market behaviour. Secondly, what are the objectives of this government in terms of the economic development strategy and the aid granted to the economic sector? Those who do not break this market order. There are monopolies, there are increasing monopolies. Through the monopolies, we would like to inform citizens that this is a national interest. Fuck! If the Slovenians own a monopoly that preys on high-priced citizens, it is not a national interest. Mr. Gaber is also on your team. I hope that in the field of education there will be no spatial, temporal and yet I do not know what distinction there is in education. Because some of them are just, I don't know if they're faithful or not faithful. I hope that's how it runs. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] [[...]] Even Mr. Booth. Time is chasing me. You have made a great deal of effort from the European Union, but look, too, Mr Commissioner, what is going on in a specific environment around you, where you live, where the fields are three times seventeen meters, where you can't walk through without stepping on another bike to another land. I believe this is a process, it takes time, and on the other hand, it is also a legacy of the past. Of course, I'm running out of time for the rest of them, but it's no big deal, because the minister or mandate-holder is a man who's going to check out what his candidates for ministers have set up. You will certainly be elected, regardless of the opposition's availability, but I wish you a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. And Dr. Bernick, please. Stand down, Mr. Sok? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I will be so brief as to apologize for what my fellow Member, Petty Officer, has done. The government recognises that this country has financial difficulties, that we have an increasing deficit and that inflation is one of the main problems the government will have to address over the next two years. Nevertheless, it is surprising that this country or this government does not behave as a good master. He's not acting like he's acting like some kind of company who's got a financial problem. In fact, every time we make up a government, this government team gets a little bigger. So two years ago, when you formed the government, I am deeply convinced that, not because of the needs of the citizens, but because of the needs of the ruling coalition, there has been an increase and one Ministry of Information Society has been established, which I do not know, I have not been able to see what this ministry has actually done in these two years, except that it has transmitted to Parliament a controversial law on the return of investments for the development of telecommunications, which will now experience a referendum opinion. But I am concerned that, let's say, Minister Gantar on the one hand is offering us a model of an information society that is supposed to communicate on the modern principles of electronics and all the techniques that the world is going through, but if we go back a little bit, I would like to remind you of the debate in this House that you have been scrupulously opposed to in the budget to provide some funds for the pluralisation of the media in this country. I must say this because, as a member or a member of the opposition, I constantly feel that this media space in this country is unbalanced. And you don't have to cut back a long way, just in time before this year's election. I could bring you all the polls that have been published in our daily media and I'll only mention data for three parties. In none of the surveys, for example, the Liberal Democracy was shown as a party that would receive less than 24% of the votes at local level, while Nova Slovenija and Slovenian People's Party were not shown in any survey as customers who would receive more than 4.5%. If you compare the actual result now, you can see how these media help build this power of liberal democracy in the Republic of Slovenia. She didn't actually get 24%, she got less. The Slovenian People's Party and Nova Slovenija once more than the media have shown it. This is, of course, the way we work and the way we help you, and we will always be able to tell you this until you do something to make this pluralisation more balanced in this Slovenian space and until you offer us some fantastic information society, but you will not perform that basic one. It is enough to ensure, as is the case in most parliamentary democracies, that people can monitor parliamentary meetings. Perhaps we would also improve the presence at the sessions themselves, so that the report of the Ombudsman would not be debated outside the empty hall and so on. Now that this re-establishment of the government has taken place, of course, these party appetites and interests are being re-established.This time, the Democratic Party of the Retirement will be satisfied and once again a new ministry is being established, which we already know in advance, that because of its lack of financial resources, it will probably be dedicated to itself, only that the appetite of this coalition party will be satisfied and that President Rons will be in his predictions that he will endure to the end, be comforted and satisfied. Is it in the interest of this country that, in such a way, the mandate-holder, new structures are being put in place to foresee in law that you will have officials, as Prime Minister, this insists on a ruling coalition, which Dr. Brejc has already discussed today, how it goes beyond the law on civil servants. We have "No" offices in this Republic of Slovenia, which the government probably doesn't even know about, or the mandate holder doesn't know what they're doing. Perhaps for the end, because I told you that the minute that Comrade Drobnic spent, I would advise you to consider at last and maybe set up another office to be called the Office for the Killing of Offices and reward him with its effectiveness and thus actually begin to implement the anti-biocratic programme that you have entered into a coalition contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u91	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'm closing the debate. At 2.45 p.m., as announced earlier this morning, we will hold a full vote on the list of candidates for ministers. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. So, at 2.45 p.m., we're going to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u92	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Prime Minister, candidates for ministers and candidates for ministers! In accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the appointment of ministers shall be voted on by voting on the list of candidates for ministers as a whole. I therefore put to the vote the next draft decision, on which I will be able to explain my vote, three minutes on behalf of the Group of Members and two minutes as a Member or a Member. I will put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly shall appoint: Dr. Dimovski's Government, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Dr. Dusan Marble for Minister of Finance. Dr. Theo Petrin as Minister of Economy. Dr. Paul Gantar as Minister of the Information Society. Mag. France Bootha for Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Mrs. Andrejo Richter, Minister of Culture. Dr. Bohinca Council for the Minister of the Interior. Dr. Anton Grisold, Minister of Defense. Mag. Mr Janez Kopač for Minister of Environment, Space and Energy. Mag. Ivan Biszak, Minister of Justice. Mr. Jacob President for Minister of Transport. Dr. Slavka Gabra for Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Dr. Dusan Kebra, Minister of Health. Dr. Dimitri Ruple for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Dr. Janez Potočnik for Minister without a department responsible for European affairs. Mag. Zdenko Kovac for Minister without a department responsible for regional development. Before I put the motion to a vote, I ask if anyone would like a word to explain their vote? Nobody? Please. First of all, colleague Peca, after you, colleague Jelinčič, on behalf of the parliamentary group, or on behalf of your personal name? A friend of mine?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u93	I have, on behalf of the Group of Members, Comrade Yelinčič on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u94	You have three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u95	We will not support the proposal for ministers in the Slovenian National Party. We estimate that all the hearings were conducted in a negative form, which means that Members and Members were not presented programmes, were not presented with a realistic vision. In particular, it is a matter of referring to the position of Minister of Finance, which we estimate is that the inflation reduction project, as a project with which this National Assembly and the Slovenian State will meet in the next two years, is not set in such a way that it can seriously reduce this rate. We're even more afraid. If such budget preparations as we have been used to on this same ministerial team remain, Slovenia will not meet any of the five convergence criteria that we are talking about today. We estimate that it would be useful to have a ministerial team capable of implementing such plans that would, in particular and fundamentally, raise the standards of the Republic of Slovenia and not so much as the emphasis on the existing government that we will like only and only Europe. That is why we will not support the proposal of ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much, buddy. Comrade Jelinčič, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think there's a government waiting to be elected today, though without our votes, for a hard job. She will have to clean up and "shoot" everything that the previous government has done badly under the leadership of Mr Drnovsk. And she's done a lot of bad things. Perhaps the new broom in the government, in the person of Mr Ropa, will do what Mr Drnovšek has not done. In our party we also expect the replacement of several more ministers in the next, say, first third of the year. And it will be the same way that some ministers will be replaced. Some of them are supposed to be, because some of them are doing extremely bad things. You will also have to arrange relations within the coalition when your own Members jump in your back with strange amendments that undermine your concept. Such matters will never be experienced by the Slovenian National Party. You will experience criticism, constructive cooperation, and, above all, a great deal of pity, because the work that will have to be done to clean up everything that has been wrong will be enormous. To a large extent also Sizof's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u99	President, thank you very much. Respectable candidates for the minister, nice greeting. The symbolism of today's vote is somehow covered in the symbolism of the bet - mine with Mr. Tsukjati, on the establishment of the medical faculty in Maribor. We both want the medical school to be, but he says the government is incapable of doing it. And I trust my government to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust the fine programs you've presented here, my vote will be for you. When you are announced with the title of Minister in a few moments, accept this as honor and, however, as a duty, that we will be Members who decide on behalf of all people, when we will also give you this honor, but sometimes ask you to do what you have promised to do. I'll give you my warmest congratulations. I'm sure you'll be elected. I wish you a successful job in both years, 2003 and 2004, both budgetary and personal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Comrade Moge. My friend Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I'll take two minutes for what I didn't have the chance. I would like to say that it is true that the parent working bodies have done the hearings, that the ratio of representatives is based on basic political power, that there was no listening due to the quality of the work or the programmes. It is also true that not all ministers are bad and not good. And it is true, once again, that it is not good for us to accept the government in the package. This is actually a force to form and name those ministers who, due to the results, among other things, say that according to the latest data, 8 000 people in Slovenia, who have income of more than 2 million, I speak net and 300,000 live in poverty. So these are the indicators of the work of this government, and no one is looking at them. I am sorry for the few who are not bad enough that I, too, will stress once again, as my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, against the adoption of today's government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the appointment of ministers and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. Slovenia has received a new government. 54 for, 25 to 82 present. [[Let's hear it.]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I congratulate all ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on their appointment and, of course, wish them the success of this difficult duty. I will now ask the ministers and ministers to swear before the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers and ministers, Prime Minister! He will swear by Dr Vlado Dimovski, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u103	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u104	Congratulations! He'll be sworn in by Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u105	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u106	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary! She'll swear by the Minister of Economy Dr. Tea Petrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u107	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u108	Congratulations, Madam Secretary! Dr. Pavel Gantar, Minister for the Information Society, will swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u109	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u110	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary! He'll swear by the Magus. Franci Booth, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u111	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u112	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary! Mrs Andreja Richter, Minister of Culture, will swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u113	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u114	Congratulations, Madam Secretary! Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, will swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u115	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the good of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u116	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary! Dr. Anton Grizold, Secretary of Defense, will swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u117	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u118	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. He'll swear by the Magus. Janez Kopač, Minister of Environment, Space and Energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u119	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u120	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. Now the Mag will swear. Ivan Bizjak, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u121	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u122	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. Mr Jakob President, Minister for Transport, will now swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u123	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u124	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. He will swear by Dr. Slavko Gaber, Minister of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u125	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u126	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Dusan Keber, Minister of Health, will swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u127	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u128	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u129	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u130	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. He will swear by Dr. Janez Potočnik, Minister without a department in charge of European affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u131	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u132	Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. She'll swear by the magus. Zdenka Kovac, Minister without a department, in charge of regional development.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u133	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and that I will work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u134	Congratulations, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, would either of you like to speak at this time or perhaps the Prime Minister on your common behalf? Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me once again to thank you for the support you have given us and, of course, the commitment to act well, to act effectively and to fulfill what we have promised here. Let me say it's the end of time for words. It's time for action, and then we'll act on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] I ask you and the ministers politely to conclude this agenda with us. [[...]] We have some more announcements, and then we invite you to the lobby, where you will traditionally take a group picture of the new government. Since Mr Slavko Gaber was appointed Minister, under Article 14 of the Law on Members, he is temporarily unable to perform his parliamentary function. I will immediately inform the Republican Electoral Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidate will be replaced by Dr Gabra in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the Republic Election Commission, the State Assembly Election Commission will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandate and report on its findings to the assembly. Another time. As a new government has been appointed, they are now serving as a member of the Parliament, or Ambassador, Dr Lucija Čok and Dr. Janez Drnovšek, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. In this regard, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, they shall cease to serve as Ambassador Mario Gasparini, who served as Deputy Minister at the time when he served as Minister and colleague Jaš Zlbec Lukič, who served as Deputy Member of Dr. Janez Drnovška's post at the time he served as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. Colleagues and colleagues! Dr Janez Drnovšek informed the National Assembly that, due to the near takeover of a new function which is incompatible with the Member's function, he resigned from this function. You received Dr. Janez Drnovška's resignation today on the bench, and his term of office expires today under Article 9, paragraph 2, of the Law on Members. I will immediately inform the Republican Electoral Commission and ask it to inform the assembly, which candidate will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. On the basis of a notification from the Republic Election Commission, the State Assembly Election Commission will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandate and report on its findings to the assembly. With this, colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister, Minister and Ministers, we have concluded this agenda item. Once again at the end of the congratulations on behalf of the National Assembly, with a desire for a successful work and, above all, a fruitful cooperation with our house. Until further notice, I'm adjourning the session. We'll continue at 3:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u137	Colleagues and colleagues, we continue the meeting. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Commentary amendment of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2003. The proposal for amending the budget was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. At its 23rd emergency meeting, the assembly had already held introductory presentations, the views of the groups of Members and the general budget debate, and had suspended the hearing before the vote on the first part of the State budget. We will therefore now go to the vote to decide on the general part of the draft amending budget for 2003. I call on all Members and Members to join because we will decide. Mr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u138	Mr President, I am very sorry, but we are sitting here and we would like to do our job and I ask you to ensure this possibility that we can decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u139	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u140	If it's possible 10 minutes to consult.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u141	The LDS Group wants ten minutes' rest for a vote. I'm giving ten minutes' rest for the LDS Group's consultation. We continue at 3:48 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u142	Let's get back to work. It's been ten minutes. Please take your seats. As you know, in accordance with the timing of this meeting, we should end point 3 and point 4 today. This is the 2003 and 2004 budget. We have a lot of work to do. I call you to good cooperation and attention so we don't waste time. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the general part of the 2003 draft budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u143	Dear President, it is likely that it is right to give the Liberal Democracy Club the opportunity to explain the conclusions they have drawn in the meantime when they requested a recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u145	It was a useful vacation. We will support these conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. May I have your attention, because we are voting. There are 54 of us present. 40 votes against 5. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the general part of the draft amending budget for 2003 has been adopted. We are moving on to the central part of the draft amending budget for 2003. Anybody want a word? Mr. Christmas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We could talk a lot about this budget, but we will limit ourselves to a small conclusion. We have read from the memorandum that the gross domestic product in 2003 will be 5 000 45 billion dollars, and the expenditure will be 1 thousand 449 billion 652 million and several thousand more, we can say a thousand five hundred billion. This is only an introduction, because I would like to place particular emphasis on the chapter of social protection at the Ministry of the Economy, in particular as the sum of the insurance age and compensation under the law prohibiting the production and sale of asbestos products. The 2003 budget change is the deletion of this budget for 100 million dollars: from 813 million 225 thousand to 713 million 225. Before the draft budget was amended, I asked the Ministry of the Economy to give me some information on why people who have become sick of asbestos get a professional disease and expect compensation under the law we have adopted in this Parliament. It's a very sad situation. During these years, 700 settlements have been concluded, as is the case with the law, and 509 settlements remain this year and in the following years. I also received an explanation of the budget. Every year, funds are being removed from the dedicated work budget for this law, and at the end of 2004, when the law is to cease to apply, we will receive less for this purpose for a billion 233 million 720 thousand ten tolars. I ask myself, and I also ask you, colleagues and colleagues, who have adopted legislation, whether this is right. We passed the law to give and pay compensation to those who were sick because they worked in asbestos production and slowly die. In my office, several times people have called waiting for a solution to the claim for compensation. A month ago, my neighbor, 51, died. And when we talked, he said, "It's too bad, Ivan, there's nothing you can do." And I'm asking you, colleagues and colleagues, if we've passed the law, why isn't there enough money to make that payment that we promised people? Why are 509 others waiting for a solution? I don't just blame the Ministry of the Economy, I blame all of us. I think if we can't get money at 1,500 billion to pay people who have a professional illness and we promised them if doctors find out they have a professional illness, they'll get paid compensation and it's not done. Since Mr Bajuk has spoken, I will also end this way: will the chairman of the budgetary control commission protest if the Ministry of the Economy exceeds this item? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u148	Thank you. Please sign up for the debate. Who wants the next word? Mr. Kelemina and then Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. If I'm not mistaken, we're now in the special part of the draft budget, aren't we?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u150	We are talking about special work, general debate on specific work.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u151	That's it, that's it. I would ask the question here at point 1 – we have the funds foreseen for the President of the Republic of Slovenia. We had the first budget for 2003 of 513 million tolars, and with this change, I think we added that if I look at these documents correctly, because I find them difficult, because they are a little strange that 60 million more money will be spent for the President of the Republic of Slovenia than originally envisaged. I am now asking whether this 60 million increase in the cost of transforming the new government or the new government, and thus the setting up of a new president of the country, or what costs are now those that have had so much impact on the fact that we had to increase the cost by 60 million. Otherwise, all of this is described here below, but I do not believe this description too much, and I would still like to hear whether this includes the 60 million or the cost of transforming power. Do these costs come in extra and then where will they be taken to settle this if they are not. Please answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u152	Thank you, colleague Kelemina. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have put two amendments into a special part of the budget. One Amendment Allows [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u154	Mr. Battelli, the amendments can be discussed when we get to them. If you have a general discussion on a specific work, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u155	Now I thought I'd discuss it, but I wouldn't then. I'd talk about it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u156	Every amendment will be spoken of so we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u157	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u158	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This interruption must have confused us a little, and we don't know where to start this debate. If I understand correctly, we are now in the special part of the budget. Is that right?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u160	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u161	Here Nova Slovenija has 20 minutes. I'd like to take this time and point out two things. In those days, when we talked about the government on these so-called hearings and then on every single agenda item, there was a lot of talk about the construction of the Slovenian highway program. If I had listened correctly to the performance of the mandate holder, he assured Parliament that in the future in 2003 and in 2004 more money would be made available for the construction of Slovenian motorways. If I look at this budget balance, I can see from it that the practical means of investment maintenance are shrinking and, quite significantly, by 1.8 billion tolars. I would like to draw attention to the fact that when we adopted the 2003 budget, the opposition had a lot of comments on the amount of funds allocated for the implementation of the Slovenian road programme. Already at the time, Mr Rop, as the then finance minister, then increased the highway building and maintenance funds in the supplementary draft budget. Now, at the rebalancing, it's reducing them again. So, I take it as some kind of passage between words and actions. At that time, it was said that she had listened to the opposition's position, that all the amendments announced and the opposition's comments were taken into account. Now I see that with the rebalancing, the funds for the investment maintenance of Slovenian roads are shrinking. I'd really like an answer. Why do you do that? We discussed Slovenian roads very much. Here was a promise to get Members back into deciding on the national programme's balance in the coming months, in the spring months of 2003. We have all discussed how much road construction is lagging behind this national programme. On the other hand, we can see that the government is actually reducing funds for 2003. Who, then, should believe that the funds announced today in the 2004 budget will be realized? Practically nobody. If we adopt the 2004 budget today, before the year 2004 begins, you will come to Parliament with a balance, probably even if it takes twice, and then lower those funds again. These are false promises, and as an opposition Member, I cannot agree to such a thing. Another issue that I would like to draw attention to, and which has already been discussed today, is the decline in agricultural production and the growing imports of agricultural products from the countries of the European Union. Looking here at page 87 of this special part of the budget, I can see that the support programme for the restructuring of agricultural production from 2 billion is falling to 500 million. If I had any expectations, I would have expected, in fact, from the minister or from the government and, of course, as a result, from the Ministry of Agriculture to increase the money for restructuring rather than reduce it. To avoid, for example, solving milk surpluses in a chloramphenicol affair, but the excess milk solution would be in such a way that part of this milk production would simply be diverted to another production. Slovenia is a major importer of fruit. Slovenia is also becoming an increasing importer of meat from the countries of the European Union. Practically then, the agricultural programme should be driven in this direction in order to try, where there are shortcomings, those of our farmers, who, of course, will not be able to mate farmers in the European Union, to shift to other agricultural productions. You'll tell me which ones. I think that the possibilities in Slovenia are very large. Let me just mention one thing. I read that in Slovenia, which is actually entirely suitable for the production of strawberries, we have less than, I don't know, according to some data about 100 hectares we have sown areas and planted with strawberries. On the other hand, we import these same strawberries largely from Italy, Spain and so on. Well, it's just one case. I could've kept going this way. What can be done to reduce, for example, the percentage of milk production to be diverted to another production. But if that's what we want, we have to have the money for it. And I don't understand why you're actually reducing money for these programs. I may not have read it correctly, but if you look at the page, as I mentioned 87, the restructuring support programme is down from 2 billion to only 500 million. You may be able to answer these two questions, but if you don't, I've just given my vision and my thoughts to this rebalancing that's ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u162	Thank you, Comrade Sok. In the meantime, I would only point out that the time has been announced for all parliamentary groups to discuss the whole agenda, including the amendments, so that no one would then seek additional time to be rational with their time. I'll leave it to you. Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u163	In this debate on budgetary resources and objectives for individual programmes, it is always necessary to ask how the budget will handle all this. The same concern about spending would, in my opinion, also be necessary as they come into the budget. If the government and the public services do not care enough to ensure that taxes, contributions are paid to the treasury, it is, of course, difficult to ensure a balanced budget. I mentioned earlier, at the previous point, that we have a certain habit of avoiding taxes and that, of course, some officials or public services are also helping to ensure that those who would be obliged to pay contributions do not do so and then offer this as the best innovation. Justice is also that those in the same situation pay equally, not that those in the same situation pay differently. Of course, VAT revenues have fallen out, tax revenues have been paid. If the contract managers conclude through legal entities, of course, there is nothing in the state budget and they are left with everything for personal consumption through the company. The government doesn't care enough about that. Therefore, we ask ourselves how to provide the necessary funds. Of course, because the government does not act on the revenue side, it cannot fulfil the basic missions, which it also explains every day or at the beginning of the budget cut. As we see, resources are being reduced by a regional development rebalance, promoting the employment of people with disabilities. I mentioned that the unemployment of the disabled has increased tremendously. Government, the minister proposes a reduction of funds. This is the image of this government and the minister here isn't here to listen to it. Otherwise it won't touch him anyway. Adult education, future learning society, same reduction. Help for the family, social protection for the elderly. The company's getting old, the money's getting smaller. Special social security programmes and the maintenance of institutions are also declining. I don't know how the institutes can handle this, because most institutions are in state hands. Will the roof no longer be repaired to run to the premises and lay the buckets so there won't be a flood? That's how the government of this rebalancing works. And we're working on a balance sheet for a period that we haven't even performed yet, which is nonsense. At the time of the adoption, journalists spoke about the achievement of adopting the 2003 budget, and we are working on rebalancies. Thank God it's almost over this year, because otherwise we'd probably be hit by another rebalancing this year for a year we haven't started yet. Thank you so much for this kind of planning. I can only be appalled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u164	Thank you. Mrs. Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I think it's worth talking to because I think sometimes it's necessary to disperse someone who's supposed to, and also the government's satisfaction that with care, that is, material for culture, everything's in order. This satisfaction is obviously common, as we read that the share of the budget for culture has increased significantly, from 22 billion in 2000 to 28 billion in 2002. But they are - and therefore I have to crystallize this misreading somehow - these comments ignored the information that the share of cultural resources in the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia fell from 2.14% in 2000 to 2.11% in 2002. He fell regardless of the fact that the resources for the functioning of the municipal public institutions in the field of culture were transferred to the country in 2000, and what for a large sum, however, is a lower share of the state budget than in 1997 when it amounted to 2.24% and 0.57%, respectively, within the domestic product today, is five years later, and this is smaller. And despite the fact that in 1999 the law on the so-called cultural tolar was enacted by the government in an increasingly small percentage, its implementation fell from 1999 when almost 46% was implemented, 29% in 2001 and 33% in 2002. The share has also fallen, irrespective of the increased scope of action in the field of culture and ambition. However, there are no or even no significant restructurings, reductions or even radical and new definitions of public interest in this area, which is logical. In a detailed analysis of the structure of the state budget for culture in recent years, yet another fact concerns that the share of funds in almost all programme areas is declining, irrespective of the previously mentioned transfer of funds to the state of municipal public institutions, according to previous years, the decline in the share of funds for performing arts, musical activity, drastic publishing, for Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia for international activity, at the time of entry into the EU, for scholarships, for nationalities in the Republic of Slovenia. However, it has increased noticeably, and, worryingly, the percentage for the administrative authorities of the Ministry, including for new jobs, which is almost as much as all independent cultural creators, exceeds the percentage of total international cooperation and expenditure on amateur activity, and so on and so on. However, I wanted to point out that the amendments, which seemed to be burdensome to the representatives of the Finance Committee, perhaps also because they were not sufficiently justified or did not get the right explanation, were put in with two ambitions. For the first time, they only intervened in those funds, which meant the difference that had occurred with the decline in cultural resources, at the 2003 National Assembly approved budget, so it is 374 million tolars. However, the amendments were not at all made in a way that would mean that we are finally carrying out a 100 % share of the legal resources, since they should then exceed more than a few billion values of the funds. But it is clear that the entanglement of all of us and of you into desires and opportunities is obvious, so they were not so ambitious. But also those who were not so ambitious have fallen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u166	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u167	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues. In the opinion that the proposal for a budget rebalancing is necessary, these opinions may, of course, be different. In our Group of Members, we view this proposal as necessary. Why? The conditions, forecasts for the coming year, are better known than were known when we adopted the budget. Even in the family, things change from month to month, you plan something, the profits or income is lower than you thought, and, of course, austerity measures are needed. When we reviewed the amendments, we saw that everyone wanted something more, but given the rules of procedure that colleagues, colleagues did, it happened that from a certain heading, if all the amendments were to be taken into account and their sum, it would even exceed the item originally envisaged in the budget. Therefore, we believe that it is right for all of us to be cost-effective, careful, and therefore it is also right that the Government has submitted this proposal for a budget rebalancing, which we already know today, under these conditions, as are now available and predictable, that this rebalancing plan could also be implemented as a state budget. Therefore, we particularly believe that it is time to draw attention now to the ministries to which certain items are being reduced by a rebalanced plan, not to waste, not to conclude forward contracts and, of course, to those items set out in the 2003 budget plan. So now is the time to accept such a rebalancing so that we are all aware of the changed circumstances and start saving at all ends and places Therefore, we believe in our Group that we will be able to express our views, whether we support them or not, in detail within the time available for individual amendments. I am also joining a certain opinion on why we are in the balance sheet of certain items - I am also talking about the pension fund, the right is the institution for pension and disability insurance - has been reduced. On the other hand, yesterday we also received the financial plan of the ZPIZ, which has also rebalanced its original plan for the coming year, and I will send hay into the details of the state budget, the individual items, the transfer to the pension fund, as we know that the revenue from the contributions does not satisfy even the payment of all the pensions of those who have been earned, and on the other hand, the transfer does not satisfy those items for which the government is responsible, given the early retirement rates of such and other items, as they are listed in just over 30 for which the government has taken responsibility and we have adopted certain laws that the government must now implement, so it must also transfer from the state budget or to the pension allowance. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u168	Thank you. A colleague of Puksic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u169	Thank you very much. At the time of the review of the 2003 draft amending budget, I did not see anywhere in this particular work the Ministry of the Interior's intention to do what it would actually do. I always draw attention to the issue of the share of local community funding. On the other hand, the Ministry of the Interior, through administrative units, exposes so-called Information Offices outside the city, which is good, absolutely, and I agree and necessary. This way certain tasks, from the registration of personal passports and so on, are brought closer to people. But it's not a good thing it's at the expense of local communities. The Ministry of the Interior does not cover the leased lines at Telekom, which is of course not cheap. That's over 1 million for one hired platoon. The Ministry does not cover rents for premises, which is even more irrational if these premises are used three times a week and not twice a week. The local community, of course, has a cost. Don't say it, then give it up. It's not a local community, it's a population in this area. It is essential that the Ministry of this Part takes care of this part and sign such or different contracts with local communities and settle the matter. The fact is that this is contrary to business and that when the Court of Auditors is reviewed, the local community and the Ministry of the Interior will be involved in offences. Why the local community? Because the Ministry literally forced her to do this because she had no other option. Secondly, with regard to human resources policy, I would like to draw particular attention to the Ministry of the Interior in particular. In some cases, I know specific cases, in some administrative units there are several personnel transferred from the former major municipal, those 64 municipalities, and this personnel ended up in administrative units. Now some chiefs have real problems, something or a lot of this staff works four hours and so on. As a number remains, in fact, it is not possible to employ a new staff, trained, and to fill these works that are. That is why, of course, in certain areas they appear, not only when changing passports and so on, but always, always problems, types, numbers. See, it is not normal for any day of the week to stand in line or reach nine o’clock, to raise numbers if you are not by then, then by 15 o’clock one way or another. In this special work, also the commission for Slovenians in place and around the world has warned the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because we do not agree and it is not acceptable that 40 million tolars have been taken away from the Slovenian office in place and around the world for education, for the preservation of Slovenian language in place and throughout the world. I have talked about this when adopting this budget, and from 1996 to 2003, it has been relatively reduced by half compared to the full budget in this area. And, of course, it is not acceptable for this item to pick up the minimum, so that, of course, the office will not eventually be left with what has already been agreed on for funding.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u170	Thank you. And once again, Comrade Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. With the adoption of the 2003 State budget or the 2003 budget rebalancing, given that this is a less important document, I think, after the participation of a few ministers, it would nevertheless be right to think that some ministers would be here, or there would be more, and that we would be monitoring this debate, and that we might also have an idea of how and how to make these internal arrangements, because they are not all, indeed, most appropriate, in terms of their knowledge or views, of the individual issues that arise in the country. I'm sure the MPs know what's going on because we're not such bureaucrats. I'm sorry to see there's no interest in the government. Nor is there a new finance minister who would listen to what we are saying here today, nor is there from a very important new regional development centre here. How is that possible? We have a lot to say, and it would be right for someone to hear it. Mr President, how will you ensure a competent, sovereign treatment of such important subjects, even though it is only a rebalance that someone here will listen to these things. Mrs Petrinova, it's a great honor that she's here, but she doesn't have any more regional development, so to speak, almost nothing. These things are different now. We still have a shot at her job, but these people have to go somewhere right now. I don't know, it should also say where it's going now. I don't know anything. And I want to talk about regional development in this debate. I would like data on how many different regional aids are directly earmarked for these implementing regional programmes prepared by our development agencies for 2003. As far as I am aware, given the review of these developed implementation projects for regional development agencies or for statistical regions, these projects are worth a few billion, 10 billion. However, all the resources that are likely to be earmarked in some way - I welcome the new Minister very much - but it is significantly smaller or worst - that we have never, and although we have warned at this time and years, especially with the proposal or the 2003 budget rebalancing, we do not see how these resources are allocated to direct regional incentives, so that we can have a review of how much resources are foreseen in the individual area and then we can follow the regional development strategy, so that we can follow the economic development strategy that you are always talking about, so that we can then also follow all development programmes from 2002 to 2006. If I'm not mistaken, we've now accepted some documents. These are large-scale core documents, which, of course, we need to know as Members, but we do not know them or most of them do not, but most of them must be known by the Government, especially by the operators, the projects being carried out on the ground, so that they can see from the structure of the draft budget that they know what has actually been taken into account and what has not been taken into account. Now we're all looking, listing these papers, and there's no such review. I firmly believe that the new Ministry of Regional Development will ensure that, despite the fact that we are likely to adopt the 2003 budget rebalancing today, and that this review is not by individual resources, that it will prepare it, and that we will then have Members, not only us, but also those institutions that need it, a review of the structure, form and type and quantity of these regional aids. Now I would like to say something else about this. I hope that the new minister, who is very critical - I must say this, in her presentation, has assessed the situation so far in this area, and I have also shouted very much for at least six months that this area is not regulated, and perhaps I can at least attribute to myself that it is my credit, that we have set up or that you have set up a new ministry because it has not actually gone on like this. If it was my contribution to this, I can only consider it an honor, but I can't say it's only because of me, but then everyone started to repeat it to me, even though they knew, but they didn't expose themselves like I did from the beginning. See, the document states that the Agency for Regional Development or the staff of this Agency has been properly educated in recent years, including in EU Member States, and has acquired the necessary knowledge. This means that this sentence is meant to mean that, in fact, the staff of the Regional Development Agency have been trained to a certain stage for these European funds, structural funds and cohesion funds and that they should then know, even where it is necessary, at the regional level, to help prepare certain documents, so that these implementation projects will then be at least or almost correct, fully satisfied with all the needs that there is not at this point, which the new Minister has pointed out. But look what happened next. Something else, something very important. Now that's important, and it would be right for you all to listen, wouldn't it, Mr. Anderlich? See, for 2003, for the implementation of the law on promoting coherent regional development, the Ministry of Economy sent us a report on how this will be done in 2003 and so on, and see what they wrote in the document - and we are doing so - I will read, see: "Aware of the need for an objective assessment of the implementation of the regional policy, which would allow the evaluation of the objectives of the regional development strategy of Slovenia and its completion and modernisation, the Ministry of Economy, together with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, supported the targeted research project," both ministries supported the project title: reform of regional policy reform. That's how it's done with us, you see. What reform of regional policy reform - and you hope in these documents to write and submit to the National Assembly and Slovenian public, and then, of course, you explain these things, that things are obsolete, that they are no longer modern and so on and that reform is needed. It is clear that, despite the documents adopted, the regional development strategy, the economic development strategy, as I have said, despite all the development plans from 2002 to 2006, you do not want to take all these core documents into account, because you are not able to provide resources for this because you are not qualified at national level to implement these policies and to provide resources that would truly form a structure, a financial structure that is supposed to try to remedy these major differences at regional level between the emerging regions somehow. Look, our personnel from the underdeveloped regions are leaving. I'm talking to a whole bunch of educated, highly educated people when they don't know where to go and wander a little bit here, a little bit there, something part-time and so on. They say it's absurd in this country, because if you're not in LDS, you can't get a job today, even if you can't get one, and so on. In short, it's terrible. We destroyed companies, some of the development components or sectors where some of them in the past, when companies were even bigger and stronger, also had their development sectors, and there are no development sectors, because we stopped them because of ownership, because it was necessary to reduce the company's value to a minimum, so that they could then be redeemed and purchased internally, and so on, because you know these tricks, I will not explain this to you. And today is the opportunity for us to hire these young people and all these highly educated people at the local level and help them to help the employees, but we will also help the economy, because with technological and other innovation parks - or whatever they are called - we will provide companies with a service for development, for the future of products, technologies and so on. We have the personnel at our disposal, they wait, they have nothing to do, and we don't create this financial structure so we can do it at this level. This needs to be done in all the backward regions of Slovenia. This is the key, the engine of everything we can do. And how we can imagine, always talking about a partnership, and I support it, absolutely, truly, partnership, the real project holders, whoever the companies, individuals, investors, group of investors, holding companies, then local communities, as contributors, our state funds from the state budget, cohesion funds or European Community funds, all these sums of financial resources, the financial structure that should be in place as soon as possible, if we want Slovenia to withdraw, especially those backward regions, from behind, do not work. Madam Minister, I am placing my heart on you, let me do something in this area so that we can employ the highly qualified personnel we have on the ground first. Technology parks, development agencies or institutions that will actually enable us to help businesses, to also create, to search for programs and to offer potential investors projects that will, in fact, once they have come to life in some environment, wherever they are, certainly produce results. Possibilities are innumerable. We all know that. All you have to do is take advantage of them. So I would ask you, if only, regional policy reform, to minimize in some way, if you have to do it, I don't know how much money this is going to go through. Let us make a review at this level, first of all of these incentives, which are and actually make these technological development parks first, and I am sure that success will not fail. So much for regional policy. The rest, of course, will continue and we will probably talk about it for 2004. Thank you very much. That's all that bothered me the most, and that's what I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u172	Thank you, colleague Kelemina. Anybody else want a word on this part? If not, this part of the debate would be closed. New ministers and ministers, state secretaries and secretaries have joined us. I say hello to all of you because when I first started, you weren't there. I would now like to ask whether the government wants to answer some of these questions that have been asked. I would also remind you that you have planned 20 minutes for a joint debate or for these answers and how you will spend it, I leave it to you. Minister Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I would only give an answer or explanation to Mr Sok. I think it's probably a little bit of a misunderstanding, probably a little imprudent on paper, but it's very clear that the support programmes for the restructuring and reconstruction of agricultural production were 2 billion this year, 2 billion in 2003 and 141.888, I apologize, 2.141 billion, which means a little more, and then in 2004 it's 3.54 billion. In addition, two thirds of the European resources must be added. Thus, a remarkable leap is foreseen in 2004. That 533 million, however, is likely to be seen as one of the many sub-programmes within this programme, restructuring and renovation of agricultural production relating to investment support to cooperatives. Then there are the second, third, fourth farms. It's a national program. Besides, Sapard is a program that's completely separate from that. It's just that, even though it's not in the budget, it's because you mentioned it. I'm sorry. Milk found to be contaminated with chloramphenicol cannot be eliminated. I'm sorry. It can't be a human diet because we have it in elimination just because it simply can't be in milk. I'm sorry. As long as there is chloramphenicol in any milk, it will have to be destroyed. That is why we are now examining it individually. If any of the foster parents have it, they won't be able to give it away until he has it. It's all art. Unfortunately, it's very simple. That's the way it is. Like a lot of them every year, a lot of them destroy one because of the penicillin inside, the other if there's anything else. These are prohibited substances which must not be in milk. If they are not there, they shall be answered by the breeders, or by a contract of cooperatives, which shall be their business representatives. It's very clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u174	Thank you. Anyone else want a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] Then I believe that we have concluded this part of the debate. There will also be amendments that specifically discuss these matters. You never called before, Dr. Bayuk. You have a chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u175	But do I have to send for airmail?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u176	No, no, no. I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u177	Okay. You know, I'm very concerned that what Comrade Kelemin asked us, we have no answer. What is this reform study, the reform of regional policy, which states, apparently on December 3rd, we received this one week ago, states that it is a recalculation of the index, a redefinition of the first phase, once in March, and then one evaluation in the second quarter of 2003. Could we get an answer to that? I'd like to add one more question. Does anyone in the government know how much it costs? What will we have in addition to waiting for these reforms? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u178	Thank you. I like to remember something. We are talking about the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003. We adopted the budget last year, now we are only partially changing it by focusing on these changes. Nobody wants Mag anymore. It's a steeple. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. The answer to your direct question is, of course, necessary. The government prepared a report on the implementation of regional policy in 2001, and then, on the Committee on the Economy, it received an undertaking or an order to prepare a comprehensive report on implementation of regional development and to consider amending the law itself or supplementing it if necessary. In preparing this comprehensive report we actually ordered two studies, one at the consortium of Ljubljana institutes, the other at the consortium of Maribor institutes. The first results of these surveys are expected in February. Why were these studies needed? Because the census data came in. The inventory has been carried out, the data are accessible and all these indicators and data need to be re-evaluated on the basis of which areas with specific development problems and regions with specific development problems have been calculated. So, this is what we've been doing with the preparation of the research bases. It's a research project. It is not possible for the state administration to evaluate this by itself with its services, but it has commissioned a research study that would be the basis for a serious matter such as a possible decision on changes to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u180	Thank you. Anyone else? I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Can the Secretary of State also answer the question of how much did this cost if it was made on a public invitation to tender, how did this matter take place? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u182	Sure. This has also shifted slightly over time because we went through the Ministry of Science's targeted research programme, where the Ministry of Science adds 50% to the resources of individual ministries. Thus, a call was made for the entire targeted research programme, not only for these studies, but also for other studies that the government needs. We have just assessed that this is necessary in the area of regional development. How specific is the value of this research? I think that two people, something like this, a year or so, a person, a regional development agency is the subscriber of this research and we can provide you with accurate information later on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u183	I've already concluded the debate once, but the colleague Sok. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u184	Presidents, if you'll excuse me, I'm sure the Minister of Agriculture and I haven't fully understood each other. [[...]] I've probably been inconsistent in my debate, and I'm taking that on myself. So the agricultural and food reform programme, on page 87, is shrinking by a balance of 1 billion 336 million 855 thousand. That's true, not if we have the same rapporteur. This is what I wanted to stress, which means that we are reducing funds for the necessary reforms in the agricultural field by means of this rebalancing. Well, then, on page 97 again, the reform programme for agriculture and food, where it is about restructuring agriculture and food. But here I wanted to point out that we spent 2 billion in 2002 and that in 2003 we spent only 500 million tolars. As far as milk and chloramphenicol are concerned, Mr Minister, I am aware that the milk in which this antibiotic is located, or any other, should be penicillin or any other milk should be destroyed. But we destroyed the milk from all the tracks, which is also said to have been free of chloramphenicol. So much for understanding. It seems that it is clear and I know that milk that is infected with an antibiotic or some other inhibitory substance must be destroyed, but here I agree with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u185	Thank you. Comrade Squirrel, you wanted to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Booth, Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u186	You're talking about the whole package -- and now I see -- that's 1,336 billion down, in terms of the rebalancing. This is the whole package, which covers a huge number of different types of actions. In fact, next year, on the basis of an agreement, the system is taken over primarily and primarily in direct payments to the European Union, including in this work, by moving to advance and settlement. Then this advance and the calculation in essence allow for a decent liquidity transition, because next year we raise direct payments first from 54% to 75% of the European Union and at the same time move on to a system of European payments such as Austria has. This means, in advance of September, the calculation of the month of February, thereby also liquidity in 2004 and 2005, when we additionally raise, we contribute in some way to the possibility of payment at all, given that, at the time and at the time of entry, payments or the possibility of use are also expected. However, as far as that is concerned, I still argue that the restructuring programme in terms of investment support is 2.1 and a few billion dollars in 2003 and not 500 million. Although, as it is said, this topic is not chloramphenic, I will still dare to answer again. As long as we have a European model, this is the monitoring that all European Union countries have, you see a test presence on milk lines. If you find out on the milk line, you can't buy milk from that milk line until you find an individual violator inside everyone in that milk line. Otherwise, you wouldn't do anything for consumers because you'd keep giving them that milk, where the whole line was found to be contaminated. That is why we have moved, unlike the European Union, which is monitoring, to a superstandard, and this is called mandatory testing of each private producer. Well, from now on, the line can't be closed anymore. That's more expensive, but it's obviously necessary for at least a few months until we get to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u187	Thank you. Also a fellow Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask before we decide on the amendments themselves, or the question is also procedural in nature. When I examined these amendments, I noticed that the amendments we adopted on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food were all rejected on the working body. But that doesn't bother me that much. It's just a political decision by the board. However, secondly, when I read the Rules of Procedure, Article 166, Article 5, paragraph 5, when I speak - amendments may only apply to those particular parts of the special part of the State budget covered by the proposal for a state budget rebalancing. And when I look at these amendments, the very first amendment to the review adopted by the parent working body, we see that this was not a proposal for a change at all. Then we see the next amendment, which is on the other side, Office for Slovenian Language, user. This is where a new item is introduced. I would like to ask, Mr Vice President, if we can, before we decide on these matters, to clear this up. I don't mind if that's accepted. But then we need to know what we're talking about and how we're gonna decide. So much for avoiding this. Since we are our proposals that we have adopted on the Committee on Agriculture, we have aligned them with the Home Ministry, and this is practically their proposal, we have summarised it. And then I just can't understand that this is what we're doing here. Please, if we can clear this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u189	Tone Anderlich wants the word, if I understand correctly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u190	Although I do not understand why this note under the first amendment was written, it was clearly found to be on the committee. It is also not true whether an amendment is addressed to an area which must cover such resources, where it is taken, as sources to which it is given, and certainly the political system within the General Secretariat of the Government has been amended. This means that other transfers can also be made in this context, especially because no other item is being reduced. Therefore, of course, I expect you to find that this first amendment has been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that you will also put it to the vote. This has nothing to do with the amendments that Mr Kramberger is talking about. As soon as that amendment is in place, I'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u191	Thank you. I have a review of the amendments, and the date 10.12.2002 is said to have been a review of the amendments for the working body and I do not have any such comments written here. Minister Booth wanted a word explaining that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u192	I'm very sorry. Now I think I'm going to answer the right question, including the 500 million, Mr Sok. He was right, but the content is different. We're talking about the B balance sheet. We are talking about the B balance sheet, where there were 2 billion in 2002 and half a billion in 2003 is foreseen because there was no sale of a company from Vrhnika, which would be financed by the B balance sheet for investment support in this part. I hope that, to the best of my knowledge, the government intends to discuss this in particular, perhaps even in the coming year.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u193	Thank you. I have to say this one more time. We have the amendments we have for today's debate on 10.12. The mother’s working body has been identified and the government has been identified. At each amendment, I will also say this: the proposaler, the opinion of the government and the working body. That way we can follow it. The mother’s working body, however, assessed the amendments to be acceptable and correct. Also Comrade Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I am already on behalf of the Group of Members, unfortunately then between the interruption and the new meeting, I have put a very clear question to Dr Grisold. I said that we would like to receive a clear answer from him in the context of the general debate. Are some of the amendments in which the director is taken such a nature that this could have an impact on Slovenia's preparations for joining NATO? I expected to get that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u195	Minister of Defense, Dr. Grizold.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u196	So thank you so much for asking. My answer is this. The reduction of funds proposed by the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Germić and other amendments by approximately 250 million in the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, in the sub-programme of training and the defence system, and another 300 million in the sub-programme for the regulation of common functions in the administrative part of the Ministry of Defence, represents an extremely large intervention in implementation, I would like to say very rationally planned priorities in the Slovenian military and defence system. The adoption of such amendments would undoubtedly have a negative impact on the implementation of the defence reforms that you have confirmed here. Last year and this year, you adopted key development, strategic and regulatory documents that set out the fundamental solutions to reforms in the coastal system, including the transition to the professional army with a voluntary reserve. The recent invitation to NATO is a direct confirmation that these reforms are properly and clearly oriented and that they are precisely priorities. This function also includes all defence expenditure, which is also an integral part of the budget or the 2003 budget balance and the 2004 draft budget. Following the most urgent growth projection, 1.61 per cent of GDP should be reached next year if we are to ensure that the key tasks of reforms are met, particularly in the transition to the professional army. That is why, I must say, we have planned very precisely, carefully and rationally the tasks for 2003, and specific priorities are set out, the fundamental objective of which is to allow the transition to the professional army. An intervention in the performance of these tasks would be very serious, both for the administrative part of the ministry, where there are no other items that could be reduced, and in fact in the administrative work it would allow or cause a certain blockade of the activity itself, which will undoubtedly reflect in particular in the conduct of military matters, acquisition, in particular, of candidates for military service, the acquisition of volunteers and the like. Such an approach, especially during this period when we begin accession talks for full membership in NATO, is certainly not good. It's happening to us again, talking to each other, doing the other. And these, to say the improbability of the past has been considerable and, of course, we must not continue with such practice. Therefore, I propose to the honourable assembly that you do not support this or these amendments, which in some way take the resources of the defence department and within this particular Slovenian army. The adoption of this and other amendments, as I have already said, would mean a reduction in the implementation of the most urgent priorities, i.e. priority, and, finally, a reduction in defence expenditure below the level we have planned. With these numbers, of course, we also operated within the alliance. In particular, the priorities related to the transition to a professional army would be significantly extended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u197	Thank you, Minister. I can conclude now, or Janez Podobnik, you have the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I think Dr. Grisold's performance was convincing. And if I speak first on my behalf, although some amendments are such a nature to support them, I will not support amendments that would give some important segments to Slovenian society and the country and take the defence department. I won't support that. However, I would like to ask the representatives of the government if you have a mandate to take advantage of another option given to us by the Rules of Procedure before we go to the decision-making process: the mother's working body could meet again quickly, and in those areas that Dr. Grisold spoke about now, other resources may be found and the area would be covered at the same time, but the defence department would not be affected. Mr Vice-President, if a government representative could respond to this initiative, would he see the possibility of such resources. I think that if most people vote, the working body can meet again on these new facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u199	I think this option exists anyway when we get to the individual amendment. I will put each amendment separately into debate and also in decision-making, and we will be able to stop at that amendment in particular. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. I have a word, don't I?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u201	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u202	Thank you. The government has examined these amendments. At that time, from the meeting of the Finance Committee until today, when the government is working again with full powers, it proposed that amendments be slightly modified, that they change in this part, that the scope of the additional funding for education be slightly reduced and that funding resources be changed at the same time. Of course, the government cannot propose this because it does not have these powers. However, we suggest that the Committee on Finance do so if you find this acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We'll get to those questions. I am moving on to a debate and to a decision on the amendments to a specific part of the draft amending budget. They are recorded in the review of the amendments of 10.12.2002. We will lead the debate through individual sub-programmes within the framework of the individual budget user, to which amendments are tabled. We will first vote on the amendments of the parliamentary groups and groups of Members and then on the amendments of the home working body when the proposals are both. Procedural colleague Podobnik and then Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would now like to repeat my procedural proposal and ask you to put it to the vote, to meet the working mother and on the basis of the debate that has been heard and the new facts that we have heard, to be identified by some amendments and to prepare material for the meeting of the national assembly. I'm sure this can happen in a relatively short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u205	Thank you. This proposal, because this is a procedural proposal, I am making a decision for you, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal is that the meeting be suspended for a short period of time, that the parent working body meet, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy adopts its position on these open issues in these amendments and then we continue the meeting. [[A voice from behind.]] We can decide that. It was a procedural proposal that the National Assembly could decide on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u206	Good. Where's the government?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u207	I'm putting this proposal to the vote to stop the meeting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u208	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u209	There's no explanation for the voice. Proposal to suspend the meeting in 15 minutes [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Please, if you are listening to what we are going to vote on to suspend the meeting in 15 minutes, so that the main working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will meet immediately in the large lounge, and then bring to the meeting the position of the home working body. We will vote on that. Please let us vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u210	Before making a decision, I want five minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u211	We weren't successful this time. First of all, I give 5 minutes of leave for consultation in the parliamentary group before deciding on Mr Battelli's request. Five minutes. We continue at 17.11 when we re-vote this proposal to suspend the meeting of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u212	Dear colleagues, it has been five minutes, at the request of colleague Battelli. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I give my word to my colleague Batteli. Comrade Battelli, would you like to explain your decision? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to a vote to suspend the meeting. After a brief consultation with the President, we believe that 15 minutes is too short, that it takes thirty minutes, so I am proposing this procedural proposal to suspend the meeting for thirty minutes, that a mother's working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy meet immediately at the emergency meeting, and that we continue the meeting in 30 minutes. I now put this procedural proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 42 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I'm adjourning the session in 30 minutes. We'll resume work at 5 p.m. and 44 minutes. The board meeting is in the big lounge.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u213	First of all, I would like to inform you that the parent working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, has had an urgent meeting and has addressed the issues of the two amendments under review. The decision to amend the two amendments was adopted. At this time, until we reach pages 23 and 26, where these amendments are located, the amendments will be written and given to us on the parliamentary bench. That way, we can make decisions about them, and we will know what we are deciding. We would therefore now like to discuss and decide on individual amendments. Once again, I ask that you have before you a proper review of the amendments, this is from 10.12.2002. In order to discuss and decide, I am making an amendment to the User 1.5.1.1., Secretary-General of the Government, sub-programme 0.1.0.1.1.5.02, the activity of the Secretary-General of the Government. The candidate is the LDS Parliamentary Club, the Government supports the amendment and also the mother's working body. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We're voting, please. There's 52 of us in attendance. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. In the debate, I am putting an amendment to the user's Nationality Office and sub-programme to support the nationalities communities so that I do not read all the numbers because you have a review ahead of you and you can monitor. Anybody want a word? Comrade Battelli. The amendment is proposed by Battelli Roberto, and the government does not support him, as well as his mother's working body. Comrade Roberto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I don't have a government position here in the review. I have proposed two amendments to the draft amending budget for 2003. That's the first one. The purpose of this amendment is to maintain the co-financing of RTV programmes for both national communities, realistically at the level of implementation in 2002. The amendment is tied to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u215	May I have your attention, please, and don't disturb the debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u216	the normal functioning of national programmes which, without these funds, would be forced to deplete or even cancel jobs. [[...]] That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u217	Thank you. A colleague of Gez Juban came forward and then a colleague of Aurelio Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out, or firstly, my opinion that, while I agree with the purpose pursued by my colleague Battelli, but the source, in both cases, is the functioning of public services, I would inform you that these services have not been paid for the past two months because of the way in which they have been financed, and that if we now take away funds that are intended for approximately the same scale as in the previous year, the existence of these services is practically questionable. Therefore, we should not take it here, although its purpose is fine, but I suggest we not support it for the reasons we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u219	Thank you. Comrade Aureio Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u220	Thank you, Vice President. I will support this and the other amendment that my colleague Battelli has made, and for a simple reason, because I have been warning all these years, as far as I am concerned, that it is very important that we do not reduce the real level of resources for national communities and also for our Slovenian minority abroad. Unfortunately, from year to year this is actually shrinking. For a small financial impact, because these are modest users, we are opening up big problems. I've already pointed that out on the Foreign Policy Committee. See, we loathe ourselves and properly when Slovenian minorities in Italy or elsewhere are lowering their funds. It is not possible for us to find once and for all when working and budgeting, for the national communities, for their needs - I repeat, they are a relatively small user of budgetary resources - to set an indexed quota and then to deal with other matters. Again, of course, Members or colleagues of minority species must somehow remedy the situation, not increase the resources, but preserve the real past sum of amendments that sometimes receive some support, sometimes not as much as this time. So, as far as I can, I urge all of you to support these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u221	I didn't mean to interrupt you. I only warned you that you have the right to debate in peace. Mag. Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I feel somehow obliged to warn you about this amendment. I respect my colleague Robert Battelli's opinion that this amendment is probably justified and resources are needed, but from these sources - it is not the happiest source that my colleague Battelli has chosen. I also fully support the opinion of the Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture and I propose to the assembly that we do not support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u223	Thank you. Again, Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u224	Thank you very much. This item is probably, relatively speaking, the largest in the budget if we rule out defence. The moment the rules of procedure force us to take from somewhere, then we need to consider where to take. And that's $40 million at the expense of billions - a number that's multibillion dollars. As a result, we probably have both the government and the Committee on Finance to determine in the budget adoption procedure where certain matters are to be regulated. Now we're where we are. However, within the agricultural sector, even in view of the outcome of the negotiations with the European Union, there is probably no, I do not know what the reasons for absolute panic will be because it will be 40 million less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u225	Thank you. One more time, mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Roberto Battelli, I do not oppose your arguments, but the argument that we will get something from the European Union is not an argument. In our amendment to the committee, we are giving this particular forestry service because it is nourished, if I say so, and now we are taking this proposal of yours here. It just doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u227	Thank you. Nobody wants to talk anymore. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please. There are 53 of us present, 29 votes against 18. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has received support. We are moving to the user, Office for Slovenian Language, sub-programme Conservation of Slovenian Language. The proposer is Nova Slovenija, the government of the amendment supports as well as the mother's working body. Anybody want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Before deciding on the next amendment, I would ask that, on the basis of the fact that the Group of Members should consult on the decision on the amendments given, it should give 15 minutes' rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u229	At the request of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, we will be asked before the vote - please, Comrade Podobnik, whether we can finish the debate and asked for a vote 15 minutes before the vote. [[...]] Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Mrs. Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u230	The amendment we have before us will not actually hurt anyone because it does not open any new items, it does not take it from anyone, but it gives it to someone. In fact, it is a matter of spreading conscience and there will certainly be no painful hands at the time of this amendment's decision. However, it would be worth noting whether at least to ask what the Slovenian language office is doing, to which this amendment only changes items or opens new subsidies if it does not know within its work cycle or plan its work, but also items that are the result of decisions on what it will do. In particular, it upsets me, as it has been put in, to overcome its passive monitoring and to report on the non-compliance with the legal rules that have led them to live for so long and not give them anything. As I say, no one will find it difficult to support this amendment. I wonder why and how they are not able to decide what they want to do within government plans.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mrs Tisovic and then Mr Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. I just want to say that maybe it's a little bit incomprehensible. They had been redistributed before, only every time they had great difficulty redistributing it. So now they've put in an amendment to redistribute it here and they'd have fewer comedies. There's nothing else to do with it. They'd already be able to redistribute, don't worry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This is a topic that could be dealt with quite a bit. I can't agree with my colleague, because I looked into the whole thing myself when they were talking about this thing on the board and also after she explained to me why she was against it. These are pretty serious accusations that are, I'd say, almost without a basis that they don't know what they're doing and so on. This office has its hands tied, if we release this money from one account to another, we will only increase their efficiency so that they can follow the course of things. Not only will they follow, but they will also warn and advise matters. Otherwise, because it seems that people at this office don't like some, then clearly, there are things that then appear to be inefficient and so on. Let's face it, there is one office here that is the only one we have that cares about strengthening the Slovenian language to promote itself, including the law that requires ready-made things about Slovenian to be reminded of that. If we're so indifferent, it doesn't matter what happens to this office. I predict if this thing stays the way it is, this office won't be much. You know, this office, when it was established, was already in the budget and I had to ask Mr Bandlja here what was wrong with this office, but he was not unestablished, only in the budget. After about six months, the office started, but it had no people, no furniture, nothing. This is the story of this office. For the last time on the committee, we all agreed that this arrangement was prudent and would indicate that we would support this. But if you have a better proposal and better people, say it and then we'll deal with it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u235	Thank you, Dr. Bernick. I think we have exhausted the debate of the reported debaters. I'm adjourning the session for 13 minutes because the Group of Members has already left in the meantime. We continue the meeting at 6.17 p.m. For this time, it's a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u236	Let's get back to work. The Slovenian People's Party delegation requested a 15-minute recess for consultation before the vote. You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u237	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for the opportunity for us to consult in the parliamentary group. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will follow the Government's position in the 2003 vote on the amendments to the proposed amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. A few hours ago, we confirmed it, and we expect those who confirmed it to do so in the vote on the amendments. At the same time, I say that we will also vote in accordance with the Government's opinion on the amendment that called for a short recess. The government does not oppose him, and this is how our vote will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? May I have your attention in the hall, please? We're voting. We weren't all gathered. Once again, I urge you to concentrate. We'll re-vote. There are 50 of us present, 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has received support. On page 3, we have the budget user of the Ministry of Finance, Subprogramme, Investment and Development Programmes to municipalities. The proposaler is Roberto Battelli. The Government of the Amendment does not support, nor does the mother's working body. Anybody want a word? Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u239	I'm asking for your support for this amendment. Let the Ministry of Finance find funds to be taken from public institutions, their reserves or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u240	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? A colleague of mags. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, the situation here is the same as that of former amendment colleague Robert Battelli. I would like to ask if the government representatives can respond to this dilemma, because now we have put 175 million, as we have proposed, within the redeployment, within the agricultural budget, in line with the ministry. Now it looks like it's probably back together again, so we can get those 30 million out of here. I don't know, it's probably not possible to accept changes to the budget. Can it then be arranged with a harmonisation amendment or a reserve or something, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u242	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr Simončič, and then Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members! Of course, this is a similar case as it has been in one amendment before.It is anticipated that we are taking on items at a public forestry service where we have increased needs and there is already a lack of resources, so there are other proposals to increase these items. Therefore, we cannot agree with the reduction in this, for this means a reduction in the scope of the services provided by law and we cannot interfere with the organisation or the cost of the services. That is why we cannot agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u244	Thank you. Also a colleague of Battelli's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, you said that you have agreed and that it is coordinated within the Ministry of Agriculture or within these items and so on. Sure, that's how it's done. But who am I supposed to coordinate with? I am not involved either as a parliamentary group in the drafting of the budget or in your coordination. And even on the National Community Commission, that doesn't happen because the government representatives don't come in many times. It's just that someone would talk to us about making a budget. Previously on "The Walking Dead"...
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u246	Thank you very much. More mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u247	Comrade Roberto Battelli! I guess I can't answer this dilemma right now or this problem why you're not involved in this budget preparation. I, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, am somehow covering this part of the issue. I don't know that much about this problem of yours. But I just can't accept that here, when there's already no money, when the services are alerting, the ministry has confirmed that it's true, I can't agree to taking the money out of it, what you want, of course. After the accident, you just took it out of this lineup. But there must be a way. We have a group of Members. I don't know if she's been so neglected in this national council that she's been dismissed from the decision. I don't know if we can accept that. Please don't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u248	Thank you. I'm also a colleague of Aloys Sok's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u249	I'd just like to add to that if Mr. Battelli hadn't taken it. He's just suggesting. They will take those who will vote in favour of this amendment. It is true, however, that all Members receive letters from the Institute for Forests and we are all familiar with the difficult situation in this institution. Unless, of course, you're not monitoring it. We've all received these letters, and the media is publishing it. It is true that I do not know how this is possible to take money from this public service. Otherwise, I agree that there is too little on these items that you are proposing. But with that, we're only gonna get this job into bigger trouble. I don't know if that's what this is about, and that's probably why you voted in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u250	Thank you. And a fellow Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Unwittingly, I feel that someone is deliberately violating the scope of the operation of the forest plant, with the aim of not controlling more forests that are in the management of 14 forest holdings, in order to continue with greater ease, without less guilt, to rob Slovenian forests. I think that's the key issue here. Already in the draft budget, we have faced the fact that this sector has not been earmarked for a lot of money. And it's coming true, which was last pointed out to me by the woodsmen two years ago, what the script is. Enable 14 forest economies that manage the best Slovenian countries, without any control or trust them simultaneously to control and implement all parts in more than a quarter of Slovenia's most economic forests, in order to more effectively conceal the extent of logging, have been better able to avoid paying concessions than they are now very successfully avoiding. This is the case, and the estimates were also given here to avoid falling into the budget of 3.5 to 4 billion tolars. Very good. However, it is also known, under whose patronage and under the protection of which of the parties this is carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u252	Thank you. Can we go to a decision? We're voting! There are 55 of us present. The vote was 14 to 34. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are moving to the budget user, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world, sub-programme Support to Slovenians in place and abroad. On page 3, amendment number 1. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We can go to decision-making. The government does not support this, nor does the mother's working body support it. The proposer is the commission for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting! There are 53 of us present. The vote was 15, against 34. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are moving to the budget user, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, the Sub-programme Training and Operation of the Emergency Intervention System. The candidate is the LDS Parliamentary Club, and the government supports it, as well as the mother's working body. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting! There are 54 of us present. 41 votes against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has received support. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Justice, the General Service sub-programme for the judiciary. We have an amendment on pages 4 and 5. The candidate is the LDS Parliamentary Club, supported by the government, and supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting! There are 55 of us present. It's 42 votes against 6. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has received support. We continue with the budgetary user the Ministry of the Economy, the Sub-programme Special Regional Policy Measures, the proposaler Ivan Bozič; the Government of the amendment does not support it, the mother labour body supports it. Anybody want a word? I don't see a desire to discuss it. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 54 present, in favour of 33 votes against 11. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has received support. Subprogramme for the same budgetary user, Social Protection and compensation for the restructuring of production. Here we have three amendments, the first proposed is the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats of Slovenia, the second New Slovenia and the third also New Slovenia. The government doesn't support anyone. The mother's working body is also none. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to an amendment decision under number one. We're voting. 57 present, in favour of 21 votes against 35. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We will vote on the amendment under number two. We're voting. The 55 present, in favour of 16 votes against 37. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. And there's an amendment under number 3 on page 7. We're voting. 56 present, in favour of 15 votes against 37. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. With the same budgetary user, the Enterprise Restructuring sub-programme, we have one amendment from the finance committee's proposer, which the government supports. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 54 present, in favour of 48 votes, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has received support. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Sub-programme for Reducing Damage in Agriculture. The amendment is proposed by Mr Sašo Peca, the government does not support it, nor does the mother's working body. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 57 present, in favour of 12 votes to 40. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. The sub-programme for the operation of services and public institutions is proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The Government of the Amendment does not support, nor does it support the mother's working body. Anybody want a word? Tone Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u253	I do not explicitly support this amendment, and I would like to stress this in particular, because it expresses all the absurdity that cannot be approved. It is not understandable that operators of activities in the field of agriculture, policymaking, including the Ministry and Mr President of the Committee on Agriculture, are taking - propose that direct payments be made to farmers and be made to the functioning of bureaucracy and services in institutions. This is outrageous, and it's hypocrisy over hypocrisy, and I'm not going to repeat yesterday's examples of how it was talked about who needs to be helped. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Agriculture and Mr President of the Committee, suggest reorganising the forest office - too much red tape, too many people for too little effect, too much costs. I absolutely support that within the Ministry's redeployments you provide resources for the functioning of the public forestry service, absolutely! And do it, gentlemen! But not hide behind that on some item - and you deliberately didn't plan it - on an item such as a public forestry service, because you were counting on us all to support it, because it has to work. No, within the transfers you have at your disposal, make this service work. I am against you taking direct payments to farmers and putting them there - the resources within this ministry and within the government's reserves are enough, as they were during this year, when, in the middle of the year, 80,000 heads of animals that were not present. Where the hell have they been? With all the strong VURS, with all the strong private vets, with all the records and so on! There was no pay, there was nothing, but believe me, today it's all working, the money's been found. I am also against this because, for this year and last year, you did not see to it that farmers receive those direct payments. Of course, Mr Brace, don't tell me that I'm guilty myself - I'm guilty too, but because I didn't know - I know because then you're going to replicate that to me - I didn't know this was happening. But since I'm walking among people, and because I'm trying to solve these things, I've come to these conclusions on my own, and I'm going to strongly oppose this reallocation in this way. For it happened - calculating why it was not planned at the Ministry of Agriculture when the budget was drawn up, I do not know, but hypothetically or symptomaticly, however it can be predicted that, if, in the end, all Members will vote for the public service. Yes, but for transfers from elsewhere, not from this item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u254	Thank you. The word has magic. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to be brief because I don't think the time is available. My friend Anderlich, this has been such a very popular performance - you take the farmers and you give for the jobs. And that's what these jobs are, the community service takes care of these farmers. More than half of Slovenia is infested! And your secretary is in this department. Then who hit him? He's the one who's taking care of it. He's the one who suggested it, among other things. And then we can't, so we can't -- well, maybe there's too many of them, or maybe we need to rationalize them, but that university-graduate forestry engineers have 100,000 wages in this country, and that's a shame. Now we're going to take them another -- there we took 40 million of them, here we took 300 million of them, now we're giving them 175 back with this amendment -- yes, then maybe even Comrade Sušnik convinced me with the previous debate when he spoke, but I really don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u256	Thank you. In order, Secretary of State Simončič, and then again Tone Anderlič, then Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. Before that, there had been talks about the means of the public forestry service. There was also a talk about the possible transformation of this service. This takes some time, and this also requires an amendment to the relevant legislation, so that these amendments are not possible in such a short time. However, the fact is that the resources for this service are too small at the time, and therefore the proposal to increase the resources to ensure an adequate level of income, as well as to carry out the necessary tasks, as well as the new forestry legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u258	Thank you. Once again, Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u259	I think it's wrong, Mr Kramberger, to replicate that you speak, ours and yours. Our secretary, your minister and so on - I didn't talk about it. I've been talking about those who plan funds for agriculture. So why, if you knew there were so many and so many employees, so much and so much cost, why didn't you plan it at the beginning? Why, in fact, did you think that somehow, or did so many people increase during the year, or did the scale of work increase, or did material costs increase? Why? So something's wrong. Something's wrong. I believe that, as was the case this year for veterinary service within the resources that are within a given department, this will also be the case. And please, at least I don't intend to argue any more that where it was said yesterday, how much help is needed is being taken today and given for unjustified reasons where, in my opinion, it is not judged in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u260	Thank you. For discussion also Franz Sušnik, then Dr. Brace and once again mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u261	Exactly. I will give Mr Anderlich my opinion. It's wrong, there's a defect in those who planned so little. The amendment is the result of a debate on the committee. But they were planning so little because of the well-known scenario that I mentioned earlier, which I may now be a bit harsher. It appears to cut 1 million cubic metres into 300,000 hectares of forests and actually cut 2 million cubic metres. For 1 kubik, the country survives from forest holdings on the basis of signed concession contracts from last year on average 500 kubik and the same forest economies can pay the Ljubljana diocese 3,500 kubik tolls on the stick. And now, with various such measures, we would tear down the public forestry service so that we would no longer control the logging and management of 300,000 ha of the best Slovenian forests. The reaction of the Agriculture Committee was this amendment. That is why I ask that you also support him if you do not want the place in the Slovenian state forests to continue to a greater extent than it continues to be done for ten years. In fact, we find that we are powerless, that this is a state of emergency, that there is nothing to be done, and on the basis of such a situation and on the basis of the data we received when we listened to the annual reports of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund, Minister Booth found that nothing could be extracted. It is evident that we are a bad master and that we support such poor management. The unfair competition created on the basis of this, because these 14 forest holdings come to wood mass for free, but it is reflected in the fact that farmers cannot sell their timber, that forest cooperatives that have been established by farmers fail, but that the economy, forestry in that part of agricultural production, should be supported by agriculture in these difficult times. Now think about how you're going to do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u262	Thank you. Dr. Brace has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u263	This debate shows that in the Ministry of Agriculture they do not have the things they should have. As far as I am concerned that no one will tell me anything, I have previously commended Minister Booth solely for his negotiations in Brussels. Because it likes to get generalized. But this is chaotic, what the Secretary of State has said, what Comrade Sušnik has told us shows that there is a great chaos here. And we can't solve the guile created in this area by taking money from an item that otherwise gets people in environments with more difficult circumstances. This is the wrong world. Thus, we will never systematically resolve these matters that you are talking about and that are certainly necessary to solve. Taking somewhere to give a little more to the foresters, I mean, it's an extremely defective solution. But the defect is somewhere else, not just in this amendment. I don't think this amendment from this systemic point of view is working. It's not going to solve this problem that my colleagues are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u264	Thank you. The word has magic. Kramberger. Mag. Kramberger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u265	Yes, thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted to say that it is the responsibility of the National Assembly to solve this problem. Clearly, the funds were not planned as they should be. And then together, when we found out, the ministry and the committee, we fixed them. I propose that we vote on this amendment and on the next two which the Committee has proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u266	Thank you. I'm giving my word to Anton Butolen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u267	Thank you very much. It would also be fair to say that the assets of 5.8.5.0. remain because there are not yet any criteria developed to allow those funds to be placed in those areas for areas with more difficult circumstances. And sadly, it was so that in these days there were many beautiful words. I don't mind going to the forest office to get rid of things there. They're really acute. They're also acute here. It is sad that, in fact, you will correct me if I say wrongly that 40 per cent of the funds planned for the more difficult situation area have not been used because the relevant services have not prepared it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u268	Thank you. Mag. A petty man has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u269	Thank you for your word. I want an explanation from the government. Is the collection of funds directly on transfers really such that the budget item will not be used because there is no legal obligation and it is not necessary to plan so much, because planning alone does not mean that consumption will be such. However, if this is how you intend to reduce the use of funds belonging to citizens and farmers by law, you will squeeze them in such a way that you will pay instead of in 2003 in 2004, but this is illegal work and duplicity. That's what you need to answer in this case. I also ask myself several times, "Yes, we have sought funds within the Ministry." I can't accept such explanations, and the Secretary of State or the ministers give them a lot of them. We didn't find them anywhere. How did you find them? Where were they hidden? This is not a responsible act. I demand an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u270	Thank you. I give my word to Mrs. Lidija Majnik first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out that we had several amendments on the Committee on Agriculture, which are intended to increase the entire budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. After a very long discussion, in which the Ministry of Finance also participated, Mrs Kamnareva provided data on the percentage of the use of environmental programmes from zero to eco three. Following a joint decision, the three amendments were drafted on the grounds that these programmes were increasing, namely, if they had taken the rapporteur, they would have found that the implementation of the agricultural reform programmes in 2001 was 25 billion and that 32 billion were planned in 2003. The growth of the planned funds was very high and it was assessed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u272	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u273	that the funds on these items will not be used. [[...]] And since the reserves remained here, within the Ministry of Agriculture, in agreement with all the affected, we created these amendments to redistribute funds. If Helena Kamnarova returns, she will also be able to provide data on the amount of funds used on individual eco programmes, where it is found that they will not be used at the level planned. That is why, even though I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I will support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u274	Thank you. And a word to the Secretary of State, Mr Simoncic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u275	Thank you for your word. As regards the areas with the factors mentioned above, the methodology is adopted and subsidies under this methodology are also implemented. In 2003, we are going to the methodology according to the European Union system, so the number of territories or areas under these factors will be increased. The use of funds on this item is fully in line with expectations and is also now being implemented through orders and payments. This is how consumption in these areas normally takes place. Here was the problem of providing resources for the service and also for additional tasks which this service must also carry out on the basis of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u276	Thank you. Can we go to a decision now? We're voting! There are 54 of us present. The vote was 28 to 20. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has received support. Budget user Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, Subprogramme Management of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. I have two amendments. The first proposal is not supported by the Committee on Agriculture, Economy and Food. The other is also proposed by the Committee. Who wants a word? Mag. Kramberger, please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Today, at previous performances, I have also pointed out these two amendments, because these three amendments are the agricultural committees. It is also a matter of reallocation within the Ministry of Agriculture. Specifically, this amendment, the first, the regulation of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, when the funds increase by 50 million, here are the funds for cadaver-exporting cars, for veterinary hygiene services. There's a car park here. I think cars are over 10 years old. These funds are necessary to be earmarked for these investments. Please also support this amendment, as well as the next amendment, which is intended for material costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u278	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to know, Mr Kramberger, as chairman of the committee, whether in this amendment it is also the purchase of a car for Director Vurs, so that there would not be so much travel costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u280	Thank you. Mr Kramberger, again.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u281	My friend Cyril Pucka, I don't think I'm fit to answer that question. This may be possible for Dr. Bajuk, who has that item on budgetary control. But I was very clear. It's about cars to take cadavers. Comrade Cyril Pucko, if you have time, drive to Murska Sobota, where a new cafeteria is being built, and let them show you cars that carry cadavers around Prekmurje and in north-eastern Slovenia, that is, across Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u282	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lavrinc can confirm that I am not a concessionaire of any car company in Slovenia, not anywhere else in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u284	Thank you. Again, Comrade Cyril Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u285	I am 100% convinced that by reducing the travel costs for the director and other administration at Vurs, it would be possible to obtain a car for the removal of cadavers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u286	Thank you. More mag. Kramberger. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u287	My friend Cyril Pucka, it's in my best interest, too, if there's anything he can do to get rid of it. You're the president of the Finance Committee, a member of the coalition. Let's get this straight. Are the ways of the Director of the Veterinary Administration justified, or has he spent too much money to do so? Let's get this straight. Don't talk in half. Let's get this straight. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Can we go to a decision? We're voting! There are 55 of us present. 20 votes to 30. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We decide on the amendment on page 10 under number 2. We're voting! 53 present. The vote was 18 to 30. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing this amendment didn't get any support either. The budget user is followed by the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, sub-programme Air Traffic Management. One amendment from the LDS, United List, SLS, DeSUS. The government supports him, and so does the mother's working body. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We vote!At 49, for 38 votes against 3. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has received support. Budget user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for roads, management and running maintenance of state roads. We have one amendment from LDS, the United List, DeSUS and SLS, which the government does not support, nor from the home labour force. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] That's what we decide. We're voting. Not many of us were paying attention. We'll re-vote. May I have your attention, please? We'll vote next time. 49, in favour of 29 votes against 9. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has received support. With the same budget user, Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads, we have a busy set of amendments, namely 12. We'll do it in a row. Under number 1 of the applicants Marko Diaci and Jurij Malovra, under number 2 the same two candidates, under number 3 equally, number 4 Franci Rokavec, number 5 Franci Rokavec, number 6 also, number 7 also, number 8 Mr Sašo Peče, number 9 Sonja Areh Lavrič, number 10 Samo Bevk, number 11 Nova Slovenija. The amendments do not have the support of the parent working body, nor does the government. I'm sorry, but the amendment under the 12th of New Slovenia is the same. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. On page 12, point 1. We're voting. 56 present, in favour of 15 votes against 36. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment number two. We're voting. 56 present, in favour of 14 votes against 37. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. Amendment number 3 on page 13. We're voting. There were 16 votes in favour, 37 votes in favour. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment didn't get any support. Number four on the same side. We're voting. 56 present. Vote 6 to 39. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment didn't get any support. Number 5, on page 14. We're voting. 52 present. The vote was 7 to 37. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment didn't get any support. Number six on the same side. I'm putting an end to this vote. Let it go to the end so there won't be any disturbances. Voice explanation, Franci Rokavec. We will then repeat the vote. Franci Rokavec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u289	Thank you for your word. I would ask for a national council, and I would support this amendment myself. The aim is to prepare and complete the necessary project and technical documentation, to produce PGD and PZI to perform works on the main road of the second order between Šentjakob, Lithuania and the Wall Bridge, at one of the most critical sections, on the route Hotič-Zgornji Log. Where it's actually a small asset, at 28 million. If these funds are not provided in 2003, the actual start or continuation of construction on this road will be halted for at least two years. We know, however, that this is the area of Lithuania, Zasavja, one of the rare areas in Slovenia, which is cut off from the highway program. And I'm sure it's still quite fitting for this amendment to be supported. I will support him myself and also appeal to the other Members to follow me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u290	Thank you. My friend Butolen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u291	Thank you very much. The theory and practice are really different. We have heard about regional development these days, and with the amendment we are taking direct encouragement to the congregations. Thank you so much for such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u292	Thank you. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] Let's go make a decision. We're voting. We're voting, please. 52 present, in favour of 8 votes against 34. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment didn't get any support. Let's go to page 15, amendment number seven. We're voting. 49 present, in favour of 8 votes against 33. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 33.]] The amendment didn't get any support. On page 15, the amendment under point eight. We're voting. 52 present, in favour of 9 votes against 34. [[The vote was nine. (against 34.)]] The amendment didn't get any support. On page 15 and then 16, it is under point nine of the amendment, which we will now decide on. Voice explanation, Mrs. Sonja Areh.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to explain. I would ask the Members and Members of Parliament to support this amendment. The project of the road section The Thinkinska klanec was included in the state budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2003. Due to the necessity of the project, the section needs to be repaired and restored as soon as possible, as the road section is a critical point in the road connection Arja vas - Slovenj Gradec. Therefore, the project needs to be re-inserted into the 2003 budget. The whole of the Carinthia region depends on this project and the link, which is in an increasingly poor situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u294	Thank you. Anyone else for explanations of vote? [[Nobody.]] I'm concluding. Let's go make a decision. We're voting. 52 present, in favour of 18 votes against 27. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 27.]] The amendment didn't get any support. Point 10 on page 16. Is there a word to explain the voice? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. We're voting. 49 present, in favour of a vote of 9 to 38. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment didn't get any support. Amendment 11 on page 16 and continuation on page 17. I have to remind you that there's been a typographical error. I think you'll understand if it rises on one side, that it can only shrink on the other side, not increase. Do you accept this explanation? Voice explanation, Mrs Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u295	There really was a press error here, so I'm sorry. But there's something I'd like to say. As we have just seen, one bunch of amendments is about state roads. State roads parallel to highways are in such poor condition on certain sections that they are dangerous.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u296	Just an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u297	It's an explanation, because it's my amendment. It is.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u298	Here you go. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u299	May I continue? I mean, an explanation. The Maribor-Ljubljana motorway is a superroad, only a lot of trucks go along the parallel state road and people who are even bound to the state road are forced to drive on very bad roads, even dangerous sections are. You can also see that from a number of amendments, I think, because we're watching it on the ground. So I think somewhere you need to find money for these state roads, at least for emergency repairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u300	Thank you. Anyone else want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 47 present, in favour of 14 votes against 31. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 31.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. And the amendment under number 12 on page 17. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 52 present, in favour of 11 votes against 39. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing this amendment didn't get any support either. We are with the next budgetary user, the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, the sub-programme of support for oil and natural gas processing and distribution. We have one amendment, the candidate is the LDS Parliamentary Club, the government and the parent working body support the amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 53 present, in favour of 37 votes against 11. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has received support. Budget user Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Leadership, sub-programme Formation of strategy in the field of leadership. Mr Ciril Pucko - at the committee meeting and also now, we will not vote on this amendment. Thank you very much. The following budgetary user, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, sub-programme of social work centres. The amendment is proposed by the LDS Parliamentary Club, its parent working body and is supported by the government. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 51 present, in favour of 37 votes against 4. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Sub-programme of incentives for the conservation and opening of new jobs, one amendment, proposed by Nova Slovenija. The Committee has not identified itself, the Government does not support it. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 53 present, in favour of 18 votes against 28. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 28.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. Subprogramme Programmes of veterinary organisations. One amendment, New Slovenia's proponent. The government and the committee do not support the amendment. Anybody want a word? Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! All I'm doing is registering that I've already asked six times about this amendment. But I've never received an answer. That's what they say. That's six today. I'll ask questions until I get an answer. Otherwise, I'll have to cut it off by some other means. That's right. If the Members can't get an answer to things, what about the people? Please. I said I wouldn't ask Mrs Secretary of State today or ask. That's why I'm not asking her, but I'd like to ask the Ministry this question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u302	Please close because you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u303	Ministry of Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u304	Thank you. Anybody want an answer maybe? [[No, no, ……]] Anyone else want a debate? [[Not at all.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 14 votes against 36. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. The sub-programme Social Protection of the Old, the proposer is Nova Slovenija. The Government and the Home Committee do not support the amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Hold on a second. Forty-eight present, in favour of a vote of 16, 30. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. The budget user is followed by the Ministry of Health, sub-programme Investment Investment in Hospitals. We have an amendment under point 1 of New Slovenia's proposal. The government and the committee do not support the amendment. Page 22. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. There are 46 of us present, 10 to 30 votes in favour. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. The tape was already running, and the result also says the will of the National Assembly. I'm special, I think he clearly called "vote." Continue, budget user Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, sub-programme Information and Communication System. We have two amendments. First, the proposaler is Mr Sašo Peca, the government and the committee do not support. The other is proposed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and by the Group of Members, Ljubo Germič, the first to sign. The government doesn't support it. Anybody want a word? Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u305	Dear Members and Members! I suggest you do not support the other amendment in this context. The government does not support it, and I have previously stated enough reasons not to accept it, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u306	Anyone else want a word? Comrade Elinčič Victory Tribal, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u307	Thank you. I will talk about the second amendment tabled by Mr Germič as first-signed with the Group of Members. It was today that she arrived from Washington, D.C., a dispatch from Mr. Krukus, saying that Washington would not exclude countries from joining NATO, but that these countries themselves would be excluded by inconsistent acts. You know our client's position regarding Nate. However, there is a great deal of laughter in the Slovenian National Party when it seems that you do not know what you are doing in the Liberal Democracy. On the one hand, we would like to in any way in the NATO Pact, and then you reduce the military and you take the financial resources. After all, it reminds a person of something that you don't understand the basics of those that you set. If you have to take it, then take it from the president of the country, who now gives him all the things and even a bunch of additional officials, or maybe take it from the priest's allowance, which you have increased by 14 percent. I mean, a man gives away everything with one sad feeling of a slight brain when he sees that dear colleagues don't even know what you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u308	Thank you, Comrade Victory Elinčič Noble. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u309	Thank you for your word. I would like to speak to Mr Germić on this amendment. In fact, I am a member of the opposition, and after all, you are in a position to form a budget and I accept it. So I have no comments here. But I stopped by because there's one thing that concerns me. In fact, one part of this was said by Mr Jelinčič. Slovenia, the Slovenian government has identified itself as contributing so much and so much to the armed forces in the coming years. No one forced us. No one forced the government and even what we accepted in Parliament, no one forced us, whether we were involved or not. The other truth is that in this case of integration into NATO, of course, we have explained to all future partners how much money we, who have decided ourselves, will give to the armed forces. And, of course, as chairman of the Defence Committee, I had the opportunity to meet with many representatives of the countries of NATO and, of course, NATO and I, of course, believed what our government said and prepared a programme of how much resources it will devote. And since I am now a fool myself, because I believed the government that it had invested such funds, I came by because I think it is wrong that we made promises to the external partners, but not because of the integration into NATO, because we decided to do so ourselves. Now, in fact, we don't stick to it, we don't stick to the word. That's why I called. But you will, of course, decide as you choose. It does not seem right to me because I am also the 'farming' representatives of foreign countries, what we have decided and what we have adopted in Parliament. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u310	Thank you, Rudolf Petan. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate after these two amendments. I will put to the vote the amendment under point one, on page 22, of Saš Pečet's proposal. We're voting. Too few of us pressed the button. We'll re-vote. We'll vote next time. We'll vote next time. There are 50 of us present, 10 votes against 37. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment didn't get any support. And to make my decision, I'm putting an amendment under number two with the same budgetary user. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 9 votes against 35. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 35.]] This amendment didn't get any support either. We are now at the amendment, which has seen a great deal of debate in the beginning, and this has led to the meeting of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee and the adoption of the amendment, and then one more when we reach it. You have an explanation in today's paper, dated 19.12. under point three, as well as an amendment to the Committee's amendment. Anybody want a word? Comrade Joseph Scholch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u311	Above all, the question is whether such a procedure is even possible, this additional amendment. Because, if possible, there is the will to agree on a number of matters in a number of other areas. Such an example, where the Members were unanimous, was the case of an amendment by Mr Battelli, who solved an acute problem and took it to a place that revolutionized part of this Chamber; I understand both. If we are going forward in this case and it is possible to vote on this, but I would need a clear position of leadership of the National Assembly, then it seems to me that we can just agree to stop the vote at other points and try to prepare amendments to please this or that Member or the newly roasted ministers. I don't think that's good. But the other thing about resources, I would say that whatever the explanation that I accept here, of course, seems to me to be a source that is now being developed, is even more problematic. If we take the Ministry of Finance in the part where it serviced its obligations to banks, either on behalf of borrowings, domestic or foreign, we reduce, I will say, credibility at some time in fact the whole financial system. And this seems more dangerous than these movements within items, if we put at risk the items that directly service the liabilities of the budget, and I think this source is even worse, and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy cannot understand this move.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jožef Školč, the procedure for adopting the State budget, Article 161(4), provides exactly what has been done in this case - another explanation cannot be given. Procedurally, Dr. Bayuk's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u313	Thank you very much. As a parliamentary group, we do not have any more time, so I would procedurally ask Mr President of the Committee to explain what they have said, where he takes the money and how it will work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u314	In the report we have before us, I mean, because it's not that long, it's all written down where to give, where to take, and also a brief explanation. If the chairman wants a word, however, please, Comrade Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bajuk! The Committee amended its amendment in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Rule 161 of its Rules of Procedure. I am also partly responsible to my colleague, Josef Školč. However, as regards the issue of the source and the reduction of the initial amount of 100 million tolars to 75 million dollars, this amendment is prepared on the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that this is the only option or that there is some possibility that the sub-programme of the Sport Programme is partly sufficient to increase this item by 75 million. What is no longer added here is shown in the report about what I have said. Thank you. [[The ad from the bench.]] May I, Mr. Vice President? On the question posed by the distinguished colleague of Školč, whether the item "to delete" is the right source, I suggest that the representative or representative of the government be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u316	Thank you very much. I'd rather say a word to Mr. Leo Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u317	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will support this amendment, because I think that the procedure, as has been said now, is obviously appropriate and obviously also an agreed content on the committee, so I will support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? The victory of the noble deer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will not support this amendment, for this reason, because it does not seem reasonable for us to take up the military for training and the defence system of so much funding, but it is given to some NGOs. I think that exactly NGOs in this segment could contribute more to the military or to sports in the military, not that we will teach, say, in Metelkova, how to run straight so that they don't crash into a wall under the influence of some kind of drug.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Can we go to a decision? We therefore decide on the amendment that has been amended today by the Mag's Committee. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State, I give you my word because you wanted to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u321	Thank you very much. I will try to answer the question as to why and whether the source proposed here is adequate or allows for the normal repayment of state debts. As you can see, the government here has proposed a reduction in the item relating to interest on domestic debt. The reason for this is in the reassessment that we have actually made at the Ministry of Finance in recent days, taking into account the effects of the operation of the single trust account, which has recently shown an exceptional appreciation of liquidity indebtedness, i.e. short-term liquidity debt. And of course, this also results in a demand for lower interest rates. The second reason is that, on the basis of the purchase of the New Ljubljana Bank, the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of the already adopted restructuring programme, is less favourable with a more favourable debt and early repayment of certain debts, estimates that, for these reasons, the obligation to repay interest will be lower and that such a reduction can be made for these purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please report to the debate. The amendment is therefore replaced by a new text adopted today by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We'll decide about him. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 40 votes against 10. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue on page 24, sub-programme Gardeners, proposer Maria Pozsonec. The Government and the Committee do not support the proposed amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we'll make a decision. We're voting, please. There are 50 of us present, 12 votes against 25. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 25.]] The amendment didn't get any support. Subprogramme Primary education on page 24. Mr. Marko Diaca and Mr. Yuri Malovre. The government doesn't support it. The committee, the mother's working body, supports the amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Let's move on to the decision. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 11 votes against 28. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 28.]] The amendment didn't get any support. Sub-programme General secondary and vocational education. The proposed amendments, the two amendments, the first Saša Peca, the second parliamentary group of the Social Democrats of Slovenia. The Committee and the Government do not support these two amendments. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Let's go make a decision. We're voting on the first amendment. 52 present, in favour of 15 votes against 31. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 31.]] Amendment, the first amendment did not receive support. We decide on the second amendment on page 25. We're voting. 51 present, in favour of 16 votes against 31. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 31.]] Amendment number 2 has not been supported. On page 26, the amendment under number 1 was also considered at the beginning of the debate. The Committee has also re-examined and amended this amendment. You have amended the text in the report of the Committee today's extraordinary meeting. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We decide on the amended amendment in this additional material from today's extraordinary session. We're voting. 52 present, in favour of 42 votes against 5. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] This amendment also received support. We'll continue after the amendment review. On page 26, the Higher Education and Higher Education sub-programme. The amendment is proposed by the Group of Members with Ljubo Germic as the first to be signed. The government and the committee, the parent working body, do not support the amendment. Anybody want a word? Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u323	Thank you for your word. So a similar discussion I've had before would be here, so I'm not going to repeat it. This is another amendment that may have to be included in a group of those that have been changed by the Finance Committee today, so that I, too, will not support this amendment for the reasons I have already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u324	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. Let's go make a decision. We're voting. Forty-seven present, votes in favour, four against 39. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We're going to the Adult Education subroutine. Amendment of the Group of Members with Ljubo Germic. The government and the committee do not support the amendment. Anybody want a word? Mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u325	Thank you, Vice President. Are you going to vote against it? Then I won't discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u326	Nobody wants a word anymore? Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u327	I'll be against this amendment, too, and now I'd like to remind you of--
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u328	But you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u329	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u330	But you can explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u331	Mr. President, are you leading this session to always interrupt us? So stick to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u332	I have not put the amendment to the vote, so there is no explanation for the vote. But you used time to discuss it. Please take this into account. Thank you very much. No one wants to discuss it anymore, so I'm putting an amendment to the vote. Anyone want an explanation of the voice? Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u333	Thank you very much. So I'm going to go against this amendment, and now I'd like to remind my fellow Members about Mr. Anderlich's debate when he was complaining about an amendment that was similar to the contents and it was a little bit of a [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and a woodwork dispenser. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u334	Thank you. Let's go make a decision. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 6 votes against 42. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment didn't get any support. In the Sub-programme of Study Assistance, we have one amendment, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. The government and the committee do not support the amendment. Yes, Marco Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u335	Thank you for your word. In fact, it is the return of funds already allocated to the basic draft budget for the construction of student homes. Therefore, we ask that you actually support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u336	Thank you. Nobody else? Sasha Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u337	I would like to ask the proposer, the Group of the Youth Party, to explain the contents of this amendment in a more specific way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u338	The Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party does not have time to discuss it because it did not report it. That's why, yes, Victory Jelinčič, and you still have time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u339	Thank you very much. I would, however, because the Group of Members does not have time, but I would ask Mr Diacia to explain the same matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u340	He can't. No, he can't. We stick to the rules of procedure. It's time I put it to the vote. [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] Barovich, you have the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Then please, if Mr Diaca may at least explain his voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u342	I would like us all to respect the rules of procedure and to go to the vote. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote now. [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] When we vote. [[...]] We didn't get enough votes. Now you've got [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President! I would like to ask, if possible, if you can explain to me by the rules of procedure, if we can take a 10-minute recess, that Mr Diaci will explain to us if the rules of procedure so allow. Is that possible, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u344	Since I have already put to the vote once, and there was no such requirement in the first vote, I am merely repeating the vote. We're voting, please! We didn't vote twice. Ten minutes' rest. We'll continue the session at 19.51.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u345	We're continuing our session. The vacation's over. I ask politely because the invitation somehow doesn't work in the lobby to finish the job. I'm asking you to calm down and get back to work. Please take your seats. This is the third time we're going to vote, and you know what it means if we don't make a final decision for the third time. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment. We're voting. At 55, 24 votes to 24. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 24.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. Budget user Ministry of Culture, sub-programme Library and Publishing. In this sub-programme, we have the amendment of a group of Members with the first-signed Jaša Evil. The government and the committee don't support him. Mrs. Lydia Majnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues would like to point out only that these amendments were accompanied by unfortunate fates, namely that colleagues on the Committee on Culture, Education, Science and Sport are less committed to amendments in culture than to the amendments to education. I would therefore like to appeal to those who respect the decisions of the National Assembly that we have adopted certain laws, but we do not implement them. In particular, it is a law on librarianism, cultural tolar and the like. I would also like to remind you of the debate that colleague Majda Širc had had at the outset, because we are returning with this amendment what was originally envisaged in the budget of the Ministry of Culture, we are returning that amount and, at least in part, by supporting this amendment, we are ensuring the implementation of the laws that we have adopted ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] That's what we're gonna decide. We're voting. 51 present, in favour of 22 votes against 17. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. The sub-programme Other programmes in culture, a group of Members with the first signed Yaš Evil, the government and the committee do not support it. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] That's what we're gonna decide. We're voting, please. 53 present, in favour of 19 votes against 28. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 28.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. With the budgetary user of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Heritage, sub-programme Property Cultural Heritage, we have two amendments. The first is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Dorian Marchic, the second proposed by Jaš Zlbec. Both amendments are not supported by the government, nor by the parent working body, the Finance Committee. Anybody want a word? Dorian Marshich, please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u348	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the explanation we wrote that the construction of a monument at Cerje is in the national interest, that it is a memory of rebels, fighters and fallen into efforts for national liberation and the defence of the ethical border during the first world war, during the Fascism, before the second world war, between it and during the independence of Slovenia. The National Assembly has adopted an amendment to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2000 amounting to 20 million dollars for the preparation of project documentation and preparatory works. And I think that's what this is all about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u349	Please don't disturb the debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u350	I believe that this confirmed the State's interest in the construction of this monument, in 50 per cent of the state and 50 per cent of the coastal municipality, the veteran organisation, patriotic societies and the coastal economy. [[...]] Unfortunately, this is where the state has run out. And I am asking you, given that the project is already in progress, that this project will not, despite the promises made by the State, remain on the shoulders of the local communities and those I previously counted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Excuse me, victory is noble and Aurelio Yuri and Davorin Targeton.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will absolutely support this amendment, and I must admit that this is one of the better amendments, not only in this mandate, but in all the three mandates that I am here. For some, including other people, not only from the Slovenian National Party, have recalled that we have here in this building, as part of our operation also some kind of state council, which is a blind bowel of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, and is spending terrible money. And it's only right that this money is about something useful. And once again, I'd be happy to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u354	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'm among the signatories to this amendment. I would like to remind you, of course, that years ago, when the story began with this monument, there was also great enthusiasm in the National Assembly, great support for this, and, last but not least, the country with the President of the Republic has laid the foundation stone. And of course, from this title, it is right that we today, according to the then recorded course, make this work possible. To take over what was built, our state's work. That is why I call for support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u355	Thank you. And also colleague Davorin Terchon, and then Ivan Bozič and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm also calling on this amendment to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u357	I'm asking for more attention and respect for the debaters!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u358	to support this amendment. [[...]] I must say that the actual monument has already been placed, but it must be completed. All the equipment and the program. Since there have also been some concerns about the programme part of the monument, I must say that the Ministry of Culture and Local Communities in Primorska, which also co-financed with the economy in agreement to have such a programming design in the operation of this monument, would say a more modern image. In 2000, the country had already committed 20 million, as has been said, but another 40 million were allocated to it in 2001 and 2002, and this amendment would allow the final completion and functioning of this monument, which would otherwise have failed, so it was under question what to do with the monument that already stands, what to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u359	Thank you very much. And Ivan Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course I'll support this amendment, but it's a monument to the Tiger. Tiger - Trieste, Istria, Gorica, River. This is how our ancestors demanded when the former Austria collapsed and Italy seized these places. We don't have any more of these places today. All are in other countries, at least on the monument and on the monument of the Slovenian people, to write these names that we have lost in history.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u361	Thank you. A colleague of Janez Spožnik and then Joseph Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Six years ago, I was the first initiator of an amendment to start an investment in the construction of the Tiger Monument. At the time he was Minister of Culture of present colleague Školč. But I must say, colleagues and colleagues, you had a very embarrassing hand when you were looking for a source. It is not in the right manner that one State authority which has a constitutional basis shall take funds to another which also has a constitutional basis. Taking $130 million to the state world, you know, that's not good. We've been very reckless in our search for a source. The amendment will be adopted. The relationship between the state-owned council and the state-owned council will be even more rocky than it already is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u363	Thank you. First Comrade Joseph Školč, then Joseph Jerovšek. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u364	Thank you very much. I will abstain from this amendment, not because I have anything against Tiger or this monument. Last but not least, I hope to say that among those who also privately raised money for the various monuments of Tigris, Primorska for various meetings, dedicated to this, for various publications and so on. The promise they made in the coastal congregations was not, I will say a promise that they would keep. The project is very problematicly guided and is not done in the way it is envisaged for all public projects, even if they want to be a national monument. I understand the feelings that people have when they distribute budget money. But I expect, of course, that in the memory of these people, we treat with care what we have today. The way this is done is to say that the state has not given anything, but at the same time there has been no report on the participation of this 50%, at the same time there has been no invitation to tender and so on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u365	Please finish the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u366	I'm sorry. He won't let me vote for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u367	Thank you very much. That's what your time is used to do. I can't give Davorin Targeton another word. However, Mr Jožef Jerovšek, who still has time at his disposal, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u368	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment, because after 70 years or even more, since the Tiger organization began its resistance to fascism and was then so cruel and after World War II silenced or also liquidated in some way, it is time to repay these brightest moments in Slovenian history. Recently, we watched a sequel or television show, and quite a bit of knowledge is that of the Slovenians, what Tiger meant, what they fought for and how they were, because the first resisted fascism and the first Tiger fell as a fighter against occupation, which for 40 years has not been recognized. It was their sin to resist fascism first, and we must correct these mistakes. And even with monuments, we will be able to teach the young generation what was going on in our history, where mistakes were then, and how grateful we should be to these fighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word that's still available? Nobody. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 35, 2 votes. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. And the last amendment under point two, on page 30. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude and put to the vote. We're voting. 49 present, in favour of 12 votes against 28. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 28.]] This amendment has not been supported. Colleagues and colleagues, we have concluded our decision after the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the draft amending the budget as a whole. I am putting a special part of the draft amending budget to the decision. We will vote on it. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 36 votes against 17. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] A specific part of the budget changes has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Anybody want a word here? Nobody. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision-making plan for the development programmes. I'm gonna hang up, I'm sorry to let it go to the end, and then I'm gonna explain it to you. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support the programme of the development programme plan, and I have discussed at the outset the law on the prohibition of the production and sale of asbestos products and the patients who are responsible for this production. However, I would like the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Economy to tell the law on the implementation of the 2003 and 2004 budget whether the second year, which is the same in 2003, will grant compensation to these 509 people who are awaiting compensation from this year and last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u371	Thank you. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting a plan of development programmes into decision-making. We're voting. 57 present, in favour of 40 votes against 11. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the proposal for amending the budget. I ask representatives of the government whether there has been a budgetary imbalance or a representative of the Finance Committee. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u372	I would like to remind you that the budget is not harmonised and that the harmonisation amendment needs to be adopted, namely the general part of the budget in order to bring it into line with the specific one, and the development programme plan, which is also not harmonised in view of the amendments adopted. We need about half an hour to prepare the harmonisation amendment, then the Finance Committee must adopt it and give an opinion on it to the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u373	Thank you. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u374	Thank you for your word. Today, the National Assembly has also adopted a solution that more than 25% of the funds for its operation have been taken from an institution called the State Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u375	There is no more discussion, Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u376	I would therefore procedurally propose to consider simply correcting this scandalous decision of the National Assembly. This will be history that we have approached the functioning of a state institution in this way. We took half her salary money. I suggest that those who know how to interpret the rules of procedure creatively find a way to correct this scandalous decision. This is a scandalous decision of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u377	Colleagues and colleagues, given that the budget is not harmonised - allow me! - I interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly and this item on the agenda. Tomorrow morning, my mother's working body will meet. I will give my word, Comrade Pucka. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u378	Thank you very much. The board meeting will be at 9:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-19-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u379	Yeah, that's the only explanation. Tomorrow at 9:30 a.m., the mother's working body, the Finance Committee and monetary policy will meet. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you so much for your cooperation today and good night!
