ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! Good morning, good morning! I begin the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Franz Kangler, Roman Jakič, Marko Diaci, Franc Čebulj, Franz Pukšič, Danica Simšič from 10.30 to 11.15, Miran Potrč from 10.30 to 11.15, Andrej Fabjan, Aurelio Juri, Bogdan Barovič, Ivan Kebrič from 11.00 p.m., Igor Štemberger, Ivan Bozič from 12.00 p.m., Jaša Zlobec Lukič for the start of the session, Miran Jerič, Davorin Terčon, Ciril Pucko, Leopold Kremžar, Alojz Peterle, Alojz Sok and Jožef Spindler from 11.30 p.m. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, make sure you have your cards on. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Quorum, please. There's 52 of us in the hall, so someone didn't try to push. Second, we find the presence in the hall. Quorum, please. 49 Members and Members are present, and the assembly is so concluded and may decide. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a representative of the Judicial Council are invited to attend today's meeting. I welcome it all very well. Today's continuation of the 16th session of the National Assembly will begin with the 31st item of the agenda, namely elections and appointments. The assembly will then move on to the 6th item, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas, and then to the 7th item, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on General Administrative Procedure, and in order to proceed further. We're moving to 31. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider the proposal of the Council of Justice, which is six proposals for election to the judiciary, and a proposal from the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs to amend the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the Environment. We are moving on to the examination and decision-making of individual proposals, first of all on the proposals of the Judicial Council for election to the judiciary. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly six proposals on the election to judicial office in the courts, two District Judges at the District Court in Ljubljana and Šentjur pri Celje, two District Judges at the Maribor and Ptuj District Court, and two District Judges at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word, Mr. Bojan Breznik, the Secretary of the Judicial Council? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly and submitted a report and proposals for resolutions. Does the rapporteur of this commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, Mr Pece, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u2	Your Honors are here! Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we will also make a public statement this time, namely that we will not support the proposed candidates in the context of the decisions on election to judicial functions because of the fact that in the Slovenian National Party we oppose a permanent mandate, due to the fact that the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is the procedure or amendment to restrict the duration of the judicial function and, in accordance with May 2001, when this same National Assembly has adopted a decision that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia examines the possibility of limiting the duration. As long as these matters in our country are not clearly indicated and are therefore so resilient, in the Slovenian National Party we will also not cooperate in settling someone in a job forever, regardless of its effectiveness and its working capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you. Anyone else want some of the MPs? [[He doesn't want to.]] I do not have written applications for the debate, so I will limit all further discussions to five minutes. I invite Members of Parliament and Members to the floor. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Alenka Gregorc Push to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting please. Of the 49 present, 39 voted against, three opposed. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Romane Gradič to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Šentjurje near Celje. Let's vote please. Of the 50 in favour of the vote, 42, 2 were against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] The decree has been adopted. Third time. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms. Danila Dobčnik Šoštarič to the judicial office of the District Court in Maribor. Let's vote please. Of the 52 present, 41 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] The decree has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Marjana Kosa to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Ptuj. Let's vote please. Of the 51 present, 41 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Mirjam Jaklič Petrovič to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. Let's vote please. Of the 50 present, 41 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Ana Kos to the judicial office of the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 42 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We have another matter under this item, namely the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the Environment. The proposal was submitted by the Elections and Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission for consideration by the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] There are no written reports. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and take the decision on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the Environment. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 44 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on the establishment of municipalities and the determination of their areas, a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u4	Very briefly, as is the report, since it is a law which is a logical consequence of the procedures that the National Assembly has carried out in relation to the establishment of municipalities. Proposal for a Decision: The Committee proposes that the National Assembly adopt this Act in a simplified manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? There are no applications for discussion. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written applications, so I am limiting the debate of the other Members who have not applied to five minutes. Please, Mrs. Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Respectable. I am withdrawing the amendment tabled to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and setting up their areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u7	You're withdrawing if I understand. Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants a word, I conclude the debate and conclude the general debate. We're moving to second reading. This is for discussion and decision on individual articles of the bill. First of all, I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a document. We have only one amendment tabled by Mr Franci Rokavec, date 22.5.2002, and one amendment has been withdrawn by Mrs Zupanova, so we are only discussing the amendment of Comrade Rokavac. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Franci Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! You may also recall that in time of difficulty in determining or determining whether a specific referendum area meets the conditions for setting up a municipality, we added six settlements to the referendum area of Šmartno near Lithuania at that time. In that time period, Zagorica’s settlement fell. Let me further explain what the question is. The fact is that in all of these proceedings, prior to the invitation to tender for a referendum or such a time error that occurred at that time, the village of Zagorica was explicitly mentioned in the procedure for the establishment of the municipality of Šmartno, the referendum area. Thus, in the decision of the municipal council, where the settlements of Breg and Tenetis were expressly mentioned, that they were exempted from this referendum area, as well as by the decree of the national assembly on the continuation of the procedure. The village is actually gravitated to the Municipality of Šmartno or to this ski resort Šmartno, including all activities. This is if the National Assembly finds that this error has occurred and that it has actually occurred, then now it will solve this mess, or else it will leave the population or these 24 inhabitants - 24 inhabitants have only 18 inhabitants of this area - only in the next four years, an unnecessary procedure to join the municipality of Šmartno in four years. Because of this error and because of the lack of time it was difficult for all over 50 settlements to determine whether they were in the referendum area or not, today it would be reasonable for the National Assembly to find out this error and also facilitate further procedure for the inhabitants of this area and also for the village of Zagorica to receive and confirm the municipality of Šmartno pri Litija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you. I apologize in advance because at least in part I have to say something about the first process, why there has been a difference in the number of people, because there is some way of repeating the same problem. That's when I quickly mentioned why it happened. I'll say it again in no time today. Šmartno pri Lithija was a candidate for the establishment of this congregation. The Internal Policy Committee then, inter alia, invited the proposer to complete its proposal with an accurate indication of the settlements. This is because both in our professional services, i.e. at the local self-government office, and later on in the committee, we found that what they listed was first listed by local communities and stated which settlements were exempted, and what was listed below, namely individual settlements, which, in our view, is the only correct thing, since the local self-government law states that the municipality covers an area of settlements or more settlements and therefore only after settlements can prepare such a proposal. Despite the call of the committee at the time, the additional proposal did not mention the Zagorica settlement as well as those settlements which were later brought back by the National Assembly through the amendment. Here came this difference because the proposal was essentially different in terms of how the local communities were listed, which in our view were not credible data, and in the settlements on which the proposal is being prepared. Later this proposal was supplemented with an amendment, but again without a settlement in Zagorica. A decree was adopted in which the settlements in which the referendum took place were also mentioned. There was no settlement here, and we are therefore obliged to point out that there has not even been a referendum in this settlement, and now it is a violation of the Constitution and the law, because we know that a referendum should also be held in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u12	I'm not actually going to take a lot of time for the National Assembly, I'm just going to explain the matter further. It is about the fact that in its procedure, as well as the municipal council, the public assembly expressly removed from the local community the Jablaniška Valley of the village of Breg and Tenetiša and no other settlement. It is said that it is more than crystal clear that the village of Zagorica, which was an integral part of the local community of Jablaniška Valley, was in all this procedure in the referendum area for the establishment of the municipality of Šmartno. It was also in the referendum area, both the previous referendums that had already taken place in this area, both in 1994 and 1998 and the locals - the 18 voters in this area - found only on the day of the referendum that they could not express their will. Then the procedure was initiated. So they turned to the government’s service for local self-government, as well as to the work of the committee of the National Assembly and, of course, to the leaders of the parliamentary groups. The fact is, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u13	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u14	a mistake was made. [[....]] The question is whether or not the National Assembly will admit this error. However, if we go to history, we will find that some areas in this country were also established before the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u16	I really wanted to ask the secretariat if it was possible to vote on this amendment. I think it's kind of impossible to vote on it because it's against the law. Please, no matter what, we will be able to vote against it, not because we would not want things to be arranged in the way that Mr Rokavec proposes, but because they need to be settled in accordance with the procedure envisaged. At that time, we had quite a few complications in determining the referendum area. It was precisely because it was not known whether the president of the local community had signed in Primskov without the assembly of citizens either being one of you or not. "Virbaly" was one way or another to just let them go along, to make the 5,000 voters. In this way, we cannot work in this national assembly, and I really ask if this amendment is even subject to a vote that we can vote on. I don't think so, because it's against the law and we can't vote on it. On that point, Mrs Prašnikeva has already explained here, which proposes an arrangement, a solution to define it, as I would like it to be regulated in the end. If you wanted Mr Rokavec to round this area, do not say now that a mistake has been made, that the job has been bad and that I do not know what and so on. The one who had an interest has come with an initiative, has set up an area, there has been a procedure and now the process is ending with what we are doing. As in the other 192 congregations, elections, calls and so on, of course. If you can answer that. However, my conviction is that this amendment must not be voted on for the first time, but if we vote, I will vote against it because it is contrary to the procedure for setting up municipalities. I don't mind, in the next process this village will go to a referendum and she will say, we want to get out of the municipality of Lithium and we want to join the congregation of Šmartno. That's all you have to say here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Let me just explain that I, as chairman, am not obliged to judge whether an amendment that has been properly tabled is legal or not. There's the government that's told her about the thing. Here are the Members and Members who are here and may say so, and of course I will put it to the vote and as it will be. Secretariat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u18	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. It should certainly be pointed out that this amendment does not meet the legal and constitutional criteria in order for an area to be able to join a congregation in this way, as appropriate prior procedures have to be carried out. However, despite this, the amendment has been formally correctly tabled and, until now, the National Assembly in such cases, as well as in some other cases of other laws, warned that the matter is, say, not in accordance with the Constitution or that it is not in accordance with certain other laws, has taken matters to the vote and has rejected them appropriately, but sometimes there was a different belief. The same aspect as the Secretariat cannot be said that certain amendments, which are formally correctly tabled, should not be voted on, but that they are contrary to the Constitution or the law, which is also the case with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u19	Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 14 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 31.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 41 Members and Members voted in favour, one against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We had a debate on the amendment. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Who wants a word? Nobody. Since no one wants a word, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote, please, on the rest of the articles. Of the 50 present, 46 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We're moving to the title of the law. Anybody want a word? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss the title, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the title of the law. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 49 members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We voted by article and address. I am opening a debate on the draft law as a whole. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I note that no amendments have been adopted to the second reading bill, and therefore no amendments can be tabled in the third reading, and therefore we are moving on to a full decision on the bill. Let's vote free. Excuse me, please. We need to stop the vote. I am terminating the vote because Mr Rokavec wants to explain his vote. Here you go, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support the proposal for a law, and on this occasion allow me to thank both the government service for local self-government and all Members of the National Assembly for allowing residents and residents of the new municipality of Šmartno near Lithuania for the third time in this referendum area to speak for the establishment of a congregation. As it is known, almost two thirds of the voters who participated in the elections decided to establish the new congregation Šmartno pri Litija, which will be the central Slovenian municipality. I am sure that the establishment of the municipality of Šmartno in Lithuania will in fact be an additional impetus for this area, and in particular new opportunities for faster development. And I'd like to say the following. Good thing we're gonna set up at least one congregation. This means that the congregation of Šmartno in Lithuania will be the only child born in this mandate in the process of establishing new congregations. I myself wish a good journey and a happy journey to the new congregation of Šmartno near Lithuania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u22	I will vote for this bill myself, though with very mixed and strange feelings. When we started this procedure a year ago, we started a procedure in which the initiators put in a huge amount of energy in 48 and some cases, and we almost completely choked it in this national assembly. We choked because we made decisions without any clear criteria. And that's wrong, that's what I don't think is right, that after the completion of the procedure we still don't know what the criteria are that would allow for the identification of exceptionality within the meaning of Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. This, I think, is a very ignorant attitude towards all these proponents and proponents. In this way, we have smothered all initiatives, stifled all initiatives that could undoubtedly help develop individual areas. However, I will still vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you. Anyone else want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a full vote on the law. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representative of the government. Dear Members and Members! We were joined by Stanford Alumni Association, led by former Secretary of Defense of the United States and Professor at Stanford University and, of course, by a great friend of Slovenia, Dr. William Perry, who is here to visit. Let's say hello together. [[Let's hear it.]] We wish them a pleasant stay in Slovenia. Let's move on. We're at 7. Agenda items - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act, summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. There's a government representative, Dr. Greg Virant, Secretary of State. He wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u24	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! Amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act are part of a project to remove administrative barriers aimed at making administrative services available to the parties as much as possible. The essence of these changes is to introduce the principle that no administrative authority should send any party for information necessary for the administrative procedure to another authority that maintains the official record. Therefore, all data containing official records and accessible to the Administration must be provided by the Administration itself. We already have an extension for the implementation of this principle in the General Administrative Procedure Act, this is Article 139, but unfortunately it has not been caught in practice because it has not been operationalised, because there are some implementing provisions missing and also because a number of sectoral laws have broken this down in such a way as to require or require a number of annexes that need to be attached. These are extracts, certificates and other evidence. Thus, Article 139 of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which provides for the time limits within which such information is to be obtained and within what time limits the supplier of such data, that is to say another State authority, must provide such data. These provisions apply to all data providers, including the judiciary, i.e. the Land Book. Communication between the Administration and the Land Book must also take place this way. Once this law has been adopted, it will be adopted or already adopted, so it will also be possible to apply more intensively a government regulation which very precisely specifies and regulates the methods by which data is exchanged. What is the added value of this amendment to the law? Undoubtedly, the user administration will be more user-friendly with these provisions. For there will be a legal obligation or legal prohibition for the authorities to send a customer "from the counter to the counter" to obtain data. This will also lead to a greater motive for informing records and linking records. When officials are required by the data themselves, much greater pressure will be placed on what is already going on, on the trailer, on the possibility of electronic viewing into individual records. We already have good examples of the institution for pension and disability insurance is connected to the central register of the population, social work centres as well, administrative units joining the land cadaster these days and so on. And another effect seems important to us in the long term. The State Administration will begin to consider whether all the evidence provided by the regional laws is really necessary in individual procedures. So far, it has been very easy to write five, six proofs in each marriage, just in case, even if one is not necessarily necessary because the customer must deliver them anyway. Now that they have to be delivered by the government itself, of course, the way of thinking will become significantly different. Amendment 66 makes it clear that this amendment to the General Administrative Procedure Act derogates from all sectoral laws requiring evidence in the form of extracts, certificates and so on. However, the second substantive part of the law refers to the change in the enforcement of financial claims under enforceable administrative decisions. We are transferring this enforcement to the tax administration, which is certainly the most appropriate authority to recover state claims or debts owed by natural and legal persons to the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much. It will be very short because everything about this law has already been told by the Secretary of State. I would like to point out what you see in the report, in fact, it is only to supplement the law and not to amend it, i.e. to supplement it, which is a qualitative step forward for users in particular. I would also like to say that we have dealt with the provision of Article 3 above all on the Committee. My friend Vukko proposed an amendment to delete this article. In the debate, he was also attracted by the President of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, since he considered that, if recorded in this way, he would put in place a practically open deadline and make it impossible for the party to use the Institute of Silence of the Authority. The Committee therefore supported this Amendment from the Wolf to delete Article 3. The Committee also proposed, as the secretariat pointed out, that the title of the law should be changed to "the Act on Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mrs Zupanova, please, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We support the bill that we have before us because we believe it brings positive changes to citizens and citizens, as these changes mean removing administrative barriers and simplifying data collection, reducing deadlines and upgrading the current arrangements for the enforcement of monetary obligations. We want an effective, friendly and rational state administration that can and can quickly provide and provide its services. We believe that this proposal will, at least in part, contribute to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Another one of the parliamentary groups. Do Members and Members want the word? I do not have written applications, so all further discussions will be limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Yes, Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I certainly welcome the approach or intent of this law, which has been explained. I also support the deletion of the third Article, as long as this period cannot be artificially extended. In the first article, I would ask a fundamental question, namely, in the fourth paragraph, the last sentence allows the practical authority to always, whenever it obtains data from official records, because nowhere is more accurate, it can at any time question, and the data that changes from time to time by its characteristics are very numerous, perhaps the only year of birth is not such a change, but everyone else is changing. Sometimes it is also such information that a person would not like to mention in any way or are unnecessary for the process itself, I stress that it is unnecessary for the procedure itself, but here this paragraph is very wide-ranging in terms of the complete release of access to all official records. So it seems to me that this sentence should be somewhat narrower or a little bit lined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Any other Members and Members would like a word? [[Nobody.]] Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u32	The answer to your question, Mr. Cuckoo. This fourth paragraph of Article 66 shall ensure that the party before the administrative authority can demonstrate certain facts, that is, those which are recorded in official documents such as a identity card, a passport, a driver’s licence, by itself, so that it is not necessary to interfere with that method of data exchange or to look into official records, since this is the simplest way. When I get to the window, of course I can show my identity card who I am, where my permanent residence is, when I was born, and so on. This fuse may be necessary in certain procedures if facts change over time. This is really a matter of an organ's assessment of when it will check and when it will not check whether the data has changed. See, some of the data recorded in the documents are indeed unchanged, such as the date of birth and the place of birth. Variable, relatively rarely variable data is a personal name. More frequently, variable data is a permanent residence. There is no danger of this being misused, for only the information required for the administrative procedure or the decision on which it depends can be obtained. The Personal Data Protection Act, its latest novelty, states as follows: Those who make an application for an administrative service, for an illegal procedure, for an authorisation that initiates an administrative procedure, thereby presupposing that they agree to obtain the personal data necessary for that procedure. And no one else. This means that this provision, combined with the Personal Data Protection Act, cannot constitute any abuse. It only facilitates or clearly tells the administrative authorities that, in the first place, the data contained in the documents can be proved by these documents. In theory, the client may also say, get my information from the official records.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u33	Dr. Tuck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u34	I would just like to ask if the government regulation that you mentioned earlier will define that the authority that searches for data from official records will also indicate why it needs them and will control the source or carrier of these official records, which data the authority requires to be kept out of abuse. In fact, in administrative units, people know each other very well, these are thefts, and there could be embarrassment. Whether or not you have an embedded protection mechanism in such a way that the authority does not have undue access to any data.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u35	Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, Ministry gentlemen. First, I will immediately admit my great ignorance in this area, but there is one thing, one question that I think you can answer. But if it's not part of this set, I'm sure the chairman will tell me. A few days ago, I received a call from Mrs Slovenka, a citizen who lives in Germany, who asked here for a new passport and asked for an EMŠA number. She was very upset by the fact that it was totally unacceptable for her to give such information. Now I don't know if that's justified or not. As far as I know some countries, such information does not need to be provided. I've informed myself what an EMSHA is and so on. I don't know what the function is for this EMHO person to give this number when he asks for a passport. I'll be grateful for the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you. Black is not the subject of our debate, Dr. Virant, please. If you want to, of course, it's not necessary. Since Dr. Sugar asked one question, I thought you wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u38	Yeah, for Dr. Sugar. In this government regulation, which I have been referring to, of course, it is for the protection of personal data, in such a way as to ensure that the controllers of the official records provide such data only to those authorities which conduct such procedures, or only to those persons who are authorised to conduct such procedures. This means that, for example, the Head of the Administrative Unit compiles a list or, say, well, take, the Chief of Management makes up a list of officials who are authorised to conduct the local procedures. This list, with its signature and its responsibility, delivers, say, to the head of the land book in the district court, and then it knows that it can only deliver the data to persons on that list. If the information is sent by e-mail, it is also added to this list by e-mail; so that it is known that if a query comes from this e-mail address and the government information centre server that the data was requested by the right person. The obligation to exchange data and the methods of this exchange alone do not pose any additional risks. There is always a danger of abuse or undue interference with personal data, even today, and it will continue to exist. Therefore, the supervisory mechanisms, the Data Protection Inspectorate, are a weakly teamed body in the Ministry of Justice, which has this function to go from body to body and verify all views, and each view must be recorded and, in each view, shall also be indicated for each issue of the data, to whom and for what purpose it has been issued. Mr. Bernick. I believe that, although the regulation should be given a closer look at this, I believe that the issue of a passport in this case requires a uniform citizen's home number. The problem of this number is sometimes, in my opinion, overblown. In fact, this number is nothing more than the identification of an individual. The individual is identified by his name and surname, but that alone is not enough. [[For example, Janezov Novakov is in Slovenia thousands]] . Additional identification may be a permanent residence, a date of birth, but in fact we have a country in which each individual has an identification number that allows identification and allows for the integration of administrative records.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Dr. Virant, but he wouldn't have to answer that other question because it's not in line with the content that he's talking about. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, with Mr Virant's reply, I am not entirely satisfied that he was talking about how things were running and how they were supposed to be protected. If it is carried out in accordance with, say, good conduct, the principle of good conduct of administrative workers, thank God that is done. However, I do not think that this is enough that a strong guardian must be at least at the level of the sub-law for all employees, especially because we are going through a new way of communicating where the potential for these abuses is very high, so it is not possible to leave this alone. In your opinion, is the law sufficiently well guaranteed, and how - this is my question - should this be regulated in sub-laws? That's the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u41	I must point out that we have to stick to the rules of procedure and what is the content of the law, but not what will happen in the law, because this is not a proposal for this debate. I'm sorry to kind of restrict you this way, but we're not going anywhere. We are now at first reading and we are talking about the objectives of the law. This is a general debate. Asking what in the sub-legislative act If the government wants to answer, please, if not, I would close this debate. [[...]] [[No, no, ……]] Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u42	In the context of the general debate, I believe that we must open up the dilemmas or show the dilemmas that this law opens.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u43	Mr Drobnič, there was a broad debate on this subject on the Committee. Ask your colleague, Mrs. Zupanovo, who was with you. And now we are not going to repeat all of this debate that has been on the committee, because this is not going anywhere. Why do we have people on individual committees in the parliamentary groups? So they can let us know what we're talking about. We are now repeating the debate that has been on the committee and I will not allow it, because the committee has been very much involved in the debate for a long time on these matters. I'm sorry, no. The government doesn't want to answer because it's been answering the board for an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u44	Mr President, you interrupted me. You could have let me finish my thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u45	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I have also participated in these discussions, but it is not said that everything that opens up is only on the committee. I think we could just give it a minute. Why not? Everyone can't be on the board either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u47	I apologize for interrupting. Can we close the general debate? [[Yeah.]] I am concluding the general debate and moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let's vote please. [[37 present.]] Please, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u48	My device isn't working.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u49	Or can I ask you to insert the card again and try again, you will see if - this sometimes happens, now we see when we have some practice. Is it working yet? Thank you. Please, colleagues and colleagues who are nearby to join us, because otherwise we'll have to. [[...]] [[The voices from the hall.]] Colleagues and colleagues, can we do it now? [[...]] We're voting next time, please. Second time on this procedural decision. Let's vote, please. [[43 present.]] There's 55 of us in the hall, so it doesn't make any sense, but what we want. We'll resume at 11.14 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thirdly, we will vote on this procedural decision, for which we also, of course, need an appropriate majority. It's just a simple conclusion. We will vote for the third time. May I ask Members if they sit down? Mr. Mamić, we're not going anywhere like this. This is the third time we have voted. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 45 members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act, the reduced procedure, 28.5. One sheet of paper contains these amendments and we go straight to Article 3. We have an amendment here. I am opening a debate on the amendment and the article. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 42 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We're still voting. Sorry. The article is lined. Here's the amendment for the new 4a. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u51	I'd have a more question, I'd like to ask our secretariat to keep an eye on it if it can give its opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you. Any other Members? Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, in this amendment, I fully understand the intention of the proposer, but I fear that in implementation, it is a transitional period of two years, of course also administrative workers in certain cases could hide behind this provision and force the parties to obtain some data, although we have clearly stated with this amendment that when it comes to data and they are within the national administration, they are to be collected on official duty. Only this dilemma arises to me, but I would also like to hear the applicant's argument.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u54	Good. First the opinion of our secretariat, then the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. In the review of this amendment, of course, the secretariat is also of the opinion, as some Members, that, during this interim period, the proposal sought to provide in fact a softer version of the provision introduced by this new law. This is because the information of administrative units is not fully established, of course, administrative units decide in most cases at the first stage, and due to the lack of this information, in some cases the customer will have to provide additional information. Of course, this allows a certain discretionary right to the administrative authority, so that in certain cases, the authority is allowed, under the terms of reference, I will say, 'explain' to the fact that it does not have or cannot obtain this information and will be able to request it from the party within two years. As I have already said, this is a milder variant of the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, but the Secretariat has had no doubts as to whether this period is two years; of course, the provisions of this Act will be implemented accurately after two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u57	The purpose was exactly the opposite of giving any special leave. The purpose was twofold. On the one hand, to avoid situations where administrative authorities or officials would refuse to apply Article 139, that is to say that it is an obligation for them to obtain the data themselves, because that is impossible, because we do not know where these data are, no one can ask of us the impossible, and so on and so forth. This amendment merely states that when records are dispersed, for example, school data, each school keeps them to itself, that in such cases the party must simply state a circumstance from which it is clear who is keeping the record. This will force the administrative authority to write down the form as one column, the institution where the party school is. The client will write where the school is, and this will also give the authority information on where to look for evidence that the client is actually being trained. The second thing in which the government forces it is to centralise and inform records, because this exception only applies for two years, after two years it will have to be clear for each information in which record is kept and on which body we turn for this information. Therefore, for information on whether a school is being held and at which institution the school is being held, any administrative authority will be able to contact the Ministry of Education, which at that time will have to establish a single record. They will also need to be informed and centralised in two years of the tax records that are scattered today and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a new Article 4.a. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 41 members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Nobody.]] I note that the new Article 4a has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Please, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u59	I would like to say something about this Article 1 or the concerns of colleagues on the last sentence of Article 66, paragraph 4. Otherwise, I understand Mr Drobnik and others because of the possibility of misuse of personal data. After all, there is a known case when it even happened in the Slovenian police and, in my opinion, even a crime was committed. However, it is necessary to know that this cannot be prevented by any law, such a perfect law, and that if people do not use it, it can, of course, permit abuse. But I would like to say that there is a system that is being established, and also a culture works to say people and these supervisory institutions, who would worry about it, I am sure that with time, with action, to improve and, of course, for that reason, I will say, I am not afraid to support such a solution as is written here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about articles with which no amendments have been tabled? No one else. Then we may proceed to decide on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 43 Members and Members voted in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the rest of the articles are accepted and passed to the title of the law. We have an amendment here. I'm putting an amendment to the title of the law in the debate. Anybody want a word? The opening statement was already explained. Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the title of the law. Let's vote. Let's vote, please! Of the 47 present, 44 members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against?]] The address is also completely amended and can be moved to the third reading. Do they wish to submit an amendment to this Article: 3, 4a and the address of a qualified proposer? No, no, no. Does anyone want to discuss the law in its entirety? No, no, no. Then we can move on to the issue of coherence. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if, due to the amendments adopted, they have been violated mutually in accordance with the provisions of the law? It's not. We are voting on the law as a whole. Let's vote on the law as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 49 present, 47 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We move on to the 7th A-point of the day - Third defense of the bill on the registration of the right to freedom. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the full floor to Members and Members of Parliament on the proposal. There's no application for discussion. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments, here we have an amendment, an amendment by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the bill on registering of electoral rights, thirdly, the date is 16.5. You'll find it in the government's files, the bill on the register of electoral law. It's at the end. So, the last page of this material, the bill on registering electoral law. If you're so kind and look at it, there's this amendment on the back. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss the amendment, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on this amendment. Let's vote, please! 45. Of course, there are many more of us in the hall. I'd like you to take a look. We'll vote next time. This amendment will be voted on a second time. Let's vote, please! 44. There's 52 of us in the hall. From 11.04 to 11.14 we had a vacation. That's what they say. Every 14 minutes, we'll have a break if it goes that way. It's 11:38.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u61	Colleagues and colleagues! We will continue the meeting and we will vote for the third time on the proposed amendment to Article 30. Please calm down and take your seats. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment to Article 30. We're voting, please. There are 46 Members and Members of Parliament present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 30 has been adopted. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendment violates the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a full vote on the law. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 47, one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. On the 3rd page of the Internal Policy Committee, you have a proposal for an additional decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall authorise the Secretariat of Law and Legal Affairs, in cooperation with the proposer, to carry out appropriate editorial corrections to the text of the electoral law record." Does anyone want to discuss the proposal for an additional decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I shall put the motion for an additional decision to the vote. Let's vote, please. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. TIME OF DAY - THIRD DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE GOVERNMENT (EPA 280/III). The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Mr. Lavrinc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. As you know, it is the first in the package of laws in the field of state administration, and I think it is right to thank, as chairman of the committee, the colleagues and colleagues who have endured this pace of work first. I have to say that the work was hard, because the text was grinding from the treatment to the treatment and it took a lot of attention not to do anything stupid at the third reading. Secondly, what I would like to say is that I have to thank my colleagues and my colleagues on the committee, who have been preparing reports very quickly, because you know that the procedure has been extremely difficult and fast and that it is a large set of laws. And thirdly, what I would say is that I have to give special thanks, of course, to the representatives and representatives of the secretariat for legislation and legal affairs, because without their help there would certainly not be such texts as are now before you. As for the report itself to this law, the following. I propose, therefore, that the Committee propose to the National Assembly that, as is clear from the decision, it support the amendments supported by the Committee and together with the same additional decision, namely, that the secretariat and the proposer make an effort to obtain a copy of the integral text, as was actually desired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you, Chairman of the Board. Does the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] No one signed up for the debate. I am giving the debate to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? [[Not at all.]] Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate following the review of the amendments of 30.5.2002. I will make amendments to article 11 of the law to discuss and decide. First the amendment to the amendment and second point of the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate and we're going to make a decision. We decide first on point 1 k11. Article, amendment to amendment. We're voting, please. 46 Members and Members present. 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment to the amendment was accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment referred to in points 2 to 11. We're voting, please. The presence of 46 Members and Members. 45 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. In order to discuss and decide, I shall put Article 23, or amendment, to Article 23. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] Let's go make a decision. We vote, please, on the amendment to Article 23. Presence only 42. I know there are more of us in the hall, and I ask your attention, and we will vote again. We'll vote next time. The presence of 48 Members and Members, 42 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. I am making an amendment to Article 26 for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate and we're going to make a decision. We're voting, please. The presence of 51 Members and Members, 45 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The amendment to Article 26 has been adopted. I am making an amendment to Article 43 for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? Because no, I am closing the debate and putting an amendment to the decision-making process. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The amendment to Article 43 has been adopted. I am putting two amendments to Article 50 to the debate and to the decision-making process. Anybody want to talk? Because no, thank you, I'm putting an amendment under point one. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members of Parliament present, 49 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The amendment under point one has been adopted. In making my decision, I'm putting an amendment under point two. We're voting, please. The 50 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. I shall put Article 53 or the amendment to Article 53 into discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate and we're going to make a decision. We're voting, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The amendment to Article 53 has been adopted. I am making an amendment to Article 55 for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate and make an amendment to the decision-making process. We're voting, please. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members of Parliament present. The vote is 39, no one's against it. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. I am making an amendment to Article 56 for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? I don't see a desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate and we're going to make a decision. We're voting, please. We weren't focused again. I call on you to gather so much strength and complete this agenda as soon as possible. Since there was no debate, there is no disputed vote. I will repeat the vote. We'll vote next time. Let's vote next time! Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members of Parliament present. The vote was 42, 3 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put two amendments to Article 73 to the debate and to the decision. Anybody want a debate? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. First, the amendment to the amendment in paragraph 1 to Article 73. Let's vote, please! There are 52 Members and Members of Parliament present. 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. And the amendment under point 2. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members of Parliament present. 46 votes for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under point 2 has been adopted. I am putting two amendments to Article 74 to the debate and to the decision-making process. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment referred to in point 1 of Article 74. Let's vote! There are 52 Members and Members of Parliament present. 50 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under point 1 has been adopted. And the amendment under point 2. Let's vote, please! There are 52 Members and Members of Parliament present. 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under point 2 has been adopted. I am making an amendment to Article 75 for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we're going to make a decision. Let's vote, please! There are 47 Members and Members present. 44 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 75 has been adopted. I shall put three amendments to Article 77 into the debate and decision. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision. We decide first on the amendment under point 1. We're voting, please. There are 49 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under point 1 has been adopted. We vote on the amendment under point 2. We're voting, please. There are 51 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under point 2 has been adopted. We are also voting on the amendment under point 3. Let's vote, please. There are 50 Members and Members present, 42 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under point 3 has been adopted. I am making an amendment to Article 81 for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote, please. There are 49 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 81 has been adopted. In the debate and decision-making I am making amendments to Article 83, three amendments have been tabled; if the amendment under point 1 is adopted to delete the article, then the amendments under points 2 and 3 are irrelevant. Anybody want a word? Mr. Bevk wants the word. You have the floor. Then Mr. Marshich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The motions for the first amendment to Article 83 - 13 of virtually all parliamentary groups - are proposed to delete this Article, thus deleting Article 83. We do not agree with the amendment's proposal to exempt tax and geodesy services, which combines the spatial and territorial principles of the organisation of administration. Since the Government itself has adopted an amendment for the third reading, which deletes the tax service referred to in Article 83, and thus has found the solution proposed reckless, we are convinced that the same logic should also be applied to the geodetic service. In the field of geodesy, which also applies to the tax area, such a reform would mean, in particular, the outflow of experts with high professional and university education to the headquarters of regional geodesic administrations or so-called statistical regions and to the capital of the geodesic administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, special knowledge that has been present in these environments for decades will be lost in different environments. According to a special document of an internal character prepared by the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia in 2003, it was expected to be completed by the Republic of Slovenia in March 2002. By 2003, the exhibitions in Brežica, Cerknica, Idrija, Logatco, Tolmin and Vrhnika would have been discontinued. By the end of 2005, the exhibitions in Sežana, Illyrian Bistrica, Postojna, Ajdovščina, Jesenice, Radovljica, Škofja Loka, Rakek, Kamnik, Domžalah, Grosupljem, Kočev, Lithuania, Trebnje, Črnomlje, Trbovlja, in Trbovje, in Mozir, in Ravna, Koroškem, in Žalec, Krske, Šentjury, Šmarjah pri Jelšah, in Slovenian Konjica, in Slovenia Bistrica, in Ormož, in Gornji Radgona, in Ljutomer and in Lendava. In the case that, as I said earlier, these expertise has been maintained for decades, and in some cases these knowledge has been preserved in different environments since the 19th century, since we have, say, geodetic exhibits that are over 100 years old. At the same time, this reorganisation, prepared by the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, also brings less than 60 cities after this version, says 60 less employed experts in geodetic administrations throughout the country. However, as far as I have heard informally, this figure has increased from March to today to 100 job losses in the field of geodetics in these bodies. The implementation of the new Article 83, as proposed by the Government at second reading, would mean one or at best a maximum of 2 employees in the administrative unit. Because of the lack of time, this worker would not be able to provide the customer with the same quality as he is now. In the case of a geodetic administration, an equivalent service to date could only be provided by a highly qualified geodetic expert with years of experience on the geodetic board, which would not be provided according to the Government's proposal, since such a worker could only perform part of the current tasks. For example: acceptance of applications, information, issuance of data and conduct of acts in administrative proceedings. In addition, the signatories are also reminded of the problem of non-coordination of the records of the Land Book and the Land Cadastre, which stems from the period of the Austrian Cadastre. In doing so, it should be noted that, in view of the differences in the data of the two records, landowners and the Earth cadastre participate on a daily basis in the coordination of data and the correction of errors. In the event of a move to regional administrations, the work is described as virtually impossible or very difficult. In the event that this is resolved by the parties themselves, multiple routes to more remote centres. For example, Trenta now has people going to Tolmin, and then they will have to go to Nova Gorica after this. Exposures should also be returned to decision-making at the first stage. Currently, the exhibitions shall carry out all work relating to the procedure and decision-making at the first stage and shall issue the acts at the discretion of the Head of the Regional Administration. The second-degree body is the Ministry of Justice, but the administrative matter of the party's appeal can only be judged from a procedural and legislative point of view and cannot assess the correctness of the professional decision. If the decision were to return to expositions at the first stage, the main office could act as a second-degree body, which could also assess the complaints from a professional point of view. During the information period, a person would expect the job to approach the customer and the employee and not quite the other way around. We also expect the amendment's proposer to take into account the full organisation of the geodetic service, as it has been regulated today, and to seek rationalisation in agreement with the other services in the administrative units using the common infrastructure. In particular, it would not be based on the rejection of the amendment supported by the Internal Policy Committee or established by the Internal Policy Committee, where, in addition to the tax service, the geodetic service, inspection services and defence, all of these four are transferred to administrative units. This option was already rejected by the National Assembly at second reading. In particular, I would point out highly reasoned material; [[...]] [[Pistol for the end of the debate.]] has prepared a tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia or its main office which opposes the solution, as proposed by the Government with the third amendment, which I hope today, we will not decide, nor will the latter, because if we adopt the first amendment, the two remain irrelevant. [[...]] In fact, the tax administration is on the ground [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u65	Can I have your attention, please? Let's not disturb the debaters.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u66	The tax administration is in explanation of its position to oppose the government's solution and, of course, to the solution proposed by the Internal Policy Committee [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u67	Mr. Bevk, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u68	I'm sorry. Maybe someone else will do it later. I'm sorry, I didn't get a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u69	He gives the word to Mr. Trofenic if the replica has been announced. No - debate; then it is Mr Dorian Marshič. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you, Chairman. I will be just one element new or one that I did not say at the time of the second hearing in my opposition to discuss also those parts of the Ministry of Defence which are distributed throughout Slovenia. Another reason is that this existing organisation of the defence system is regulated in defence matters under the Defence Act. In fact - and already there is a record that the defence system and defence matters are in exclusive national competence and carried out by the Ministry directly, and this law is adopted by a qualified majority. This would practically mean that the adoption of such a decision, as set out here, would mean that the law on administration, which is adopted by the majority, amends the law on defence, which is adopted by a qualified majority. I don't think that's working.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you for your discussion. I give my word to Mr. Willy Trofenic. Mr. Villa Trophynik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. In principle, I share my concern with the amendment's proposer, so I will not repeat what he said in his explanation of the amendment. However, I must say that I am not naive enough to believe that the adoption of this amendment would solve the situation in this direction as the proponents want. In the field, when we're discussing the first, second, third treatment, the reorganisation is happening. It's happening in geodesic and we can't stop it because they're already shutting down jobs, more demanding, in expositions and everything that the proponents would want. Once again, I reiterate that I agree with their concerns and with most of the arguments. It's happening! I would be interested in a solution to prevent this happening or to freeze it in some way. Now under these ideas - on the one hand they call geodesists or this profession to be geodesic services on the market, this is only one part of the truth. In fact, what happens on the ground distances services from citizens or increases costs, wastes of time, and more. In addition to the National Assembly and the concept, some, I will very directly say, anchor some new regional centres, as some exhibits are transferred from other exhibits to certain services. I'll specifically say, "Don't let your colleague blame you." They're being transferred to Ptuj at the geodetic exposition. It's the same with taxes. There is no regional centre, this is not going to the region. I'm sorry. I take that as an example. These are things that happen, even in the military or in this part of the administration. It's someone else who directs it in the back. And we're suckers here if we think that by adopting a law or an amendment we're doing something, and it seems unfair to me from the executive branch to do it at a time when it's happening in Parliament. It's about who's gonna beat somebody up, who's gonna stick something else in it. And of course, for this, although I agree with the motioners, I am sure that this amendment does not solve anything. However, I am disappointed at the final version, which will now, even in terms of rationalisation of administration and prudence; some organisational associations will not occur because everyone in their area has managed to prove something that does not happen to lay down these drawers, which would have a common roof, a common post office, a common car, and a common cleaner. They always explain, even some texts, that everything was under the administrative unit. It has always been understood that it goes in terms of superiority, let it be Durs, let it be an army, let it be a geodesy and someone else to list. But it would be good if we looked, I don't know, I don't want to use German terms, to the neighbouring country when you come to the administrative district with the boss and the offices that are there, from "Finanzamt" to "Standesamt" -- I'm sorry to put it that way -- and so on. But we don't want that, and there's no fear, no danger of losing the hierarchy by profession. Now, with all the efforts of the proposer and some, we will legislate some other things that do not give real new value in terms of efficient, rationally organised and accessible state administration. That is why I support the amendment, but I am not naive - I mean, the intention and the fear expressed by the proponents, what this means to achieve these services or the accessibility of services in the field, but neither the proposed solution nor the amendment solve the essence of the problem, because we have already given this power to someone who does it in my own image, I allow myself to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Trophynik. I give my word to Ferry Horvath. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am primarily opposed to amendment number 2; I have also signed the first amendment for reasons, and I feel the same way as my colleague Trofenik said. Colleagues and colleagues, the organisation of state administration is such a serious and responsible thing that recklessly go into some moves and from old mistakes to new mistakes, is worse than if we did nothing. The amendment under number 2 proposed by the Committee means, in my opinion, such a radical intervention actually in this service - I will not list them, taxly, geodetically and so on - to fear the very great damage that this could cause. I agree that it is smart at the level of administrative units - and this is to correct an old error when everything was broken down - due to rationality and better coordination of certain functions to connect, logistical, organisational, technical and so on. However, as regards the content of the activity and the necessary vertical communication in terms of specificity, importance, autonomy, the expertise of these individual activities, I think that this should not be compromised and should not be affected. It is no coincidence that the Secretariat also draws attention to the unsatisfactory clarity that it is necessary to clarify even more clearly what is actually what should be regulated uniformly at the level of administrative units. And one more point I'd like to draw your attention to. See, this article is related to Article 84, which speaks of the future establishment of the provinces. I hope we're smart enough to set them up. This is also related to how these services will be organised and how administrative units will be organised. For the establishment of the provinces - we now know whether they will be so or not - will also result from certain changes in the organisation of administrative units. And if we go into some radical changes now, and after a while, when we're setting up the provinces, we're going to go back into certain changes and actually interfere with the organization, which could interfere with both these activities, the tax service and others, as well as the work of the administrative units themselves, and their content. That way, I would be committed to either supporting this amendment, which is a day or a yes, remains in fact: either the original text or, then, to adopt the amendment of the government proposed by the Government under number 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. I'm giving the word to Jozet Auschwitz. Mr. Ferry, if you turn it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Of course, I am also signed to the first amendment, which we have already tabled in the second reading, for reasons which I do not wish to repeat and which have already been defined by Mr Sam Bevk. However, it was certainly the basis of a plan for the reorganisation of the geodetic administration, which we have received in some way by Members and which is fundamentally different and has a materially different content, such as the explanations we are hearing here in Parliament. Of course, we also often have these explanations here, but the facts are different. After all, things happen differently, as we agreed in Parliament, whether we accepted or even imagined. Not least, let me mention, for example, the Road Safety Act that we passed in the previous term. And who thought at the time what kind of stickers we'd have on cars? These are the traps that Member Trofenik has probably warned us that we are taking something here, but something is going on here that is completely different. Well, if you look first at the amendment of the committee, which I might even like in some sense, because it's much more consistent in systemic than we just do this instant geodetically. However, the question is whether we are in a position to change the system with just one amendment, while we do not change certain laws that set things completely different: the law on defence, the law on inspection, which we have here and so on. This amendment kind of cheered me up, because it proves that everything in the former system wasn't completely wrong. The system that inspections were under municipal administration, under the authority of the presidents of the executive councils, but that the municipality was then a amphibian and also a government function, is also known in 1976. Then fucked under the executive world, of course, including geodesy, taxation and all the other administrations. By 1977, however, the Medo-Chinese inspectorates had been formed. And the fact is that those institutions carried out, more qualitatively at that time, the task of inspecting and therefore were drawn from the communities at the time to the inter-ethnic level. Well, this amendment is actually returning to 1976, in some way the form of government in individual former municipalities. In fact, it may be right that at times a person admits a mistake if so. I am convinced that we cannot support this amendment because we do not have any material or legal basis for doing so within three years, or we should do a lot of things in amending legislation. In providing material and technical conditions, because I know a lot of administrative units in Slovenia, where municipal administrations and existing administrative units are dwindling, and all that they would unite me would still be in dislocated places, allowing for rationalisation in this work, in order to set up joint reception offices to set up joint courier services and so on. In short, the entire technical support will also prevent the implementation of this amendment. But the question is, why should only geodetic administrations at this point? Then what is this great reorganisation if geodetic administrations fall under the system of administrative units? Not to repeat it again; the plan that is being drawn up in the geodetic board of the Republic of Slovenia is quite different, as we are talking about, and it is understood that within the administrative units there will be some geodetic departments that will operate in the same way as the current economic departments or other areas that the administrative units know. I believe that this objective, whether it is the job and the geodesy responsible in Slovenia, will lead to this, and this is the way to centralisation. In administrative units there will be information posts and in district administrations there will be an entire section as far as the administrative profession is concerned. I've given myself the task of getting to know this job a little bit more in geodetic administrations, and I've spent some time with them. I've been warned about a number of things that we should do before we do this part of the reorganization. For example, a copy of the land book and a cadastral copy. Two documents, one and the same. Only one confirms that I have 5 hectares of land, and the other confirms that I am the real owner. For both sides, it is necessary to go to the Geodetic Authority once, on the other hand to the Court, to pay a tax on both sides and to waste time. In this substantive work - and here also now Mr Trofenik - we do not work as organisations in this substantive work. We're only working on physical movements, and I don't think that's the right way. That's why I'm going to support the first amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Auschwitz. I give my word to Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it has been seen from the performance of my colleagues that it is actually a well-organised lobbying of some feudal people who, of course, defend their kindergartens with their last powers. Why would I think that? If you read what this 83rd paragraph really is, and if you read it accurately, you'll also know what we really want at this level. Who goes into the organigram -- let me put it this way -- of geodetic administrations? We don't. Not here. Not with this article at all. We only assure citizens that they will be able to get everything at this level.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u79	I would warn all my colleagues not to disturb the debaters.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u80	No, no, I'm clear enough. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are therefore trying to provide this service to citizens at this level. What the internal organization will do, however, are you suckers if you think if this 83rd article is thrown out, it will be something different than someone who draws these organgrams will move the units - so, here and there - and so on. [[...]] They'll still do that. Either this stays or we wipe out, they'll still do it -- still, I say! That's the first thing I want to say. Second. I will not support any amendment, no amendment, no government no - they whisper to me - I will not! Because I think, if you read it, it's just -- I'll say, look, accepting applications, informing, publishing data to customers, doing individual actions in administrative procedures and so on. It's nothing more, not now to scare that everything's on your head here. There's nothing going on here anymore. And before that, you listened to Mr. Willy Trophynik, so how is it out there? I imagine that's how it's gonna be with us someday. What colleague Ašič said - I agree that we have on the one hand this geodetic administration, on the other hand we have a land book, but someone has to do it professionally, it is a big project, it can be done overnight; it is also necessary to fix the laws and the services technically and so on. I'm sure, but there's a lot of demagogies here in these things, that it was, after all, thoughtful, if we take it that way, in the second reading, the government "probably" meant something when she proposed what she proposed. And I will, at least for myself, know that I will insist on this, because it's just a guarantee that they won't take away, I'll say, from Kamnik, in fact, everything. Mr Grilj is well aware that he has moved one part of the business previously carried out at the Kamnik tax office to Domžale overnight. Nothing guarantees me, and this law doesn't - I know it - that it won't happen, let's say, even with geodetic administration. It doesn't guarantee me anything! But at least I know that by Article 83, as adopted or prepared here, on the basis of the amendments for the third reading by the government, I will allow citizens to be able to come to Kamnik to the administrative unit by themselves - so when they settle matters - and they will get what they need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you. I've got three replicas reported. First, I give the word to Ferry Horvath. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I must challenge my esteemed colleague Lavrinz. The first sentence - I take the tax service as an example - is not a kindergarten, but it is a very important one, but for the country for all important gardens or even more than a garden. We demand that the tax service is effective, we are critical of it. There's been a lot of improvement in this tax service, it's become effective, and now whatever it takes to interfere with this, I think it would be irresponsible. I still remember, years ago, even under the requirement that more efficient and more rational organisation of the tax service should be ensured, and when they were centralised or concentrated at regional level, there was a scream and shout, if any official had to, say, I don't know, drive from Radgona to Mursko Sobota or anything like that, without being threatened by citizens, entrepreneurs or other taxpayers. However, colleagues and colleagues, if we do not take into account that much of this is changing with information technology and modern working technology, if we do not take into account the need for rationality and efficiency, but go on the path of "salter" into each of you or tax exposure, then I think we are not going the right way and doing an effective service to organise these services effectively, without even doing any important service to citizens and citizens and entrepreneurs and taxpayers. So it is no coincidence that in these days, but not now, the lobby, but also some independent leading experts, such as economists, called and warned: be careful not to do some stupid things and intervene in a job that is being regulated, which is becoming increasingly effective in tax collection, and jeopardize what has been achieved. But if anything, it's more thoughtful than "on the hook." We have been working in a number of mandates for partial interventions in the organisation of the country, and we see that we have actually got involved, so it is difficult to get out of this. And let's not make old mistakes again.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you. Stanislaw Brenčič has the next replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. To ease the firm position of my colleague Lavrinz that the purpose of this amendment is just some lobbying for partial interests, that is not the case. I was already a signatory to the amendment in the second reading. And then Dr. Virant somehow convinced me with arguments how things were going and what they were meant for, and I didn't support my own amendment. I won't do it again this time. Because I firmly believe that the authenticity of accession, as the chairman of the committee probably sees it, is not present here. There is no problem that all of these services, as they are now established within administrative units and so on, should be geodetic, tax and so on, cannot be maintained. This is currently a good service, which is both professionally supported and would also say, for some career period, because otherwise a good geodet cannot be a geodet if it does not have several years of continuous experience in this local area, in the environment in which the "gro" geodesic cadastra is spread. Therefore, the idea is that the rationalisation of the state administration takes place differently. It should be reduced, numerically, so we have new information technology that makes it possible. I also don't mind that individual professional tasks are actually placed in some centers because it's a requirement. But the basic principle should remain with Mary Teresa. Someone will do this, as we say, overnight, against our wishes. Communication from this amendment and the decision of the Members, which must be positive in the first amendment. As I can see, the one who's going to do it overnight is a clear appeal that he's due for interpolation tomorrow, because that's not how he can do it. Against the service that people have had for centuries against the expectation that the country is approaching the citizen. Not at a high cost! At the expense of everything the state has under its power to keep you to a minimum. Therefore, seeking support or rejecting this amendment in lobbying is unnecessary. This amendment doesn't deserve lobbying. This amendment allows for the professional service offered by the geodetic exposition to continue. This service will by no means be able to be in this aspect of the profession in the administrative unit's administrative officer as it can be now. However, there is no need for the geodetic exposition at Vrhnika and Logatco, Cerknica, Idrija and Tolmin to be within this range of personnel at all input of information technology that gives the ability to reorganise - especially to a smaller number, not to quality. Although I am in the replica, I call on all fellow Members to support this amendment, the first amendment, and to give a clear signal to the creators of some background intervention in the structure of the service at local levels so that it cannot be done through an act of internal reorganisation of a resort in such a way. He will have to apologize politically to this thesis in front of this national assembly and lastly: in front of the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. The following replica is made by a colleague of Samo Bevk and then Jože Ašović.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President! I'd like to object to my colleague Max Lavrinz. In fact, in the material we have received, the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia states for its reorganisation precisely this law in the second reading and the solution, which provided that the Geodetic Authority would be transferred to the administrative units. Thus it writes: "For the reorganisation of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, two articles were important in the proposal of the Law on State Administration, second reading, January 2002. See, high-level government officials, such as heads of individual offices and ministers, must also respect the explanations of individual amendments. If this amendment is adopted, then the government has no right to change, to reorganise the administration as stated in the adopted amendment in the explanatory memorandum. I think that the explanation of our amendment is clear enough that this silent reorganisation, which is taking place on the ground at some point, as a colleague of the People's Party, Mr Trofenik has already said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Now I give my word to Jozet Ašić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you. I could tell Mr Lavrinc here what I didn't agree with, but I think it's right for me to tell everyone that I'm not fighting for any of my own kindergartens and that I wasn't particularly mean to this topic. But I was very interested when I received this work material to reorganize the geodesic service. Let me say that I understand that for four years I led one administrative body in Brežica municipality, which was called the Economic Department, and that I was also the chairman of all these administrative bodies, which I spoke about for three years. I was in charge, because it is perfectly normal that this matter is uncontrollable and that every department that has its own boss is responsible for the line of professional leadership against the service that he is in charge of. So I would ask the question to all those of you who are so vehemently advocating that it is geodetically necessary to get under the umbrella of administrative units. In what way will this be positive? For the people and for the profession. For people, maybe, I don't think anything's gonna change. For the expert, I'd like to ask just one question. The geodetic cadaster and the cadaver of the earth’s books are coordinated daily. This is one of the permanent professional tasks, because things are still a long way from being cleared on the ground. The Earth Book is in terrible backlogs, and in some areas the geodetic administration is far ahead, including digitisation, and with modern methods, things are much further. The courts and the profession and experts or the staff of the geodetic administrations shall coordinate certain data weekly. Where will these data be coordinated from now on from the courts and land books? In the premises of the district units or in the administrative units. That's an interesting question for me. Besides, my colleague Lavrinc says that they will do it in their own way, but I do not agree that someone will do it in their own way, because at that time, citizens will turn to our offices again with questions about what we have done again. This is the kind of marriage and organization that you colleagues, including Mr Max, set up in 1994. And after six, eight years, it's obviously a mess, and we have to put it back a long way, because it was obviously a better system of government. Don't rush. Even if necessary and if steps are needed to move forward in the reorganisation, this should follow professional solutions rather than reverse. Let not the professional solution follow the reorganisations that some have in their heads to move things. I've told you before. The Earth cadaster and the geodetic cadaster would be "comot" one document. I've been holding in my hand two sheets of paper, which is why I spent it because I went as a citizen for a while. I paid for a cab twice. One letter says that I own the land, like I said, so much and so much. And on the second list, it says that this land is so big and so big. Both are on both lists. Kataster in the Land Book still has a C-list with loads, which is no obstacle, so that it would not be a joint document that would be obtained in one place, either in court or in geodetics. Here I see progress in the work of the state administration, in simplifications, in professional solutions, not in where someone is going to be the boss. So if anyone doesn't like any boss, we need to reorganize. There's no way in hell. And there's no kindergarten and there's no lobbying and that's not the question of who's boss and who's not boss. The question is how will we bring professional solutions so that the administration can be more friendly and efficient and smaller. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Auschwitz. I have two other panellists reported and then I would like to give the floor to a representative of the government. First, Rudolf Petan. Replica, then, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I tell my esteemed colleague Feri Horvat that Kamnik has been a town since 1229, so please don't use the term "you" for places like Kamnik. That's the first one. Nevertheless, I fear that in the way you have done some things, ladies and gentlemen, sitting in the state administration, not in the government, but here, in Parliament, but those brief bureaucrats who do these things in your own way, that you will make from Kamnik a success of making you out of Kamnik, despite the 20,000 inhabitants almost as they count. That's the first one. Second. Of course, I see this thing differently than you do, and so let me tell you how I see it. As individual services will be organized, we can be here - forgive the expression! - We throw eyelashes, we won't be able to stop those who plan to. And that they have already prepared what this will look like if we accidentally accept such an amendment tells me so. In any case, we'll be manipulated. And the Earth Book is a geodetic service, yes, but as I said before, it is a long-term project that cannot be undertaken by a group of Members, but it is an expert group for the government. The government must propose appropriate legislative changes and so on. In some places, the land book is indeed lagging behind, but elsewhere it does not; it does not compare all Slovenia with Ljubljana. In Lithium, for example, you get a landscaping copy the next day, not to mention Kamnik, too. What am I trying to say? We can delete this paragraph 83. There can be no problem. We can accept, I'll say, even the craziest amendment, this is an amendment to the committee - I disagree with it myself. [[The ad from the bench.]] Please, Comrade Auschwitz, I was silent when you spoke, and now please. I don't agree with him. We can accept that. It's all tied up. In three years, let something work out. I don't believe anyone will try and read your explanation. The law is the law, what the articles say is true. What led you to want to delete Article 83 is a completely different story. I remember the proverb: The path to hell is pressed with good intentions. In what is happening now, I would particularly like to see the consistent attitude of those who are engaged in reforming our national administration. With regard to the changes in the past, I have already said here, ladies and gentlemen, at that time it was primarily a matter of resentment, as is still the case with some Members today, that everything must be broken, to be done again, because it is in fact some of the remnants of the old system. We were talking about the reorganisation of the courts, but it was a state administration and so on. All kinds of stupidity were made in some sort of pit to be moved with the old one. Of course, I did not agree with it myself, but most chose to do so. I will therefore say that I would be grateful to be sitting here today to say what it means, first, to delete paragraph 83, as proposed by the Group of Members, secondly, what it means, as I said, the most insane amendment, that is the amendment of the Committee, and thirdly, what it means to accept the amendment of the government. Of course, I expect that from the applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Lavrinz. I give my word to Rudolph Petan, who signed up for the debate earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you. I myself am one of the signatories to this first amendment under Article 1 to 83. I've given my reasons for the previous reading, so I don't want to lose a lot of words here. Maybe it's just that the option would be good if we had computer support better than we have in the field of geodesy, but we don't have it right now. There are only a few exhibits that might bear it, but everything else is so that we have more than half of the things that are not computerised and unsupported. That is why this option will not be taken into account in three years. This is the first one, and this is my basic position, which is why I signed this amendment. But good, because we've talked about this a lot, and it looks like no one can convince anyone anymore, it's a shame to lose so many words and reason. However, that this amendment is good and correct, all I can say is that we have an amendment under number two. But this amendment, to my mind, is one thank you for naivety. I'm not going to use the original title of what I was going to say. The reason that citizens will have all the services in one place in the administrative unit is utopia, because we will only carry them on paper and these things will still be dislocated physically. When it's like Mr. Trophynik said, in "becirk" in Austria, when you come to one building and then you have all the exhibitions of these jobs - then yes. Then I'm up for it right now. And not just that. I'd suggest there'd be other jobs. I have discussed this on the Committee and I have talked about social work centres and employment institutions and the like. Always then. But because we're getting rid of this in some way that we've been used to for 50 years when we've adopted a new law because things haven't been "bubbled up," but we've only done it, we've passed the law, and that's all. But in practice, we haven't changed anything. That's why this amendment is under number two naivety. And maybe Saint Simon could sign under it because he was a utopian. Those who think that you will only be with this amendment when you put the second table up on the institution, but the institution will stay where it was, will only belong under another ministry, but it is a utopia and it is naive to think about it. That's why I think this amendment under number one is even more justified. As I have already said, I think it is best that we go to the vote, and what will happen will happen, because we are already so convinced, we have not convinced ourselves on the committees how many days, but it seems that we have not convinced ourselves, except that this famous amendment to the amendment under number 2 has been made here. That's why I would have many valid arguments, and I won't say them, because I think it's a waste of time, because we're convincing each other and I think it's better that we vote, and today we do something and whatever happens. In a year or two, if we realize that we made the wrong decision, most of us will be correcting it. I don't want to remind you of anything we've accepted here, either, but we were sure it was a good thing, and it wasn't. Today you convince me that what was adopted here a few years ago is wrong, and today I want to believe that what you would like to accept under amendment number two is good. That's when you convinced us that the last one was good, and now you realize it's bad, and it's gonna be better. You're not gonna convince me that. I'm in favour of as little discussion as possible. I'm sorry I said so much myself. I think it's best that we vote and what happens is that we just get rid of these things, because obviously we won't convince each other anymore. That's the only reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Petan. Replica, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you. It is not my intention to convince my colleague Petan, I am taking advantage of the replica, I can honestly say that I will call again, and to point out that the amendment is dangerous, even though once again I claim that the concern is justified, because the article as it is, I will uglyly say, provides at least a ficus in that place. However, if this is deleted, there is no basis or tool to prevent it, I apologize to Director Durs and to the absent director of the Geodetic Administration, so that they can make their own judgements and stop the exhibitions, and what it is. It's kind of mean, but actually it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Trophynik. I now give the floor to Minister Rad Bohinc, who has previously applied.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u96	Dearly beloved, very briefly, because I agree with those who say that we have already talked about this a lot and that prolonging the debate would not make a significant contribution to resolving the issues. Basically, this is about which of the three proposals we are able to reach consensus. The first proposal means that there is no change in this area in order to maintain the situation as it is. The second proposal represents a decision for the first step, this is a proposal from the government, where the option is considered as regards geodetic services. However, the Committee's third proposal is a proposal which is a decision for a very big step. I birekel, at least as far as governments are concerned, is still an unexamined step. I changed the order. I am talking about the Committee's proposal for the transfer of all four functions or all four services. We have studied and are responsible professionally for our proposal, the government proposal. The original government proposal included, in addition to the geodetic tax service. In later discussions under the weight of the arguments that took place in inter-departmental coordination, we have given in and withdrawn the tax service due to various specifics, procedures and so on. However, this aspect has been studied extensively. However, we have also examined the variant of the transfer of inspection services, which we have specifically identified against. For us, the Committee's proposal, which is a big step forward, is too large for us, has not yet been sufficiently studied and we do not propose to accept it. We therefore remain in favour of the proposal to support at least a minimum step, this is the government's amendment. Unless consensus is reached that nothing needs to be done. This would be support for the amendment of the Group of Members. However, I would like to reject any possibility of thinking in this direction so that the applicant's starting point would be to extend the route from citizens and citizens to the country. The starting point for those who propose a reform of public administration is precisely the reverse and the reduction of this path, the expansion of this network, the increase in the number of points where administrative services can be performed. The transition to administrative units means a process in this direction. The number of administrative units is much higher than any other network at local level. Therefore, the observation in this direction, that the shortening of the path is not accurate or is not based on the facts found. So I suggest you support the government's amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. Secretary. Another replica has been reported. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I'd like to make an explanation with regard to the performance of my colleague Trofenik. The transfer of the tax administration to an administrative unit where its powers would be substantially reduced would confirm, according to the material prepared by the tax office, that of the 15 certificates issued by the tax offices, only two certificates could be issued by the administrative units. For the remaining majority, however, data from the tax register and tax records considered tax confidentiality would be required. In view of the fact that the Minister has said that the amendment proposed by the government, which leaves only geodesic administrations to reform, is in fact supported, I see no reason for this single and single exception in this law. That is why we, in our explanation, also stated exactly what we are advocating to delete Article 83. I call on my colleagues and colleagues to support the first amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u99	And I would like to call for this debate to come to an end. Still, I'm going to allow a replica of Willy Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u100	Comrade Bevk, thank you for this information. See, this is how someone else works, because there is no objective reason that if you put an existing service under another organizational board to be from 15 to 4. It's not. It's an insult to me if someone comes up with such arguments, but it doesn't matter who he is. That's what's behind when someone's doing a legitimately unjustifiable job and what's going on in the field. Just because you move, ideally stated, under an organizational scheme or combine it doesn't mean that it has to happen. This is what they do in all areas. I'll also tell you the inspection, today that we're discussing this, the heads of organizational units are calling the inspectors and saying they're shutting it down. Not that they won't work in a home town, which makes sense. Not that the exhibits stop and move elsewhere. I'm not deliberately asking those responsible here, not to embarrass them, but that's what's going on in the field.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Trophynik. Mr Virant was previously reported. Mr. Mamić, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Greetings to all present! When Mr Bevk was looking for signatures, I was immediately pleased to make my contribution with the signature, so there was no lobbying to be clear. I am pleased, however, that almost all parties have signed or supported this amendment. Of course, I'm among them for a number of reasons. Even as a builder who is familiar with geodesy and an object that I love very much, because of the people in the Vipava Valley who have also warned me about this, if you do something to your best not to lose these geodesys and so on. Now I'm looking a little different on this thing. There are so many problems on the ground that those dealing with this problem are, for example, no consistency between the disaster and the land book. But if we start splitting them up like that, the problems will be even bigger. Disagreements are so great that when a geodet comes to measure a parcel, it has to improvise something because those plans that are drawn in the days of Mary Teresa are good for those times, but that is so inconsistent that it simply has to improvise and then there are problems. If we split this up, the problems will be even bigger. I hope that this will not be the result of political decision-making, although I see it somewhere in the background. In fact, the establishment of regions, if the region is intended to take the work of the municipality, is said to be a contribution to the centralisation for which I have a priori against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you. Now I give my word to Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u104	Given that something has been said, in my opinion, very irrational arguments, including a few readings and direct questions, I would answer only one specific question. The point was to understand that only tables change and that this in itself does not change anything. However, the real issues of linking the land book and the earth’s disaster are not addressed. For some ten very specific reasons, I can describe why it is good for local services to unite. Firstly, in this way, it is possible to make more rational use of material equipment, personnel, if there is a shortage in one area, but there is not much work at present, we now have great cases in relation to passports, it is possible to prevent one from resting, while the other is 10 times overloaded, to unify the official offices of all these services, which we have tried even without an organisational merger, but it has been very difficult to have one main office, to have one secretary instead of several secretaries, to have one information office, where one person gives information about all the areas, about all the administrative services they need, a single approach when producing information brochures from domestic parties, to introduce ISO standards and so on and so on, not to mention. And, of course, the fact that a boss runs an organizational, just organizational, not substantive, is also leading all these services to take care of the locational unification. We have proof: since 1.1.1995, when things went organizationally apart, they have also gone spatial, and since then everyone has been looking for spatial solutions in their own way and therefore the state administration is in a vast state. With regard to the disaster and the book of the earth, I also feel that there is a great deal of misunderstanding about this activity or this ministry. Of course, nothing can be reorganised, nothing can be concentrated in the regional geodetic administrations until the cadastral is fully informed. However, if these assumptions were not met, only after the expiry of this period, the administrative unit would assume the exposures of what they are today. How the geodetic service will organise itself, what movements will occur between the level of exposure or the administrative unit and the regional level, this is entirely independent of Article 83 of this Act. It is even easier to centralise if this article is not, because it is a matter of one source, one ministry to take care of the reorganisation or to propose a reorganisation. Once again, I would like to make it clear that there are two principles in the organisation of the state administration at this territorial level, which will be followed in a consistent manner. If the individual departments have rushed to the right, I agree that this has happened, we will be paying more attention to these issues from now on in the department responsible for administration. Two principles: the first principle, not to distance customer services, and the second principle, to ensure that the administration is more rational. Sometimes these two don't go together, but sometimes it does. If you computerize the records, then you can concentrate the professional services at a higher level, and you can only leave below the service that is necessary for the citizen. Once again, I would like to stress not to distance the services from the parties and to ensure that the administration is more rational, that it achieves the same effects or provides the same services at lower costs. But not working on the link between the disaster and the land book, of course not. The real estate recording update project is one of the largest government projects. He's been running for years. Its purpose is to make both records definitively inform, link, and at that time there is no more coordination between them, but it is clear: the cadaver provides physical data on parcels, gives the parcel an identification number and provides physical data on parcels, with the land book these data are given and hangs on them its data on owners and other real rights. So much for work or failure to update real estate records.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Končan, is there anything else you need to explain? Then please, if you're trying to be brief.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In this debate and all the previous ones, which we have also led to the government, on the government's committees at second and third readings, a number of arguments have been put forward for and against. I am speaking, of course, of the part concerning the possible reorganisation of the tax administration. On the basis of today's debate, however, I would also like to respond to that fundamental potential, or basic denominator, which appears in this debate, in fact some dissatisfaction with the current state of the organisation and the work of the tax service in our country. I would specifically like to ensure that the Tax Service Act speaks in Article 6 of what Mr Trofenik essentially warned, but I assure you that we will not take this opportunity today if this second amendment was voted against by the government, in order to take advantage of this Article 6 and, in essence, to abolish the tax exposure that is possible as an alternative form of work, essentially by internal acts. This is not because these serious matters are too difficult and, of course, we cannot play with such things, so I am just making sure that we do not take advantage of them. But the fact is, it's the opposite. During the entire last year, the tax administration carried out a process for which the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia was signed by the Minister, also previously mine, in the sense of whether the reorganisation, which was first called the centralisation project, would then be called a project of reorganisation or rationalisation of work, with two purposes. On the one hand, to organise, staff and materially rationalise things, and on the other hand to ensure that a friendly tax service is approached in every way, as is normal in Europe and in all modern, developed market systems, even in every place as close to taxpayers as possible. As in Austria, for example, the tax service is kind and says, "Dear taxpayer, we keep you informed about this and that and that." I believe what I'm saying. Even with Dr. Marian Wakounig, who was visiting this national assembly or at the invitation of the State Council on Monday and teaching on modernisation and so on, we discussed this and I can assure you that it will not be too long that, when we are in fact supporting clearly within this government amendment, we do not want tax exposures simply to come under some organisational umbrella of administrative units because, if it is not today, it is not accessible, it is not accessible, it is not friendly, or it does not want to be friendly to taxpayers. On the contrary! All those roles in the eGovernment project are known, of course, to date, which are exempt from tax data, when, say, the taxpayer or the independent entrepreneur comes and has to receive a tax certificate, so far it has been necessary to go to the tax administration. From now on, after the e-government project, he'll get it from all the administrative units. So, in this part, in any case, two steps forward are taken. Furthermore, the tax expositions which are now in Slovenia 60 are by no means already in this abolition project, but only for the transfer of certain substantive powers, but the exposures remain. Even further, in some cases, let's say an example that we have also dealt with, Koroška, where it is already geographically abnormal, we have the Maribor tax office and more than 10 km away just an exhibition in Koroška, of course, not a suitable form. A change of the internal organisational act is being prepared, with which we will also go to Koroška to propose that we make the tax office with all the powers and powers. Not now because of this, but mainly because we want to approach where possible, spatial, organisational, human resources to get closer to taxpayers. On the other hand, we have a special tax office, where for large, certain special legal persons, everything is concentrated in Ljubljana, and of course all legal persons as taxable persons must turn there. It was only my wish that in this concern that you showed when you discussed these proposed amendments to Article 83, I will ensure that at the end of the year we are preparing changes to the tax service law, including the amendment of certain tax laws, where we want to make not one, but several steps further towards modernising our tax service. As you know, since 1996, we have reached a single tax service, which was previously within the framework of SDK and APP for legal persons, the Republic's Public or Social Revenue Authority, to bring this together. Now we want to take a step forward. In this way, you only take this as a guarantee that in this concern that you have expressed, of course, the government and the Ministry of Finance are thinking and preparing the necessary changes to the field or material legislation, so that we do not think that we are actually trying to keep this government amendment in your pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u107	Mr. Mogue, do you insist on the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you. I didn't mean to call, but the Secretary of State challenged me in the sense that he was talking too much about a friendly tax administration. It is that we accept taxes, respected colleagues and colleagues, pardons, laws and these laws are supposed to be enforced somewhere. The most beautiful legislation does not help you if you have people in the leading cities who are completely incompetent and block everything that could be done for the good of the countries when they occupy these cities. Specific example: you have elected me as a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia and statistics are a powerful tool. However, the tax administration and the Ministry of Culture block, pardon, for finances, block, and for months do not leave this body, it is said to the statistical office to obtain data on which clear projections could be made. What all the laws help us if, despite the letter and everything you do, you can't change that in this direction so that this country can breathe with its lungs full. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you. Another replica earlier, Maria Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you very much. This nice tax office looks like it takes the last money out of its mother's pocket for a bun and leaves heavy, big debtors. I have had a number of cases where we wrote a request in the office that the family be in such a situation. Maybe at another ministry somewhere. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u111	I, I must remind you that this is not now a debate on tax administration and how tax administration works, but we are still under Article 83. Try to focus on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u112	All right, I'll take your notice, but you haven't noticed that by taking a part of the tax office from Lendava to Mursko Sobota, you've made bilinguality and Lendava poor for a few jobs. The job where the worker who knew Hungarian was no longer taken from the national mixed area, but from the Murska Sobota.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you. I'd wrap up the debate if there's really something else that's important. I will give my word first to my colleague, Mr Spodnik, and then, if necessary, to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. I would like to discuss the first amendment to Article 83, group of Members. I've been listening to both the banks, and I must admit that you've convinced me of the signatories. I will fully support the amendment of the Group of Members. But when I heard Dr. Virant's State Secretary's argument, unfortunately he's not here, I immediately went for the material in the cabinet, where the Constitutional Commission is writing, and I went to look at the country's thesis. And I will read to you one government decision: the Ministry of the Interior continues to coordinate the definition of the jurisdiction of the provinces with individual ministries, government services and offices, including considering the possibility of transferring tasks carried out by the deconcentrated structure of the state administration [[Administrative units, expositions and regional units]] ".." When I listened to the argument about the concept advocated by Dr. Virant, I fear that it is already in the background, of course, the matter is already committed. It's a mess. The provinces are already here. An additional argument, colleagues and colleagues, to support the amendment of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The Secretary-General and Mr. Virant have left. I only give the last word. Mr. Concan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. But I think that this high assembly needs to be explained in essence what Mr Moje has already warned. What he warned is like a fact. It's the truth. However, I must say because he said that the Ministry of Finance did not support this. That's not true. The Ministry of Finance has always been committed to providing the statistical service with essentially all the information it is saying in the Statistics Act. It is true that legal opinions in some matters are very questionable and only what, on the other hand, the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia as an autonomous body within the Ministry, and here the present director is the one who is responsible for this and no one can in essence prescribe to him something if he cannot do so because the tax service law gives him this possibility, but I can say that we have come now to seek these solutions in order to ensure, on one side of the statistics, the data necessary for the whole country, even the state administration and the government and all other public institutions, the necessary research before the signing of the agreement. Yesterday, I can assure you, by statistics, there were some editorial comments made by the tax administration. But I just want to make it clear that it doesn't work out, so today we're before this agreement is signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Let's go make a decision. In making my decision, I am putting amendment No. 1 to Article 83, by deleting the article. We're voting, please. There are 48 Members and Members of Parliament present. The vote was 28 to 18. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 18.]] The amendment was accepted. With this, the amendments to the amendment under point 2 and the amendment under point 3 are irrelevant. We're done voting on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions. [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full vote on the law. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 50 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. Just a moment, because the President is going to take over the holding of the meeting due to time constraints on some things.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We're moving to nine. It's the third draft of a law on public agencies. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Internal Policy. Does the chairman or the rapporteur want a word? I guess not. I'm asking the secretariat, does he want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. I don't see any hands up. I now give the full floor to Members and Members of Parliament on the proposal. I don't have written-in applications, so I limit all discussions to five minutes. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments you have before you on 30 May 2002. While I must point out that now the presence in the hall has decreased as we move to a new point, I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. It's 15 minutes past 1:00. We have 45 minutes to make our decision. Colleagues and colleagues, we're moving on to a decision. First, I will put the proposal to delete the second sentence into consideration and then to decide on the proposal to delete the second sentence, this is an amendment under order number 1 of the Government to Article 1. I'm opening a debate. We're in third reading. No discussion. I shall put to the vote the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? I think we're very on the verge of being here right now. 44 present. Once again, I will ask my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall, the last three-quarters of an hour's work awaits us. Can you please confirm to everyone who is in the hall that you are so kind and now your determination and decision by pressing the button that you do not need to take a 10-minute break. Once again, I will put to the vote the second time under order number 1 of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 1. Let's vote! Please, if you can press one key. 49 present. 45 for no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. We have an amendment of the board to the Government's amendment under point 3. This is an amendment under order number two. Let's vote! 49 present. 44 for, no one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We also have an amendment under order number 3 of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 1. Let's vote! We're in the middle of a vote. 48 present. 43 for, no one's against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that we have also accepted the amendment under order number 3. On the other hand, we have one amendment to Article 12. This is an amendment to the Internal Policy Committee. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 12. Let's vote! We're in the middle of voting and on the verge of being present, so please be present. I'll wait a minute or two. May I please invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall? There are more than 50 of us in the hall. Okay. There are more than 50 of us in the hall, enough of us. Secondly, I will put to the vote an amendment under order number 1 of Article 12 and ask you to make your statement whether or not you support the amendment. Let's vote! I'm asking for your kindness. 49 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The Internal Policy Committee shall submit an amendment to Article 19. We've got him under serial number one. I'm opening a debate. There's no debate. I'm closing it and we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 of Article 19. 49 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 19 has been adopted. As of the 20th Article, we have tabled an amendment to the Internal Policy Committee. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put it to a vote. Let's vote! We're in the middle of a vote. 49 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. One amendment is also tabled for the 26th Article of the Internal Policy Committee. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. Peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote. We're in the middle of a vote. 46 in attendance, 43 in, no in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The Internal Policy Committee shall also table an amendment to Article 97. Does anyone want to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting him to the vote. Please state whether you support the amendment or not. We're in the middle of a vote. May I have your attention, please? I'll wait another minute. I very kindly ask my colleagues and colleagues who are in the lobby or in the offices if they are so kind as to join us. We would like to conclude with the 16th session today, perhaps also to decide fully on the proposal for a law on public agencies. I'm asking them if they can come to the hall. May I ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to inform their colleagues and colleagues? There's 48 of us in the hall. I'll take the risk and put it to the vote. Please, we're voting. But I would ask everyone to plead, because otherwise we should give you ten minutes off. Please. We're voting. Too bad, too bad. Colleague Pozson is here. Can we wait, because I'm going to put it to the vote again? I think there's enough of us in the gym right now. Please! I'll put it to the vote again. Okay, we'll resume the session at 13.35. I am already asking my colleagues and colleagues, politely, as much as possible, I think it would be right to try to bring this law and 16th session under the roof, despite many obligations today. At 13.35, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u119	I ask my colleagues and colleagues to come to the big debate room. We are on page 3 of the review of the amendments tabled to the proposal for a law on public agencies. It would be remarkable if, before the end of the 16th session, they were to be considered and decided on. For this reason, I ask all leaders of the parliamentary groups to make sure that colleagues and colleagues are present in the Chamber. At 13.36, I will determine for the third time the presence and decision concerning the amendment under order number 1 to 26. The Internal Policy Committee shall propose an amendment under order number 1 to Article 27. Can you please look for your neighbors on the left and right to come to the hall so that we can decide on this bill? It's 1:36 p.m. I'd like to make a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I will put to the vote the amendment under order number 1 to Article 27. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 27. 50 in attendance, 47 in, no in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. By article 32, we have an amendment to the committee. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 32. He was accepted, 45 out of 47 supported him, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have seven amendments tabled for the 50th Article. I'm opening a debate on everyone. There is no debate, then we will decide on them, according to order numbers. We decide first on the amendment of the committee to the Government's amendment under point 2. We're voting. This is an amendment under order number 1 to Article 50. May I have your attention, please? Out of 47 attending 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the government, which is an amendment under order number 2 to Article 50. We're voting. 46 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under order number 3, proposes an amendment to Article 50. We're voting on him. We vote on the amendment of the government, which is recorded under order number 3. I promised I wouldn't push too hard with the hammer, but whatever it was that helped. Now, let's say I did it again. Colleagues and colleagues would like to invite us to secondly vote on the amendment under order number 3. Let's vote! 50 present. 49 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The government is proposing under order number 4 of the amendment. Let's vote on him! Let's vote on the amendment under order number four! 50 present. 49 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now deciding on the Government's amendment under order number 5. Let's vote on the amendment under order number five! Let's vote! 49 present. 47 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I understand he's been accepted. The government also has an amendment under order number 6. Let's vote number six! Let's vote! 49 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted that, too. Finally, the Internal Policy Committee proposes an amendment, which is included in the review under order number 7. Let's vote! Let us vote on the amendment under order number 7 proposed by the Internal Policy Committee! 49 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing we've accepted it. We have concluded our decision on the amendments to this Article. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes an amendment to Article 51. Anybody want a word about him? Peace in the hall! [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put this amendment to the vote. Let's vote! I'm asking for peace in the hall! 50 present. 47 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 51 has been adopted. That's what we decided about the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the secretariat if compliance has been violated due to the amendments adopted? Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Secretariat notes that, in the second reading, there has already been a discrepancy between Articles 33, 34 and 35 of the legal text relating to relations with the users of public service agencies and Article 3 of the Law on State Administration on the same issues. In relation to these solutions, therefore, this non-compliance is also reflected in Article 50, and we therefore believe that all these content needs to be reconciled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. If the government manages to table amendments by the second hour, we will decide on them, otherwise we will have to stop this point and move it with the others to the second session. What's your opinion? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u122	Yeah, we agree with that. The harmonisation amendment is needed and is on its way, I'd say. Today we have prepared it together with the secretariat for legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u123	Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u124	The amendment will be here any minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u125	Okay. So I'm breaking up point nine. If he's here early enough, we'll decide about him today, or we'll move this point along with the others who won't be processed to the next session. I propose that we now focus on points 2b and 2.c. It's two declarations. This is a declaration of support for the resolution on the role of parliaments in supporting the implementation of resolution 1397 Yes, of course, if someone is defaming, we can go to other points, but these two are now ahead. [[...]] They were not problematic on the foreign policy committee. He will ask once again whether anyone opposes both declarations being dealt with. I know, but it can be that the Foreign Policy Committee has someone else who can propose. President Kacin, as far as I am aware, also advocates that both declarations be accepted. The Vice-President of the Committee, Comrade Podobnik, may do so if any questions need to be answered. [[Yeah.]] Okay. I suggest we finish these two points. So I suggest we go to 2.b and 2.c. We have a motion for a declaration on the support of the Resolution on the role of Parliamentaries in support of the implementation of Resolution 1397 adopted by the United Nations Security Council on 12 March this year, and in particular paragraph in which the Council expresses its commitment to - quote, "the vision of a region where two States of Israel and Palestine live side by side, within safe and recognised borders." End of quote. All right, the proposal for a declaration was submitted by a group of Members for consideration by the assembly. Do the proponents want a word? [[They don't want to.]] The Foreign Policy Committee has considered the proposal for a declaration. Does the vice president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? Qualified proponents, qualified speakers, representatives of parliamentary groups? Ambassadors? Please, buddy Battelli first. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr President, I did not understand now whether this is a resolution against terrorism, I am simplifying, or the Middle East.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u127	Comrade Battelli, the second C point has the title of the proposal for a declaration of support for a resolution on terrorism; we are now at 2B point. This is about supporting the resolution on the role of parliaments in supporting the implementation of resolution 1397.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u128	Yeah. Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to talk to you about as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u129	About 2.b or 2.c?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u130	At 2.b.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u131	Okay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u132	So, the Middle East. Respectable. The international community has developed a series of extremely important mechanisms to avoid the dangers of war and other acts of violence. All these mechanisms can be usable and even more effective when it comes to countries. In the Middle East, we have a situation in which there is an Israeli state, which we all recognize, somewhere recognised by practically the entire international community, and Palestine does not exist as a country, which means that all concepts and from occupation to state terrorism, which this resolution condemns and so on, are essentially in a region where violence has been going on for decades and decades - are not usable. And for this reason, I would like to point out to this assembly the need to start thinking about the recognition of the Palestinian State as an independent state as an element, as an essential element, a step, a historic step towards peace in the Middle East. It was yesterday that the most important newspapers in Europe also issued an appeal by very distinguished independent intellectuals on this issue, and I believe that our government and our foreign ministry should take so much responsibility to start thinking seriously about this possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much, colleague Battelli. Anyone else want a word? Comrade Kacin on behalf of the group or? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u134	In his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u135	In my own name. Please, you're limited to five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The situation in the Middle East and the crisis in the territory of the State of Israel and by this country of occupied Arab territories is not only the problem of Asia, but also of Europe and the whole world and thus of the Republic of Slovenia. What is happening there also has a direct impact on our relationship with NATO. Therefore, the population of the Republic of Slovenia largely attribute what is happening there to the relationship of NATO, not because it would then intervene, but because they are convinced that America does not do enough to convince Israel not to do so anymore. Suicide attacks are not and cannot be recognized as a form of self-defense. This is the most brutal terror and the barbaric killings of innocent civilians do not contribute either to political or military victory and do not contribute in any way to the search for proposals for a solution to the crisis or the search for lasting peace. They are now in the stage of revenge, lack of human respect and denial of human dignity. All of this is only exacerbating. In doing so, we forget that Israel was born after World War II, by the will of the international community, as some deserved form of political and humanitarian compensation for the great suffering of the Jewish nation years earlier. With the support and political will of the international community, a new injustice has been inflicted, the first and still current victims of which are Palestinians without their own country. They are and are still suffering from the absence of a lasting political solution to their rights and expectations. That is why there is and cannot be any explanation and no excuse for the brutal and barbaric actions of the Israeli army in the refugee camp of Janin. Something like that didn't happen to Palestinian people for the first time. It was the indiscriminate and excessive use of force by the Israeli armed forces, under the command and political authority of the Israeli government, led by Prime Minister Sharon. The fact that the destruction and destruction were followed by a military blockade that prevented the aid of affected people is a disgrace. The fact that the burial of the victims was not possible even six days after the start of the operations means humiliating and embarrassing our civilization. This barbaric act against innocent civilians must be condemned and persecuted as a crime against humanity. At the same time, there is no other option than to start a dialogue and strive for co-existence and co-existence. Apartheid can't be an example or a model. They also cannot destroy or exterminate each other. Without the political will and the direct political integration of those who do not want to discuss each other today, there will be no progress. That's why there's obviously only one way. The country that is not living and who is walking through the seams has only one option, as spoke of by Comrade Battelli - two countries must be created and both must be recognised at the same time. There's just no other alternative. Therefore, it seems important to me that, at the end of this visit, what the President of the European Parliament has already told us is clear: that there is no excuse that the Israeli army has destroyed everything the European Union has financed as a contribution to the development of infrastructure for the functioning of a future Palestinian state. Everything that Europe has contributed to the development and creation of conditions for Palestinian autonomy has been destroyed in the most arrogant and unnecessary way. That is why it seems necessary for us to accept this declaration, to confirm it, even two months after it has been placed in the procedure. It is never too late for the Middle East, for the crisis is still going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We will move on to a full decision on the declaration. I shall put the motion for a declaration to the vote. Let's vote! Let us vote on the proposal for a declaration in full! I note that the declaration has been unanimously adopted. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall and so much has been supported by the declaration. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I conclude this item on the agenda and move on to 2nd C.D. - DEFINITIONS OF THE DECLARATION ON SUPPORT OF THE RESOLUTION ON TERRORISM, DANGERITY FOR DEMOCRACY, HUMAN RIGHTS AND CIVIL SOCIETY: Parliament's contribution to the fight against international terrorism and its causes in order to preserve international peace and security. The proposal for a declaration was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a colleague Kacin as the first to sign. Does Comrade Kacin want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u138	The Committee considered the proposal for a declaration at its 53rd meeting, held on 11 April 2002. The members of the Committee initially pointed out that there would also be an urgent debate on the situation in the Middle East at a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 22 April 2002. They stressed that the views and guidelines adopted by the State Assembly with the adoption of the declaration would be an important guide for the delegation of the National Assembly to discuss the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. They therefore advocated that the National Assembly should consider the proposal for a declaration before the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. In the debate, the members of the Committee supported the proposal for a declaration, pointing out that the resolution in Morocco was adopted with the consent of both Israeli and Palestinian delegations. They also re-established the issue of the definition of terrorism, particularly in the light of events since 11 September and suicide attacks in the Middle East. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Samuel Žbogar, expressed his support for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the above-mentioned proposal for a declaration, and the members of the Committee have already been briefed on the activities of the Republic of Slovenia in the area of financial and humanitarian assistance to the countries in need, whose call is also based on the resolution. But I think it's important to draw attention to something else. There was a debate on the Council of Europe. And there were representatives of the Palestinian authorities, the President of the Palestinian Assembly, as well as a representative of the Israeli side. The irony is that international forums are always attended by the representatives of the most moderate parties, those who do not even participate in the Israeli government. As citizens of Israel, these are subject to all criticisms and convictions, although they have no real impact on the implementation of Prime Minister Sharon's policy. That is why all these confrontations are much more controversial than they could be and, unfortunately, do not contribute much to the resolution of the crisis, but contribute much to the understanding of the European Members that the Middle East is a challenging topic, which we all in Europe are dealing with too superficially and too unilaterally. Therefore, I think it is necessary for us, in our national assembly here and there, to go a little deeper into things that we may be mistakenly convinced that we are not concerned or that we cannot have any influence on them. It's not like that. Each Parliament can contribute its share to understanding and, above all, to the real evaluation of all that is happening there. When they misjudged the situation in the Balkans in the former Yugoslavia, this seemed unfair to us. But when we are reluctant to cause such injustices to others, I think it is time to remember our experiences and, here and there, as I said, give time to reflect also on the causes, the current state, the consequences and possible dissipation. I therefore propose that we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin. Do you want a word as chairman of the committee?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u140	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-31-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u141	Okay. Then I ask qualified debaters if they want a word? The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] Okay, then I will conclude this debate and move on to a decision on the declaration in full. Colleagues and colleagues, we are voting on the declaration as a whole. We're in the middle of a vote. 50 present and 50 present. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one's against it.]] The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia unanimously accepted this declaration. I am in the hands of the harmonisation amendment put by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia into the DECISION on the Proposal for a Law on Public Agencies. There has been no controversy over the amendments and this law. Does any of you insist that we still reproduce this amendment, or can I just read the amendment? I can read it. The amendment to Article 3 and Article 50 - in Article 3(1), the text is deleted; I quote: "publicity of work, business with customers", end of quote, and the text, quote: "business time and official hours", end of quote. "The second paragraph is deleted." "In the first indent of the first paragraph of Article 50, after the words, I quote: 'Article 3', the following text is deleted: The proposed amendment removes inconsistencies. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then I shall put an amendment to Article 3 first. We're voting. 50 in attendance, 43 in, no in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that this harmonisation amendment has been adopted. And now I'm making an amendment to Article 50. We're voting. 50 in attendance, 44 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that this proposal is also harmonised. We are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting. 50 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We have an additional decision tabled by the Internal Policy Committee. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] Then I shall put this additional decision to the vote. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote on an additional decision on this agenda item. 50 in attendance, 44 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've accepted that. Another vote awaits us. I'm closing it. Another vote awaits us because the rest are unfinished points 2a, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 28. On the basis of Rule 73(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that those points be postponed to the next meeting of the assembly. In accordance with Article 64(5) of the Rules of Procedure, representatives of the groups of Members may present their views on this proposal. The debate of Members is not possible. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I put this proposal to the vote. 51 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] Just one more notice. Next week, after consulting the leaders of the parliamentary groups, I will finally decide to convene an extraordinary meeting before the regular meeting, which will take place in June, so we would have an extraordinary and regular meeting. We would also expect to have an extraordinary meeting in July before we go on parliamentary vacations. You will be informed of everything after consultation with the leader of the parliamentary groups, who will be in the first half of next week. Colleagues and colleagues, when I conclude this meeting of the National Assembly, today, when the World Cup begins in football, on behalf of all of us, I wish our representatives the best. Good luck!
