ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u1	I begin the continuation of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Member and Members. Anton Delak, Jurij Malovrš, Roman Jakič, Andrej Fabjan, Ferry Horvat, Danica Simšič, Janez Podobnik, Bogdan Barovič, Bojan Kontič, Zoran Gračner, Flower Zalokar Orazem, Marija Ana Tisovic, Alojz Peterle, Alojz Sok, Stanislav Brenčič, Villa Trophynik, Andrej Bajuk for the start of the session, Janez Kramberger for the start of the session, Franc Čebulj, Franc Sušnik, Franz Pukšič, Janez Cimperman and Bogomir Zamernik. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the cards and press "quorum" to see how many of us there are. 35. It's not working? Well, we'll do it again any minute, so we can check if it works. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Did you put the cards in? Can we try again now? So we're picking up the presence in the hall. The Quorum. 43. Because this was the second time it was the first time because we repeated it for technical reasons. [[...]] Wait a second, please! A little patience! Please, if you're so kind, the one who's around the hall to join us, because we're in the hall, I think it's exactly 45, so we can start work. Once again, I ask my colleagues and colleagues near the hall to join us, because we will now begin to determine the presence of the second time. We find out the presence of the second time! 43. Rest for 15 minutes. We'll pick it up at 10:30. This is the third time we'll be able to determine the presence at 10:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u2	Now, for the third time, we're going to try to figure out the conjunctivities. May I ask that those of you who are near the hall join us? Ladies and gentlemen! We're picking up the presence in the hall for the third time. The Quorum. I find 49 Members and Members present. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are invited to attend today's meeting and I welcome them. Today's follow-up to the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration OF THE DEFINITIVE 9. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on the provision of earmarking funds for the construction of state roads laid down in the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. We will then move on to the consideration of the bills on ratifications of international treaties and to the consideration of other points in the order in which they are written. We're in second gear. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the last indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, it discuss and vote on all articles of the law together. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. So we are voting on this procedural decision. Let's vote please! Of the 48 present, 37 Members and Members voted in favour. Six of them were against it. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a debate on all the articles of the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, we can move on to a decision on all the articles together. So we will vote on all the articles of the law together. Let's vote, please! 44 of us are in the hall. I'm asking you if we can take care of this because there are just so many of us that we can act. [[...]] Let's vote on all the articles together, secondly. Let's vote please! I'm guessing there's only 44 of us. So we're not concluding. I'm taking ten minutes off. We'll pick it up at 10.44.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u3	This is the third time we've voted. We will vote on all the articles together. Please, Members, if you sit in your seats so that we can vote. So we are voting on all the articles together. Third time. Let's vote. Of the 49 present, 32 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on the title of the law. Let's vote, please. There's 43 of us. We don't have to make decisions. So please, ladies and gentlemen, who are near to join us again. So we're going to vote again on the title of the law. That's another time. Please, ladies and gentlemen, if you're able to get your seats in order to make this work. It's embarrassing if we're in the hall, but we don't vote. Now I don't know if it makes sense. So we're voting. Let's vote next time! 43. Ten minutes' rest. That's what they say. We'll pick it up at 10.57.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u4	We're voting on the title of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to a decision, to a vote on the bill for the third time. Let's vote please! Of the 51 present, 42 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I understand the address has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We voted by article and address. I ask if anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I note that no amendments have been adopted to the proposal for a second reading. In the third reading, it is not possible to table amendments. There was no debate. There was no incentive for that. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We are voting on the bill as a whole. Let's vote please! Of the 47 present, 37 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Convention on the Uniting of Certain Rules for International Air Transport. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Do government officials want a word? [[They don't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Who wants a word? Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposed decision. Let's vote, please! Of the 46 present, 36 Members and Members voted in favour of this procedural decision. There was no one against him. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. So we are still voting on the bill. Let's vote please! Of the 47 present, 40 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the patent law treaty. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I'm opening a debate. Do Members and Members want the word? There's no desire to discuss it, so I'm closing it. We're back at the procedural conclusion. Since there was no debate and no amendments had been tabled to the draft law before the initiation of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Does anyone want to discuss this decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] So please, let us vote on this procedural decision. Let's vote. Of the 47 present, 44 members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are still voting on the bill as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 42 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. DOCTOR OF THE DAY'S LINE - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA ON COOPERATION IN CULTURE, EDUCATION AND SCIENCE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Please, Dr. Simonita, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u5	Dear Members and Members, honourable President! Allow me to make a simple introduction regarding the ratification of this law. The Agreement on Cooperation in Culture, Science and Education between Yugoslavia and the Republic of Austria was not included in the treaties that continue to apply in relations between Slovenia and Austria. It was estimated that cooperation would have to be based on new foundations. The initiative to conclude an agreement on cooperation in culture, education and science between Slovenia and Austria was launched in 1992. The initiative was designed to provide a basis for establishing and developing mutually beneficial relations in culture, education and science with the neighbouring state of Austria. Such an agreement would also serve as the basis for the conclusion of programmes and other agreements between Slovenia and Austria on specific areas of cooperation. On 21 April, the initiative was reviewed and adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The initiative was also discussed at the Commission of the then Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for International Relations, in May 1992, which also agreed with this initiative. The text of the Slovenian draft agreement was forwarded to the Austrian side and the Austrian side forwarded its draft agreement. The first round of negotiations took place in October 1997. Two critical points have already emerged in this first round of negotiations, leading to the conclusion of this first round of negotiations. That is, it requires the Austrian side to state the reciprocal recognition of minorities and requires the Slovenian parties to refer to the Austrian State Treaty in the preamble. The negotiations continued in June 1998, following prior approval of the Government's starting points and consideration by the Committee on International Relations of the National Assembly. In May 1998, the government appointed a new negotiating delegation. The second round of negotiations is also stuck at the same critical points. The Austrian side still did not accept a comparison of the comparison of two circles of persons, namely Slovenian-speaking Austrian citizens in the Republic of Austria outside the settlement area of the Slovenian minority and German-speaking citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. The Austrian side also initially insisted that Slovenian nationals with German mother tongue should be recognised as a group, as a German-speaking national community in Slovenia, and should be a correlat of the Slovenian minority in Austria. However, the Slovenian side did not in any way agree with the Slovenian side, insisting that the German-speaking people, within the framework of general human rights, may exercise their national and cultural identity on the basis of the 61st Article of the Constitution, which is, as you know, a civilisation article, as well as that it is not possible for them to recognise the status of the German national group. They can only be granted individual rights, but not collective rights. At this point in time, the de facto negotiations have exceeded the professional nature and have gained an emphasis on the political dimension. The report in the second round of negotiations was considered at the 71st meeting of the Government, on 23.7.1998, at which it was decided that negotiations would continue when the relevant conditions were met on both sides, and those conditions were not specifically defined. The report was also discussed on the Committee on International Relations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its 58th meeting, held on 1.10.1998. The Committee supported the conclusion of the agreement and invited the Government to examine the new designation of the inhabitants of Slovenia, which are included in the German language cultural and ethnic identity in the agreement. It was also found that the OMO, at its previous meeting, had recommended the mention of the Austrian State Treaty in the Agreement, that insistence at that time should not be binding and that it should be replaced by the words 'taking into account international legal acts and international treaties'. What is written in the preamble to the agreement. In view of the assessment that the signing of the cultural agreement with the Republic of Austria is necessary after all years of preparation and negotiation, and the fact that the negotiations have received a strong political connotation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has tried to overcome the deadlock in negotiations with the political consultations since December 1998, without the participation of members of the negotiating delegation. Following the final negotiations and diplomatic negotiations, the following solutions were adopted: The Austrian side agreed that, in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on International Relations of the National Assembly, a solution should be adopted to specifically mention international legal instruments in the preamble as a general concept by which it is logical to understand the Austrian State Treaty. In political consultations, the Slovenian side insisted that the German-speaking ethnic group in Slovenia should not in the agreement constitute recognition of the community as an entity of special minority rights, but in terms of the recognition of general human rights, which, in accordance with the modern development of international law, belong to each individual, regardless of language and nationality, and are covered, as stated, by the 61st Article of the Slovenian Constitution. These rights are, understandably, not the same as those of the Slovenian minority in Austria, where, under Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty, certain minority rights are enjoyed by a minority as such. These rights are also not the same as the special rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in Slovenia which are incorporated into the Slovenian Constitution in Article 64. Taking into account the above-mentioned starting point of the Slovenian parties, a compromise solution was proposed in diplomatic contacts, i.e. the convergence of views. In the last draft of the agreement, as consumers of programmes and projects, such as in the field of learning, monumental protection, scholarships and the like, in a special article, this is mentioned in Article 15 of the German-speaking ethnic group in Slovenia. The German text reads "Angeherige der Deutschesprachegenvolksgrouppe in Slowenien". This establishes a fundamental distinction between collective and individual rights. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, it was agreed between the two parties that, in explanation - in an explanation or explanation where - the German word is appropriate for this, "erleuterung" - in ratifying the agreement in the Austrian Parliament concerning the constitutional situation of this group by the Austrian Government, it is specifically stated that this special article of the agreement grants members of the German ethnic group in Slovenia the rights set out in Article 61 of the Slovenian Constitution. Such an interpretation is binding in the Austrian Parliament. I would like to emphasise another specificity in this regard. The Austrian side also agreed to the wording of the article on the agreement, which is entirely intended for Slovenian speakers in Austria outside the area where the Slovenian minority lives, which is the first time that it occurs in essence in an international agreement with Austria and for the first time in bilateral relations, as I said. The Austrian side also agreed to specifically mention international legal instruments in the preamble. I have already talked about this as a general concept under which we understand the Austrian State Treaty as an international instrument that is in force. The text of the interpretative statement in the German text, as we said, explains or explains in Article 15 of the Agreement, namely that members of the said group enjoy the right in Slovenia under Article 61 of the Slovenian Constitution, was accompanied by the text of the signing agreement, but not as an integral part of the agreement. It is also intended to inform the government of the parliaments. Part of the clarification to Article 15 of the Agreement was included by Austria in the general explanation at the time of ratification. A statement explaining that members of the German-speaking ethnic group in Slovenia enjoy rights under Article 61 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in a specific part of the explanation sent to Parliament together with the text of the ratification agreement. On the Slovenian side, the report on the completed negotiations with the text of the agreement and the interpretative declaration also addressed the CAP, 19.4.2001, and agreed with it. After that, the Foreign Ministers of both countries signed an agreement on 30 April 2001. The Austrian side informed by note 1.10.2001 that they met all the internal legal conditions for the entry into force of the Agreement. It is worth noting that, following an official explanation by the Head of the Austrian Negotiating Delegation, who runs the Department of General Affairs in the field of culture at the Austrian Foreign Ministry, the agreement will be published only after the exchange of notes on the fulfilment of the conditions for the entry into force of the Agreement, namely the German and Slovenian signed text together, with the indication of the date of the exchange of notes and the date of entry into force. The so-called explanation, which is part of the Parliament's contribution, was published in the Austrian Parliamentary Rapporteur and has the same effect after the same formal provision as the part to be published in the Austrian Official Journal. The explanation that members of the German speaking group in Slovenia enjoy rights in accordance with Article 61 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is also included in the explanation of the proposal for a law on ratification of the said agreement submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Parliament and published in the rapporteur of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 97, 11 December 2001 and again on 9 January 2002 in the first issue of this year's Rapporteur, where a proposal for an explanatory act has been republished. This time, too, with an interpretative statement. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia transmitted an interpretative statement to the National Assembly on 18 December 2001 as well as a full explanation of the agreement in German and in the Slovenian translation. With regard to the legal nature of the interpretative declarations or explanations already mentioned, on the basis of the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly, which considered that the legal nature of the interpretative declaration was not clear whether it was an integral part of the agreement or whether it should be included in a specific article of the Law on Ratification, the representatives of the Government explained that the agreed interpretative declaration was not an integral part of the agreement and both parties included it in the explanation of the agreement when it was submitted for ratification. Thus, it has the nature of an additional means of interpreting the agreement within the meaning of Article 32 of the Vienna Convention on Contractual Law. Nevertheless, on the basis of the debate in the PSC on 20 December, the Government tabled an amendment to the draft law on a proposal by the PDO, adding a new article to the interpretative declaration. The amendment adopted, agreed with the draft ratification law and proposed to the National Assembly that it be considered and adopted. The proposed amendment of the law does not affect the text of the agreement, but it is an explanatory provision, as already mentioned in those explanations, that members of the German-speaking ethnic group in Slovenia enjoy rights under the 61st Article of the Slovenian Constitution. This is essentially, as I said, a civilised article in which all modern constitutions guarantee general human rights, but not in this case special minority rights, which are under international law and the internal law of collective rights. In this respect, the inclusion of an interpretative declaration in the law of ratification is to be understood as a reference to the implementation of the agreement as regards the meaning of the text of Article 15 of the Agreement. The Commission of the State Council for International Relations has also supported ratification. I would only add the following: in the process of forming this Agreement, the Slovenian minority in Austria has been informed of the content of the agreement itself in all stages of the negotiations and the conclusion of this Agreement was also unanimously supported by the meeting of representatives of all minority organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u6	Thank you very much. During this time, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Rupel, has joined us, and I welcome him very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of the parliamentary groups are next. I have here my first written application for Mrs Majde Potrata's debate on behalf of the Consolidated List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u7	Thank you for your word. The Agreement on the Participation of Slovenia and Austria in Culture, Education and Science, signed on 30 April last year by the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia and the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Austria and ratified by Austria, grew on the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for international relations adopted decades ago and confirmed by the Austrian side in 1995. It has also been several years since the start of bilateral talks on the conclusion of the agreement. It will fill the legal gap that has arisen after the cultural agreement between Austria and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is not mentioned in the further application of certain Austrian-Yugoslovak agreements. Cultural cooperation between the two countries, in this case I mean Slovenia and Austria, although it has a long tradition, also established by various forms of institutional and non-institutional integration. The agreement can therefore further strengthen both cross-border and inter-regional cooperation and, above all, inter-state cooperation in order to achieve greater balance. The Agreement governs the relevant areas of cooperation in culture, education and science between the countries and is the basis for the establishment of a Mixed Commission, which will periodically set up meetings and multiannual work programmes. Therefore, the legal basis for the preparation of an implementation programme, which will also include general and financial provisions for cooperation in culture, education and science, which will also lay down the financial obligations of the Parties. Therefore, in the opinion of the Group of Members, it is necessary and important to conclude an agreement. However, it is important to note in this respect that the issues were known prior to bilateral talks and this has affected the time needed for the preparation of the harmonised text, at least in the work shown also in the proposed agreement and in the explanation of the Austrian Government's proposal to ratify that agreement. The uncoordinated points for which the first round of talks was not concluded were the request of the Austrian side following the reciprocal recognition of minorities and the request of the Slovenian parties that the Austrian State Treaty be mentioned in the preamble. The insistence of the Austrian side that Slovenian nationals with German mother tongue be recognised as a German-speaking national community in Slovenia and should be equal in their rights to the Slovenian minority in Austria has been exceeded and the current wording in article 15 reads: "Members of the German-speaking ethnic group in Slovenia or "Angeherige der Deutschesprachegenvolksgroupe in Slowenien" guarantees individual rights under article 61 of the Slovenian Constitution, not collective rights." Such an interpretation adopted in the Austrian Parliament should be binding. However, the question remains whether our interests are truly protected by this, especially since the Austrian side did not agree to the comparison of Slovenian-speaking Austrian citizens outside the settlement area of the Slovenian minority in Austria, and is now listed in article 16 of the agreement as 'Slovenian-speaking in Austria outside the settlement area of the Slovenian minority'. Current events and past enforcement of the rights of the Slovenian minority in Austria guaranteed by the Austrian State Treaty [[However, I am thinking mainly of Article 7]] He's calling for caution. That is why it does not show disregard for the opinion of the prominent representatives of the Slovenian minority in Austria, that Slovenia should insist on notifying the succession of the Austrian State Treaty. This is what the Joint List of Social Democrats has pointed out in the past mandate. It also appears that Slovenian diplomacy was too flexible to form the fourth indent of the preamble to the agreement, as it accepted an interpretation that the reference to international legal instruments also implies the Austrian State Treaty. The different interpretations of this international act by part of Austrian policy, as well as the constant problem of avne conclusions, should encourage the Slovenian side to be more determined. Different views in bilateral relations will not be avoided in the future. Therefore, it would be appropriate to insist on clearer formulations, as the effects will not show up in practice in time. We cannot, however, overlook the concerns of our citizens, the material victims of World War II, who see problems in the non-limitation of the Austrian State Treaty in exercising their rights and warning of denationalisation irregularities. Therefore, since some of the formulations that allow, even in the light of experience so far, the possibility of different interpretations remains in the agreement and can therefore also have unexpected effects for Slovenia, the Joint Group of the Social Democrats has been retained until the agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič, on behalf of the Slovenian national party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Slovenian National Party opposes the ratification of this shameful law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Austria on cooperation in culture, education and science, as it is evident that it is subject to Austrian interests which Mrs Ferrero Waldnereva has very well represented here, which we could not say for Mr Rupl, who has not even represented Slovenian interests, and even less to defend them or to try to bring them into this agreement. The undeniable fact is that the Austrians were able to differentiate German speakers in Slovenia and Slovenians in Austria in such a way as to have a German speaking language would say as much as a minority, certain Slovenian rights, Slovenian people living outside the indigenous settlement space, which is also not a word in this agreement, and in fact they will not have enough great rights or substantially smaller rights than the Germans. After all, it is said here that for the first time the existence of Slovenian speakers in Austria is mentioned outside the area where the Slovenian minority lives. All of this is written only in an explanation, which is by no means part of the agreement. We must be aware that the indigenous Slovenian minority in Austria is not written anywhere. It's just passing. I don't think we can say at all, as Mr Simonita said, who was extremely good at deceiving listening in such a way that with his monotonity he somehow put the listeners to sleep, that they were no longer at the point when he said that the statement was actually part of the agreement. This additional statement, this explanation of the no-agreements, also pointed out by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs when it wrote: "These two texts," this is a statement in Slovenian and German, "are in writing by explaining the bill as an annex." Exactly like no attachments, no weight and no content. Above all, it is a common fictitious idea that, in accordance with Article 32 of the Vienna Convention on Contractual Law, anyone or a party should take account of the provisions laid down in this explanation. It's just a lie! There is something interesting about this agreement. In fact, this is what it says, the explanation and the preamble in Article 1 states that this agreement between the Slovenian Government and Austria was signed in Ljubljana on 30 April 2001. The record in the Rapporteur states: "At its 53rd meeting, on 6 December 2001, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia fixed the text." That is to say, seven months after the government has already signed an agreement with the Austrians, it is only with us that it has been set up and proposed to the national assembly for adoption. What are we doing here? This only proves that the Slovenian government is an integral element of Slovenian foreign policy and that it works in the interests of foreigners, not in the interests of Slovenians and Slovenian countries. Otherwise, we wouldn't be making fun of Parliament so much that we'd let everything out of our hands here, and we'd think, even if a Member reads it, because it doesn't matter. We have a majority, we will do what we have decided and what the Austrian masters require of us. It is also threatening to write in or say that the Austrian Parliament has ratified this agreement. I would like to know when he ratified this agreement and how he could have ratified it, if the government had established the text, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had not fixed the text until December 2001. Since December 2001, it has only been a month and a half. And at that time, the Austrian Parliament did not ratify this agreement. However, if he ratified the one they signed on 30 April 2001, then the Slovenian government is making it even easier for Slovenian Members and the Slovenian people, because the government apparently changed or fixed the text only later. What does that mean? This means that it is very possible for the Austrians to ratify the agreement that they originally set out, but what we have before us, we will ratify and in time the texts will be replaced and the text will be inserted into the international acts, the text that the Austrians prepared on 30 April. We're arguing here. And in time, something like what happened to the so-called "non paper" or the Spanish compromise, which has been gone for over a year. And when the government and Mr Drnovšek claimed that this document is not that this paper is not, we had to change the constitution in a good way. I think that this is a very non-chalant and voluntary activity of the Slovenian Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this case. As Mr Simoniti said earlier, that the publication in that Austrian is, say, the Austrian Pandan of the Rapporteur enough and that this applies as if the matter had already been ratified. That's just not true. That, Mr. Simonita, is not true. And you know it's not true. But it's not fair for you to lie to the national council, that it's true. You were sure no one would notice that because most of you didn't listen. But at least some of us listen, and I can tell you that's just not true. What happened to the Austrian State Treaty? The fact that it is written back here that international legal instruments are specifically mentioned in the preamble and that this is in the preamble is essentially insufficient. Austria wants to wash its Nazi past and its Nazi guilt in such documents. Austria has already demanded several times that the Austrian State Treaty be abolished, despite the fact that all democratic Europe is based on the provisions of the Austrian State Treaty. This is not just a document that concerns us, but a complete democratic system of Europe. Of course, gentlemen of the government, I understand that you have to bow down, and to anyone else, just to get out of Europe. It's just, it's sad. This is a reminder of the time when some of Ljubljana have fled to Rome to bow to Mussolini; something like this you are doing now when you are bowing to the Austrians and Mrs Ferrero Waldners. This is not done and such matters are certainly not an honor to Slovenian politics and government, if we can call it that, the Slovenian government. The fact is that even in the explanation, the government says: "In the first and second rounds of negotiations, the entire text of the agreement was concluded, except for the proposal of the Austrian side, after stating the reciprocal recognition of the so-called German minority in Slovenia." You admit, gentlemen, that you did not know how to negotiate and that in this case you did nothing for the Slovenian side, but you succumbed to Austrian pressure. This is horrifying, and I don't know if it makes any sense to go into individual articles, but I'm sure some of them need to go. In Article 6, you say that "this agreement is also signed with the aim of objective and with the latest scientific knowledge of a harmonised history presentation". Ladies and gentlemen, if we knew that the statehood of Slovenia was essentially based on the statehood of Quarantine, in relation to the agreement with the Bavarians, and if we knew that Austria's statehood was based on the Charter of Privilege Maius, which was signed for more than half a thousand years for the Slovenian Quarantine Charter, we would probably say otherwise. Invendar the Austrians even attribute Quarantine to German historical space. You've done nothing in this area. On the other hand, it is questionable when you speak of German-speaking citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. Who is it? Can I count between the Austrians and the Germans and the Swiss, or who? By asking ourselves which national language of the Austrians is actually the national language, is that "Austrian" or is that German? I think we will probably - the Slovenian national party, of course, will certainly oppose the ratification of this document and consider it a spit in the face of the Slovenian people and the autonomy of our people. However, I am sure that the governing structure will support this issue, because it must support this matter, regardless of the damage the agreement will bring. However, I am ashamed that we have such a government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Comrade Bernik, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. This is also the last performance by representatives of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary of State! We have already worked on this treaty on the Foreign Policy Committee, and there I am the first principles of a few questions. I have to say, this contract came about for a very long time, it had a very long time of birth. Nevertheless, or perhaps because of this, it seems to me that it is relatively confused, I would say, "convolved" in English, and it does not satisfy us substantively. However, we expect to receive some explanations from the Ministry. It's just that we have to get in touch with our neighbors. Unfortunately, at least two neighbors are who have not done with their past. But when we say that, we can say that we have not done with our past. I think fair play would require that, too. When we talk about what happened there or what they were doing to us and what we were doing to ourselves, I think we should come up with some perspective on how to let history go when we clear it up and move on. This treaty is supposed to be a step in this direction. But I'm not entirely sure that's true. Look, I'll just mention one point, they've already been mentioned, but I never got an answer to that when I asked. I have a problem with the fourth preambular paragraph or two problems. First of all, he's in the wrong place. Secondly, the contents are not clear. What does it mean by taking into account international legal instruments? If I correctly understood the explanation that was given to me months ago, that means that this would also include the State Treaty of 1955. However, this State Treaty is only too important for us, so that we cannot "consign" it among other international legal instruments. I'm just wondering why our neighbor didn't want to accept a different diction. That must have been the reason. I don't know if you can tell me these reasons or not. In any case, it would be good to hear how pleased we are with this dictatorship and what legal significance it has. I have already mentioned in the past that in the international world, I will not claim interstate treaties, but for economic certainty, no one who wants to have one right is a "porine" in the preamble. Nobody. If I had done it in my past, I wouldn't have had a job there for 30 years, but I'd probably have gotten out of the company with a contract like that. Good. There were economic problems. However, this is a matter of national interest, and it seems to me that it would be good to say why we were willing to accept this and, if it is true that they did not wish to include the whole of Yugoslavia or anything similar in this preamble or in any point or article that all the countries of the former Yugoslavia or the countries of the former Yugoslavia would have placed the same point, then perhaps an interpretative statement could also be reached at this point. Otherwise, I don't really believe much in these interpretative statements, because they have very questionable legal value. But I say yes, it's better than nothing. At this fourth point, we have nothing. I'll be grateful for any answer you can give me. I would also like to hear your assurance that you are relatively satisfied that we have at least that. Besides, I'd like to know. What international legal instruments have been considered here. There's thousands of them. And who are they? Thanks for the answer. I know that the government or the foreign ministry has put a great deal of effort into this, but the question is whether this effort has achieved what we all want to achieve in the long run is that of equal treatment between the two nations, because we are at the same international level and we want these relations to be correct, equal and enforceable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does any of the other members of the group want a word? [[He does.]] Mr Jerovšek, on behalf of the Group of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister. In the Social Democratic Party, we are aware of all the difficulties in preparing this agreement, negotiating with the Austrian side and progress in this negotiation. Of course, it is clear that relations are somehow burdened by certain historical burdens, including the poor experience of the Slovenian parties with respect to the fulfilment of international obligations and international treaties by the Austrian State, in particular by fulfilling the provisions of the Austrian State Treaties relating to the fulfilment of the rights of the Slovenian minority in Austria. For this reason, we, too, regretfully accept the fact that the interpretative declaration is not an annex to the agreement, as was somehow explained on the Foreign Policy Committee last year. Later on, on the foreign policy committee, we learned that the Austrian side had entered this interpretative statement only as part of the material to explain this international agreement on culture, education and science. If I understand correctly, today we have heard a new term that this nature has an additional means of interpreting the agreement under the Vienna Convention on International Law, international treaties. So there are certain misunderstandings and differences of understanding in this area, and these are facts that give us a little bit of concern, although we believe that the agreement is necessary and that it is a step forward. Of course, we cannot fail to express these certain concerns. We're afraid of any interpretation of the diction of an agreement that could come from the Austrian side. I hope that, as my predecessor has said, we will once again be given sufficient assurances that the dictions of this agreement, the members of this agreement, are sufficiently drunk and so that in the future there may be no such arbitrary interpretation as might be unfavourable for the Slovenian side. An additional reason for some concern is certainly the fact that the ratification of this agreement falls at a time when we are faced with an unheard campaign in Austria against the execution of the decision of the Austrian Constitutional Court relating to the fulfilment of the rights of the Slovenian minority in Austria; that the legitimate rights of those minorities, which have also been subject to the judgment of the Austrian Constitutional Court, are denied by a certain part of Austrian policy and are even ensured that those decisions will not be implemented by the Constitutional Court. The current situation would be an opportunity for the Austrian side, both official and opposition policy, to be clearly defined to respect the rights of the Slovenian minority, to be clear about the fulfilment of the decision of the Austrian Constitutional Court. We do know, however, that we are witnesses, to a considerable extent, to the reaction of most Austrian parties, both coalition and government and opposition. These are the facts and concerns that accompany us at the time of our adoption when this agreement is ratified, but of course we believe that if we hear once again the appropriate assurances that some of these considerations are unnecessary, the agreement is a step forward in building a system of good mutual trust between the two countries. At the same time, we believe that some things, some commissions, some institutions, which in some ways stem from this, are said to be the historical commission that all of this brings progress in bilateral relations and progress towards making these relations in the future fully transparent and in fact develops in a mutually beneficial way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u14	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. I ask whether any of the other members of the Group wish to present their views. I guess not. I declare that three colleagues have declared their debate and have the opportunity to present their views without a time limit. This is my colleague Yuri, Rokavec and Peterle, and for everyone else, I limit the show to five minutes. First of all, he's got the word of his colleague Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u15	Thank you. Even though I don't have a time limit, I'm going to be very short, almost telegraph. First of all, it would be good to note that it would be good to explain immediately the dilemma surrounding the dates discussed by colleague Jelinčič regarding the harmonisation of texts. The agreement was signed in spring and, as I understand, of course, a coordinated proposal for the text of the law on ratification was made in December in the government. So it's two different things. Let me continue to support this agreement. Despite the fact that the concerns that the recovery from these negotiations was not the best way to make an effort on the part of our ministry and to contribute to a better agreement that would put an end to all these concerns, dilemmas and doubts. Perhaps there was no will, there was no knowledge, there was no strong enough voice, as we have often missed our Slovenian minorities abroad, which, particularly in Italy and Austria, were subject to growing pressure, and it would indicate that the ministry would say something about this. Nevertheless, I went through the agreement, read every single article and came to the conclusion that it brings significantly more benefits to both parties, as far as the alleged hidden traps are concerned. In fact, hidden traps, despite, of course, such different dictions around ethnic groups, I don't see. It is because there is no commitment in the agreement to us as a country to establish a collective rights institution. I see that even in the package of proposals to change the constitution, which we are now discussing at this time and will probably occupy this year in our Constitutional Commission, there is not. So that these fears that this would be the first time that the Institute of Collective Rights has been established for German-speaking citizens in our country or for this ethical group, I do not see. Finally, an interpretative statement, whatever its status, serves to make the Austrian side aware of how we will deal with German-speaking citizens in our country and, of course, we will guarantee them, like all other non-English-speaking citizens of Slovenia, the collective rights or individual rights set out in Article 61 of the Constitution and even when someone remembers that they would still open the procedure for the introduction of collective rights, of course, this information is sufficient. It is known what Slovenia signed this year and how it will do so. From this address, of course, I will support the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Comrade Yuri. A fellow Rokavec, behind him is a colleague of Peterle's. Only, if you'll allow me, Comrade Rokavec, will anyone then ask for a word from those who are here? Otherwise, a colleague or Minister Rupel will be given the floor and then we will go to the vote. That's what I'm saying because we're gonna have to call our colleagues to the choir. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government. I must admit that the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Austria on cooperation in culture, education and science gives me a very mixed feeling. Indeed, much of this has already been said today, but nevertheless it is possible to awaken. In fact, I think and wonder why the opposite party did not agree to the position, as my colleague Bernik has already said, that the Austrian State Treaty is expressly enshrined in this Agreement. In fact, recent developments, particularly in recent times, have in fact justified the fear that, with regard to the abandonment of this text or the non-compliance with the fact that the Austrian State Treaty is actually enshrined in this Agreement, there is something in the back. But, in fact, before we decide, I would like to ask the government representative for an answer to this question specifically here in Parliament. Secondly, as regards the interpretation statement. It's the same here. Indeed, we will make clear in our document what an interpretative statement means for us and what it also means for us to do so in Article 15 of this declaration. The Austrian side, according to this information, doesn't have that. He only has an explanation. The question arises again. Does the explanation have the same legal nature in the case of different interpretations to a particular question? At least, as we know, we have a clear case in Parliament, and what is enshrined in the law has a significant weight greater than what is stated in the explanation. The next fear is in particular related to what I have already mentioned in the question of the fourth preambular paragraph, where it is written, "only in the light of international legal instruments". If this has been recorded in the preamble, then I seriously wonder why the differentiation of Slovenian-speaking people in Austria and German-speaking people in Slovenia occurred. I also agree with that interpretation of Mr Jelinčič. In fact, German-speaking citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can be interpreted as being from Switzerland, or may be from Germany or Austria, any way. Secondly, this is a fundamental question. According to Article 16, the area for the Slovenian-speaking population in Austria is clearly defined and has a different status outside the area. On the contrary, German-speaking people in the Republic of Slovenia have status for the entire territory of our country. Therefore, I do not really understand and seriously ask, and I also ask why this distinction has occurred on either side, paragraphs 15 and 16, if, of course, there has not been an agreement on the Austrian side to explicitly state the Austrian State Treaty. Then I really don't understand why this distinction. Only on the basis of these answers will I decide how to define myself before this bill. At this point, I'm given a very mixed feeling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. My friend Peterle has the floor. Then I'm asking, does anyone else want a word from their colleagues? [[He does.]] Please, my friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. First of all, I would like to point out that this agreement has had a beard for a very long time and I would like to see, not the only one in our parliamentary group, that this process of communication with our neighbour, with whom we want to live in the best of relations, should lead to the end so that, after the final decision, there is no substantive question about the agreement. I have worked hard at meetings of the Foreign Policy Committee to clarify all the uncertainties that have arisen with regard to the way in which the majority in this House have been informed that this method was somewhat unusual in terms of normal coalition culture and operation, because it is obvious that not all the starting points were coalitionly coordinated and then negotiations took place and some things were confirmed somehow afterwards. So is my understanding or my memory of those times. That's what I'd say. Even in this agreement, as with all others so far as we have concluded or have encountered certain problems, I would like both partners to live and work in the belief that the agreement is acceptable and good, not that it is asymmetric in one direction or another and that it is interpreted on one side or on the other as a great achievement. I am in favour of the agreement if it is the achievement of both sides. I mention this because there have been various comments on this agreement as well. I think that in a subject as obviously sensitive as this, for certain reasons that I will not reexplain or comment, I would say that it is very important that we really do not have any unexplained matters at this stage of the decision-making process. On the Foreign Policy Committee, there were a number of issues that the members of the plenary could not be aware of if they did not make their own effort, because in the material we have at the time of the ratification of the agreement, of course, all of this material is not there. From this material that I have received, it is not clear how the presentation of this agreement took place in Austria, how the ratification took place, what the Foreign Minister said, what the heads of the parliamentary groups said and so on. If it were clear to Members and Members of Parliament, perhaps some questions would no longer be raised today. I myself will touch two things in further discussion, not so much on the substantive side, but on procedural terms, if I say so. I would like both sides to have a uniformly clear position on the matters that our negotiators and our politicians are asking. That is why I would like to hear from the Foreign Minister or an official on behalf of the Government, who would like to say explicitly about the preamble in the fourth indent, about the place where it refers to international legal instruments, whether the art or understanding of both sides is that this general formulation clearly and undoubtedly includes the Austrian State Treaty. Here I understand, I would say, or I know Austria's interest, I know our interests, but I would like to know first and foremost whether for both sides this formulation also means, is called "implicity", the Austrian state contract. I speak, of course, by a party who is not alone in this country, that there can be no other nation or any other newly created country in the former Yugoslavia more committed to the relationship to the Austrian State Treaty or to its constitutional task of caring in some way for the protection of the Slovenian minority in Austria, either in Koroška or in Styria, as stipulated by the Austrian State Treaty. Since this matter is so sensitive and obviously still unclear, I am asking this question clearly and I also want a clear answer. I have no personal problems, I would say with the support of such an agreement. Bipa was in trouble if he had the impression that it was a cat in a frog. It's been such an impression for a while. The second question concerns the so-called interpretative declaration. Here I have a so-called shrivelling question, given that only members of the Foreign Policy Committee were not once before the fact or the government party convinced us that an interpretative declaration would be part of or some kind of annex to the agreement, as we know the significant annex 13 to the Association Agreement with the European Union. This information remains in our minds that this will be so and that it will be in the agreement on both the Austrian side and our side. The last time we met on the Foreign Policy Committee on this subject, that was no longer the case, but I think the interpretations were a major problem. And to me to this day, and today is the last chance to ask this question, it is not entirely clear whether, if I say so, the legal status of the reference to this declaration or that statement on the Austrian side is at the same level as the reference to this statement at our level. So, in this regard, we must pour ourselves pure wine, and otherwise I think that this agreement, which has taken place many years ago, is certainly an opportunity to strongly strengthen cultural cooperation on this formal basis through the frameworks in which we have worked so far and that there has also been attention that has not yet been given, or that they have been very stingy. So, I want you to answer these two without a doubt. I know because in certain similar transactions I have worked together, what difference in words and differences in interpretations mean. Sometimes big-time lawyers say that this could be the advantage of an agreement. But here, of course, those who vote on this need to know exactly what it is, if there are differences, why they are and what these differences mean. In some ways, our secretariat for legislation also points out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Discussions are then limited to 5 minutes. The minister, Dr. Rupel, also applied for the floor. First, my colleague, Pottrate, behind her, my colleague, Kebrich. First my colleague, Potter, then my colleague, Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u21	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government. I would like to raise a question as to the form in which the text was published in the Austrian Official Journal, I suppose that is what it is called, the text of an agreement which is binding and of legal value. Although I am aware that the explanation is an important component of the agreement, although I am aware that an interpretative statement is also a binding text, it is precisely because of this that I point out that we can have different views on matters which we believe are at least for the past. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that in the translation of the text accompanying the agreement in the Austrian Parliament, it is also written in the part where it refers to the objectives of protecting the interests that the cultural needs of today's descendants of the population in the areas and municipalities of Slovenia, in which they used to speak German, the mother tongue of which is German, in such a way that cultural, educational and scientific projects in the framework of the implementation of the agreement will also benefit this ethnic group. In fact, the term ethnic group is used here, but the part of the text that I stopped and thought about thoroughly about it is that there is a claim here that these are the areas and municipalities in Slovenia where they used to speak German. If at least German had been added to the text, then I would not have seen any problem with such explanation, but would have done so. However, it shows that the fact that in the history of the area as an official language has, for a certain period, been used by the German population has been neglected, but that the Slovenian population has always lived here. And according to the statistics I know from history, the relationship between Slovenian and German life varied and depended on a number of elements, as well as on the benefits of which part of the population felt due to its national definition. Above all, I would like to get an answer to the first question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much, colleague of yours. My colleague, Mr. Kebrich, followed by Dr. Rupel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u23	Thank you for your word. I speak for myself. The deal's in front of us. There's a dilemma in front of us whether to initial it or not. For my decision, it is mainly about the strength of arguments, I do not recognise the argument of power. But I think it's the next one. Who has followed all these negotiations, since we have already heard a lot of questions, dilemmas, criticism and so forth in the Committee on Foreign Policy on International Relations in the previous term. I am not going to the debates that have already been exposed, and I do not want to repeat anything. I'll tell you what. Not only is it a feeling, the fact is that the Austrian side has debated and declared, to the greatest extent possible, and has achieved, to a large extent, only with an argument of power. They were precisely aware that we are heavily dependent on them, that we want good neighbourly relations and that we will achieve more for our Slovenes in place or for a minority in Austria and others if we agree on several fronts, and one of these fronts is a cultural agreement. That is why I am asking the same question to the Minister as the rest of them have asked him, what it means in this agreement and what weight our treaty with Austria will have. In addition, I would like to ask you a few more questions when we will be in the EU - and we hope that we all want to do so - how will these agreements, which will be concluded, be lost on their importance or their importance will only arise. Thank you, and I recommend an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dr. Rupel has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u25	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members. First of all, I will say that this agreement is important for relations between the two neighbouring countries, Austria and Slovenia, the two future partners in the European Union, the two countries they have, I think, in Europe, however, despite all the differences and despite some current problems, similar strategic interests, in this sense that we build the European Union as a country or as a community where there will be no disputes where there will be no national intolerance and where we will work together for the common benefit. I think the cultural agreement, as it is before you, is a step in this direction, and I think a positive step in this direction. That's why I won't say anything special and new if I say I recommend it for reception or support. I listened attentively to the debate in which some weighty thoughts were expressed, asking some important questions. However, this debate has in many ways reiterated the debates that we have already had in the National Assembly. I would also like to point out, in response to some of the debates, that in the National Assembly, in particular its Foreign Policy Committee or, as it was then called, international relations, this debate has in fact been ongoing since 1997. The Committee on International Relations and the Committee on Foreign Policy have repeatedly discussed the various stages of this Agreement and, finally, have always confirmed and approved what the Government has proposed. This was also the case before this agreement was signed, and so it was also after the government had proposed this agreement for ratification. Before it was announced, we had a debate on the Committee on Foreign Policy, after it was announced, we had a debate on the Committee on Foreign Policy, so that at all stages of the adoption of this text, which was before you today, we took into account the opinions, views, objections, doubts, questions raised by members of the National Assembly. I would like to object to Mrs Potrat's delegation's indication that Slovenian diplomacy was too permissive, in particular with regard to interpretation in the preamble and that the Austrian State Treaty is also part of the international legal instruments. I want to make one thing clear, which I think is clear from the very beginning. I represent the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I do not represent the Ministry of Relent and I do not represent the Ministry of War or the Ministry of War. We are trying to achieve what is possible through diplomatic means and international talks. Of course, we often work with compromises. IF THE world were created only in our image, this agreement could be different. However, of course, the world is not made in such a way as we would like in all the details, but it is a world composed of very different images and very different elements. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not about the indulgence of Slovenian diplomacy, but about the product of the government. It is a product of long-term conversation, negotiation and long-term talks also in the instrument or in the bodies of this body of the national assembly. I would not like to say that Mr Jelinčič's keen imagination has reacted because he would then go into some kind of debate that would lead us to something other than the purpose of the national assembly, as I understand it, and as the purpose of the foreign ministry and the government, of course. That's all I want to tell you. This Agreement shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The agreement already dealt with other ministers, other governments and, after all, other Members, as said by Comrade Peterla. He went through one long, I would say, a long series of various objections, questions and considered debates. Today we're just at the end of this road, and I hope this road ends happily. With regard to the question raised by my colleague Jelinčič regarding the dates, I would like to point out that, of course, the agreement was also in this national assembly, that the Slovenian National Assembly will ratify this agreement only after it has been ratified by the Austrian Parliament. In short, we're the ones who have the last word here. If this national assembly decides not to ratify this agreement, it will not ratify it. I invite you to ratify it, but the whole structure or the whole story has been prepared so that this National Assembly has the last word. When Austria ratified the cultural agreement, that was on 20 July 2001, then a note came from the Austrian side on 1 October 2001 and only then could the government send the law to Parliament. That is why this difference is in dates and I ask you not to make conclusions that are not necessary or that are completely inappropriate and that are not at all. I would really like to ask you to address the main problem in this House. The main problem is improving relations between Slovenia and Austria. If you look at our history, it wasn't always easy, we've had worse relations with Austria. Since Slovenia was independent, we have had worse relations with Austria. Today, however, Austria and I have in principle, I am talking now, of course, about relations with the state represented by the federal government, we have good relations with this country. What is happening at the local level in the neighbouring country is some sort of folklore that should not actually get us off track, and that should not be why we should not, birekel, give up some of the strategic interests when it comes to relations between countries. I would like to say this, of course, that the argument - I think that I have understood it correctly, I apologize if I have not - as expressed by Mr Jelinčič, namely that Slovenia did not take into account the Austrian side's proposal on the existence of the German minority, this argument speaks, of course, to our advantage, not to our detriment. Of course, we did not take into account the Austrian side's proposal regarding the existence of a German minority. We have not heeded this proposal and the result is before you. We have acted on the actual state of the matter and this is also in this agreement exactly, I would say, explained. In Austria, there has been a Slovenian minority for many years, recognised in the Austrian State Treaty, etc., in accordance with the international instruments mentioned here, it is recognised and functioning and has rights and no objection. While the German speaking group in Slovenia enjoys rights under Article 61 of the Slovenian Constitution, these are not the same rights as the Slovenian minority in Austria, these are special rights that are recognised to any member of any group that speaks any language. Here, I mean, of course, there must be no misunderstanding and we have talked about it so many times and we have already said so many times what is right and what is wrong and what is true and what is not true that I think it makes no sense to lose more words. Of course, I would ask that, if possible, such important things as relations between neighbouring countries should not be spoken in a language that contains words such as spit, etc., and shamefully and offensively and they have issued and such things, these words actually have no place, no real function in this debate. I agree with Member Bernick that there were some doubts and some confusion during the negotiations and during the debate on this cultural agreement. We have also resolved these uncertainties and these doubts in our discussions and discussions in the Committee on Foreign Policy, which you participated in. It is clear, however, that formulations such as those in the preamble are compliance with international legal instruments. That this formulation is also the subject of some negotiation which ultimately resulted in the formulation as it is. But such a formulation as lawyers have provided us and as lawyers have provided us, as lawyers can confirm here again today, such a formulation is quite sufficient. I am pleased that fellow Member Jerovšek has stated that this cultural agreement is a step forward in our relations. This is, as it is said, a contribution to the regulation of relations between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia. I don't think it's any harm. But I think it does do a lot of good. If we think about where our relations could be stuck and what they could do, say, to cause worse or worse relations, of course, we must conclude that this cultural agreement is nevertheless of considerable benefit to us. Just as we are coping with some of our intolerances, so they are coping with intolerance in Austria. There is, of course, a difference between the official policy of the Austrian government, the federal government and the local situation. If this agreement does not work, as is the case with this national assembly and with Slovenia, we can cancel it. This is contained in Article 21 of this Agreement. Six months before the expiry of the five-year period, we need to notify the opposite party and cancel the agreement. If we find this agreement is hurting us, we'll cancel it. I am, of course, convinced that this agreement is in favour and not in harm's way. With regard to the question raised by Mr Rokavec whether the Austrian State Treaty applies or whether we refer to it in this cultural agreement. Of course, the Austrian State Treaty applies. Every day, we practically confirm that this Austrian State Treaty applies to us. That Slovenia is a protector of the Slovenian minority in Austria. Our representatives, diplomats, ambassador to Austria recently said this in an interview that was widely complicated and so on. Our policy was to protect Slovenia from the interests of the Slovenian minority in Austria. Nothing's changed about this. However, we have taken a major step forward in the area of culture and science and cooperation in the field of culture. This cultural agreement is an opportunity for greater cooperation and better understanding. Our government, Comrade Peterle, I think you understand that, and that you actually support it, is trying to solve problems. When I came as Minister to the Slovenian government, I got this agreement on the table. And this agreement was lying to me, I would say, like a stone around the neck of Slovenian-Austrian relations. And we drank this agreement, improved it, explained it, delivered it to all the different security guards and so on. One of them is the one we talked about. It was published in the Austrian Official Journal. So now that we've added all these things to them, we're going to solve this problem. The Slovenian government and the foreign ministry are here to solve the problem, to solve the problems, to try to get things out of the agenda and to move on. The general wording in the preamble, Comrade Peterle, includes the Austrian State Treaty. The interpretative declaration, as published in the Austrian Official Journal, is tantamount to an interpretative statement, which has been published in our Rapporteur and is annexed to this Act and which has also been declared by the Committee on Foreign Policy. I completely agree with you. The Austrian State Treaty was made because of the Slovenians. She couldn't have been made because of someone who doesn't have anything with Austria that has no boundaries, no history, and so on. It is clear that this Austrian State Treaty applies. That's what we say every day. This contract, Comrade Kebrič, has meaning for Slovenians abroad and for Slovenia as a country for Slovenian Austrian relations. I explained how. I think it constitutes a formal basis for relations between countries and between the peoples of these countries to develop even better. The consistency of both texts, which disturbed you, was achieved by reference to Article 41 of the Slovenian Constitution. That's what I'd have to say in general. Otherwise, I would ask my colleague Bekesh, who is the head of our legal service, to perhaps explain some other legal detail that I have left out or that I cannot explain myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u26	If Mr Bekesh agrees, I would have done so after a debate that is already on my list. Here are colleagues of Peca, Jelinčič, Peterle, so I suggest that the ministry may then react again. Please. My friend Peca first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u27	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Basically, I must express a protest on behalf of the Slovenian National Party against the manner in which the position of the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for Foreign Affairs, is given. It is unacceptable, and also on your part, Mr President, that you allow a guest in this house, which in this case is the Minister, to define the words of a Member elected by the people, as, I will quote, ideas. And that on the part of someone who, like a bunny yesterday, was in the middle of just discussing the second law and disturbing the entire national assembly. Mr President, I really think that we should request an apology from Minister Rupl and, on your part, that in such cases, when so humiliating talks about the views of political parties - Mr Zmago Jelinčič has given his position to the Slovenian National Party - please note. And it is unacceptable for you to allow yourselves to mark our views as ingenuity. If you could tell me what we think of you, we wouldn't want to hear it. On the other hand, we will not express this here because it would be humiliating. All we're asking is for a correct relationship. On the other hand, when talking about local Austrian politics - you know, people are also dependent on local policies, especially Slovenes living abroad - and that you mark their problems or activities carried out by local authorities as "folkloro", this is unacceptable for a person in your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u28	I propose that each speaker behaves respectfully in the debate towards this high assembly and to all those who participate in the debate, and that any word which may come across in the case of the one to whom it is intended may run into a lack of understanding or disapproval. A colleague of Jelinčič, a colleague of Peterle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Rupel spoke about the fact that an agreement was also adopted in order to avoid national intolerance. In Slovenia, there were no nationals or German citizens or German-speaking citizens of any kind of intolerance, no national intolerance. But we can certainly say that these national intolerances are everyday events in Austria. The Slovenian government does not hope to raise its voice against what is happening to the Slovenian minority in Austria's Koroška. He does not even hope to demand that Austria should also take account of the indigenous Slovenian minority in Austria's Styria. And then Mr. Minister is talking about the national intolerance that is supposed to be on our side. Next, when Mr. Secretary said, "If the world were created in our image," and so on. Dear Mr Minister, the world is not made in our or in any other way, only every country tries to guarantee and define and implement as much space as possible for its people, Mr Minister, but not for anyone, especially for some neighbours, Austria, where it has actually grown to Nazism - remember, Mr Minister, Hitler was not German as the Austrians would like to show, but he was Austrian, just as Beethoven was not Austrian, who would like to be replaced by Austrians, was German. So, Mr. Minister, I don't know if this is about misunderstandings on your part, "und darf their myth immediately Deutsch sprechen, vileicht ist das besser oder...?"
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u30	Please, Comrade Jelinčič!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u31	Therefore, when you speak, Mr Minister, about folklore in Austria, this folklore, carried out by Mr Haider, is still very dangerous for Slovenia and Slovenia and is quite harmful.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u32	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u33	And if that doesn't mean anything to you, the whole world is indignant about this Haider folklore, you're kind of putting it aside. Maybe one more thing. When you were talking about why there was a mistake in this agreement, I must draw your attention to the word "definitions". In fact, I said earlier, the government of Slovenia at the 53rd meeting, on 6.12.2001, established the text. You didn't write, you sent a text to the National Assembly or anything like that, but it was just, in view of that phrase, that day that she set up the text and sent it to the National Assembly. And maybe about the Austrian state contract. Mr. Minister, you said it was made for the Slovenians. That's not true. Read all the articles, you will see that the Slovenians are only included in the Austrian State Treaty, not that this treaty was made for the Slovenians. The Treaty was made due to the complete democratic regime of a ponacy and apocalyptic Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u34	Before I give my word to my colleague Peterlet, once again, there's no need to raise our voices because we're good at hearing from the microphones. Secondly, there is no need for anyone to say words to anyone else that they do not want to hear in their own account. Thirdly, I think we can vote on the basis of the arguments after this exchange of views. My colleague Peterle has his word, Mr. Rupel, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. So I'm not interested in the relationship between two passengers in the same Baghdad, but I'm interested in what the finals of this decision will look like, and I'm sorry that the minister didn't make it clear either. I did not ask what lawyers say because the lawyers are here, the lawyers are there, I wonder if - because Mr Minister said that with regard to the Austrian State Treaty it is clear that the preamble includes it - there is the same clarity on both sides. That's what I asked. Have you considered, both ministers, not lawyers, whether it is politically clear that this matter, this preamble, includes whether such explanations have been given or whether we will be asymmetric in this regard. It's about an interpretative statement. I am happy that a statement that has not fully assured me that this statement is, I would say, equivalent in both versions. However, I am interested in explaining why it has ensured that this annex to the agreement will be such an asymmetric path, on the Austrian side it has landed in the so-called material to or at the time of the agreement and will land somewhere else. This kind of diversity tells me that you haven't considered how you're going to act in this case. I could say that I have the feeling that we were a little bit deceived, or very misled when we said that this would be an ingredient or an annex to the agreement. Today, however, we have a very, really asymmetric situation. What is crucial to me is what you said, that it is undoubtedly, I would say, the same here and there, but I also ask here - it is only necessary to say whether or not - you have the same view of the validity of this interpretation, given the different placements in official papers on the one hand and on the other. That's all I want to hear, an interpretative and Austrian state contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupel, Foreign Minister, then we'll move on to a decision. Please, Minister Rupel. I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u37	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. First of all, the last thing I think is essential. As far as I have been involved in the talks on this agreement, I must say that the ice was broken and that we came to a solution when we reached agreement, not only the Foreign Minister, but also the Chancellor and our Prime Minister, that when we talk about the group of German-speaking people in Slovenia, we are talking about what the content of Article 61 of our Constitution is. When we agreed, the Austrian and Slovenian thing, about the 61st article of the Slovenian Constitution, the ice was broken and then negotiations or talks or text could be completed. In fact, we discussed what the German-speaking community in Slovenia means, what this fourth indent in the preamble means, not only did we negotiate with the pencil in hand or with the letters on paper, but also verbally and precisely, I would say, presented the problem it is about. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Austria and I have signed the text of this cultural agreement in such a way that this declaration has been accompanied by this explanatory statement. This one was in the signature folder. It was clear to both parties that this was the interpretation of this Agreement, which was necessary in order to remove any doubts. If there were no questions like those raised here today, namely, that we doubt whether that really means writing, then such a statement would not be necessary. But because they were doubts and because they were questions, we added such a statement. Declaration in this sense that this is the 61st article of the Slovenian Constitution. I have to say that I would like this national assembly to say that I have rewarded the multi-year efforts of those who have formed, but I have not been among them since the beginning, this agreement and those who have used many fantasies to come to an end and that this agreement would be confirmed here today in the national assembly, because this agreement actually constitutes one relief in relations between countries that are likely to live together for many years and will be neighbours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I think we can go to the vote. [[A voice from behind.]] Comrade Bernick, would you like another word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u39	Thank you. Just one simple question. Does your ministry have the practice that in important matters concerning Slovenian matters, Slovenian land and so on, Slovenian people, you will get the opinion of some recognized international lawyer who would confirm your analysis and assure you that the things you are convinced of are such as they are? I think this is a very good practice, not only in business matters, but also in these international ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u40	Any other explanations, Minister? Is it necessary?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased to assure the honourable Member of Bernik that, even on less difficult issues such as this, we regularly consult all available legal science in Slovenia, both in law and in law. [[They both have a department for international law.]] , the Institute for International Law at the Ljubljana Faculty of Law, international lawyers working in other institutions where this is not incompatible with their duties [[Sometimes this conflict occurs.]] , other lawyers who have relevant knowledge in this field and here and there, or indirectly through literature, and in some rare cases also in personal contact, foreign international experts, of course only if their position is not in conflict with our interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u42	My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u43	You know, in Dolenjska we say that the mill is spoken twice, but I will ask the third time; if I do not get an answer, I will not support the agreement. The question is very clear, or more clearly, can I not put it: is the same clarity on both sides as regards the impermissibility or inclusion of the Austrian State Treaty in the preamble which speaks of the application of international legal instruments? This is the only answer I want - whether I also hold for the Austrian side to include this term or whether you have agreed to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u44	Please, Minister Rupel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u45	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u46	Thank you. So the National Assembly will move on to a decision. Before that, my fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u47	That's for me, I'll say, a very interesting explanation. I would like to know whether this part does not then apply to the declaration which the Austrians are trying to enforce that the Austrian State Treaty survived.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u48	Anyone else want a word? I find that no, and I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on that decision. We're voting. 55 in attendance, 43 in, 6 in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate the Government's amendment for a new 2.a Article and the amendment of the Foreign Policy Committee to the government's amendment. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the government amendment prepared by the Foreign Policy Committee. In the first paragraph of the new Article 2a, the words "the agreement" and the words "in accordance with the interpretative declaration" shall be added for the words "the agreement". We're making a decision. 52 in attendance, 47 in, no in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] He's been admitted. We decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the proposal for a law to add a new article 2a for article 2 of the bill, which reads as follows: "In article 15 of the agreement, the said members of the German-speaking ethnic group enjoy rights under article 61 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. 53 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] This proposal has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. 51 present, 41 for, 5 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we'll decide on the title of the law. We're voting. 52 present, 41 for, 6 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the third reading of the proposal. Anybody want to make an amendment? Article 2a is open. [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to table an amendment, we can move on to a decision on the text of the ratification law. I ask whether the text is harmonised. [[No comments.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. 51 present, 36 for, 7 versus. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. Please, colleagues and colleagues, to stay in the hall, we have not finished our work yet, we have some ratifications yet. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment and operation of cultural centres. Does the government want a word on this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee. Would you like a representative of the board to say a word? He doesn't either. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I ask, do representatives of parliamentary groups want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[Yeah.]] Please, Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. At this point, and in fact in the next, which has a similar content, only if it is another country, I would like to ask the government a few questions that would explain to me the possible direction of the government in setting up cultural centres or centres around the world that would make it easier for Slovenia to apply its cultural and other policies. We are meeting with a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the United Kingdom on the establishment and activities of a cultural centre or cultural centres. Of course, it is reciprocity that brings or I will say in the notes "legalise" the operation, in this case the British Council in Slovenia, while offering the possibility for Slovenia to establish or organise a related centre itself in the UK. And I'm asking a question about that. Today we have the opportunity to face two such cultural centres that can be set up by agreement, if we vote positively, in Britain or France at the next point. I ask the government what strategy it has and where it is written or spoken about the wider promotion and establishment of cultural centres in other countries as well. I refer, however, to long-term discussions that go back in time, as well as the agreement on a cultural agreement with Austria, and to a strategy to promote Slovenian culture through such centres. On one occasion, the government in the talks, and in fact never in its strategic definitions, which would also be explained on paper or wherever confirmed, spoke of priority centres of this kind that should relate to countries that restrict us. In short, in Austria, and I admit that even the discussion from the previous point would be much clearer, it would be much more productive if such agreements had more basis than just principled cooperation, which was the result of the previous agreement on cultural cooperation, although today on culture, so to speak, there was no talk of cooperation itself. It was then determined that such a centre would also have such a centre in Italy as a neighbouring country, although we know that a couple of cultural centres in the form of a gallery already have, but is not upgraded by cooperation in a broader sense than the cultural centre can offer, then in Croatia and so on. Of course, it also detected other centres that would be strategically priority for Slovenia, both in the United States and in France, Great Britain and so on. But today, we will confirm the possibility of two, but at the same time we do not know what possibilities the government is moving elsewhere in this regard. Under the second point, I would also like to ask the Government for an answer to the question. The agreement also discusses the possibility of establishing Slovenia, a cultural centre, by bringing a dictatorship, "the parties may establish a centre in the territory of the other Party". That it would not only be unilateral, because we know that so far it has been, since this agreement was already in force in 1993 and 1994 and was the basis for the functioning of the British Council, but that the basis it offered for Slovenia to have also, say, reciprocally in another country has never been realized. In short, this "may" gives me doubt that it remains on paper and that practice continues to be pursued so that we have an agreement, we have the British Council in Slovenia, but we do not have our own in London, which of course the agreement can bring. In addition to the strategy for the implementation of this, I would then raise the question of whether the law on external matters allows its diplomats to become directors, as this law or this agreement calls them, as possible, leaders of such centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u50	Before we give the government a few more seconds to think about an answer, let me say one thing. Today we met with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the leadership of the National Assembly. One of the conclusions we have adopted today was that the transaction in the Chamber would be arranged in such a way that, after the time available for a Member or Member’s appearance, the microphone would be automatically switched off after about 10 or 15 seconds, so that the space would be just for the conclusion of the mind. I think it's a fair rule and a rule that applies to everyone. That would be a good way to prepare for this rule. Now, government representatives, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u51	Dear Mrs. Shirca, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The answers should be self-responsible to these questions raised by Mrs Shirca. She pawned them, of course, because, I agree, the spirit of the question shows that they are not. The government certainly has a positive attitude to these issues. As a principle, there was never any doubt. Of course, the realization of these issues depends on the culture of a somewhat subdued matter called money. Part of the answer to this question will certainly have to be sought with the presence of the competent representative of the Ministry of Finance. With regard to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is responsible for international cultural cooperation within the framework of government departments, extensive documentation of our efforts to materialise the possibilities opened by these agreements may be true of the establishment of Slovenian cultural centres at relevant points, not only in the countries represented by the agreements presented here, which our ministry has put into this matter. The reality is that our embassies, I specifically know the activity of what I was working on, implement relatively rich programmes for 10,000 mark a year. In Rome, we had in the years I worked there, after ten cultural events for this money, by also collecting sponsorship contributions, etc. Centres can function relatively cheaply, but by no means, in any case for 10,000 brands. There'll have to be a front. [[...]] [[It's not understandable, the bell.]] it will achieve a critical mass in the voting on the budget and in the adoption of concrete programmes to enable it to be implemented. [[...]] This agreement, the second agreement we are deciding today, and the third agreement which will come to the next meeting, formally and legally establish this possibility and equal conditions, reciprocity with the countries with which we have concluded these agreements and which have their centres in Slovenia for many years. In short, it will depend on us when we establish symmetry regarding cultural centres and when we will continue this practice with other countries. So here - I would like to conclude - there will be a need for cooperation. On an operational strategy that requires funding, I will try to get an answer from the sources that know that. So, unfortunately, I can't give a concrete answer to this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask a question or comment? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude this debate. No amendments have been tabled to the draft law, so I propose that the assembly, in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure, decide that it will vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. I would like to invite colleagues and colleagues - so I would like to assess that this moment the National Assembly is not concluded - to come to the Chamber. Please, colleagues and colleagues come to the hall, it's a few minutes past 1300. In this last hour, we would like to do as many agenda items as possible so as not to move them to a regular meeting starting on Tuesday. I think we can do this, the rapporteurs for the main points are here. For the first time, I will put to the vote a proposal for a decision that I have read earlier. We're voting. This will also determine how many colleagues are missing. Six colleagues, seven. Let's wait. I'll wait another minute, if no one else is in the hall, I'll figure out the indiscretion next time, and then I'll order a break. Colleagues are in the National Assembly. I suggest a little collegiality between us, so we can wait a minute. I ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups if they can help us. Please, if you all remain in the Chamber now, we will vote. There are 47 of us in the hall, so that if we are careful, we may continue to work. Colleagues and colleagues! Secondly, I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision. We are voting on the proposal for a decision that we will only vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Does anyone object if I rediscover my presence? [[No, no, ……]] Once again, I propose a decision to vote. Please. Once again, I propose a decision to vote. Please, if you vote. 46 present. 44 for, no one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are voting on the bill as a whole. Please, we are voting on the bill as a whole. Please vote, colleagues and colleagues. Those of you who are not in the hall, please come. 46 present. 44 for, no one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the French Republic on the position and operation of cultural centres. Does the government want to explain the proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does he want to explain the proposal to the committee that he discussed at his meeting? [[No, no, ……]] Does the secretariat have any comments? [[No, it's not.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] I ask, do Members and Members wish to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Nobody wants to talk anymore. I am putting a procedural proposal to the vote that we will only vote on the bill in full. I propose this to the vote. I am putting to the vote a procedural proposal that we should only vote on the law in full. We've been waiting for Comrade Petan. Now that he's joined us, everything's fine. We will once again vote on the procedural proposal. Let's vote! We are voting on a procedural proposal! 47 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are voting on the bill as a whole. I am putting to the vote a full bill. Let's vote! Peace in the hall! Let's vote! I'm gonna go over it again, please. [[...]] Since there are as many of us as there were before, I suggest we vote once again on the bill as a whole. The bill is in the vote. Please, if you speak of him. We are voting on the bill as a whole. 47 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement on the International Registration of Models. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak with a representative of the Foreign Policy Committee? [[No, no, ……]] He wants the word "secretariat"? [[No, no, ……]] Emissary groups? The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We will first decide on a procedural proposal to vote only on the bill in full. I put this proposal to the vote. The vote proposes that we vote only on the proposal of the law as a whole. May I have your attention, please? We will once again vote on the procedural proposal. We are voting on a procedural proposal to vote in full on the law. I'm asking everyone to pay attention. I suggest you do it again. Does anyone object? [[He's going to argue.]] Then the rules of procedure must be followed - in ten minutes we will determine the presence. I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall at 1:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u53	I'm inviting my colleagues and my colleagues to come to the hall. I also kindly ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to assist and inform colleagues and colleagues who are not in front of the lobby to come to the hall. I'll be there in two minutes. I know a lot of colleagues and colleagues have apologized for today, but it seems to me that we are doing well in spite of everything and that we can end up doing so. We've done a lot of points today. However, I will point out that there is a presence in the Chamber that we will vote on the procedural proposal for the third time. I propose a gentlemen's agreement that we now try, we are present, enough of us for the conclusion that we are trying to do as many agenda points as we can in those 40 minutes. This is the third time we will be voting on a procedural proposal. I'm putting him to the vote. We are voting on a procedural proposal that we will only vote on a proposal for a law in its entirety. 51 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] We are voting on the bill as a whole. Please, if you vote. We are voting on the bill as a whole. 51 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. That way we can close the agenda. We're moving on to 16. At day’s end, this is a defensive proposal for the initiation of a procedure for the dissolution of the public world and the resolution of the parish of the municipality of Palan. On 14 February 2002, the Constitutional Court suspended the implementation of Article 90b of the Law on Local Self-Government, on the basis of which this item is drawn up. In view of that point, it is not possible to consider. Therefore, under the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that that point be postponed to one of the following meetings of the National Assembly. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, the representatives of the groups of Members may present their views and the debate of Members is not possible. In this sense, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? They want to? Please, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u54	We agree with such a proposal, of course. For us in the SDS Group, this is essentially nothing new. We have noted this a long time ago, and last but not least on the Internal Policy Committee, that this is probably not so simple or not all set. Legislation in this area, too, is quite hollow in this segment and will probably need to be corrected a little bit. In general, there are still many holes in this law on local self-government, some of which are not followed by the situation. The dictions of the articles are still such that they still take into account the fact that we have the presidents of the municipal councils, which is no longer. The discharge of the mayor and the municipal council, elected by the majority electoral system, is a more complicated subject than it may have seemed and, as the government might have imagined, decided to take such a step. We believe that the government has fallen heavily in this regard, and we believe that there has probably been some political connotation. We had already warned that it was probably a political account. Otherwise, we wouldn't want to put oil on fire right now. The fact is, the Constitutional Court is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u55	All we're talking about right now is the conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u56	Yeah, about the conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u57	Not about content.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u58	I'll get him on the ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u59	The substantive debate is not open.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u60	[[...]] [[It's not understandable, talking to each other.]] I'm basing it. [[...]] We believe that the Constitutional Court did the right thing when it decided to do so. We believe that it is also right for us to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. This seems to me to point out because it is in this Parliament that we have discussed many times whether such decisions should be respected or not. We've found thousands of excuses, and I think the situation is probably so mature now that we won't do it. We will, of course, support such a decision, such a way of approaching this point of the agenda, so we will support it in the social democratic side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Would any of the other MPs want it? [[None.]] Then I will proceed to the vote on the procedural proposal. We vote on the proposed decision. We vote on the proposed decision. I ask for peace and attention in the hall. 51 present, 45 for, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] This is how the proposal was adopted. We're moving on to the next one, 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY - PROPOSED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE OBJECTIVE OF THE ELEMENT 64. Member of the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. There is no colleague of Jelinčič who submitted this proposal for a law. So I'm going to ask if he wants a representative of the Finance Committee. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for the following decision: "The proposal by the Member of the Victory of Jelinčič for the adoption of the compulsory interpretation of Article 64 of the Law on Taxation on the Profit of Legal Persons is rejected." Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are voting on this proposal. 52 present, 43 in, one in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE FINAL ACCOUNT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA'S BUDGET FOR 1998 The draft accounts for 1998 were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. Would you like a representative of the government? The government is coming. [[They don't want a word.]] The proposal for a final account was also addressed by our national assembly committee for budgetary control and other public finances. The president wants a word. Please, Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 10th meeting, on 6 December 2001, the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft final accounts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 1998 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption under Article 97, paragraph 4, of the Public Finance Act. In order to monitor the budget and other public finances, the Commission has not received any report from other working bodies to the final account in accordance with Article 227 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In my introduction to the meeting of the Commission, as chairman, I found that the Government had submitted a final account to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia in its opinion 19.7.1999. However, the Court of Auditors issued a decision on the implementation of the audit on 26.7.1999. The preliminary report was prepared on 17.7.2000 and the report of the first Senate on 16.1.2001, and the report of the second Senate of the Court of Auditors on 27.7.2001. The Court of Auditors therefore took two years from receipt of the final account until the final report. From the content of the report we have summarised two main findings, which are repeated from year to year. In mid-year, the government found that the revenues to the state budget were too small and therefore linearly reduced the funds to all users by 3%. The users then decided on their own which items will achieve this reduction. As early as 1998, the government covered the new employment, wages and other remuneration of the current budget reserve wing, which the Court of Auditors considers to be an irregularity for which the government is responsible. We must also point out that the audit report also provides reviews for 18 budget users who had a total of 96% of the total budget, which means that almost the entire budget has been reviewed by samples, of course. I would also like to mention the most important findings of the audit mentioned in the summary in three areas. Firstly, findings from the audit of the final account. Not all revenue is shown in the budget. The principle of budget integrity has been violated. The outstanding liabilities transferred at the end of the year to the following year, from 1998 to 1999, were transferred by 1.4 billion liabilities. Minor errors in accounting recording and reporting, major irregularities in the auditing of capital investments, irregularities in the external balance sheet recording of the guarantees issued and minor deviations in the amount of the country's debt. Secondly, findings from the revision of expenditure by group of economic purposes. He's crying. Irregularity has been identified in all segments. Material and other costs of irregularities in public procurement. That's what happens. Social transfers, minor shortcomings. Grants from public service payments, no annual programmes, no funding of programmes or projects with which they did not run for tenders, no guarantees of outstanding fees, no extension of the guarantee without a government decision. Subsidies and transfers to the economy, late payments, unintended use of funds. Transfers to municipalities, budget of funds only on 20 January 1999. Payments of financial resources above the possible ceiling. Investments and investment maintenance. There are a lot of irregularities in public procurement. Capital investments. Payments relating to loans in question cannot be considered as capital investments. It's a budget reserve. Errors in the allocation of funds for salaries also to those users who did not need additional funds. Thirdly, the findings of the revised implementation of the financial plans of the budgetary users. The Court of Auditors audited 18 direct budget users and government services as a whole. Two opinions, one on wages and the other on other economic purposes were given to each user. They submitted ten positive and seven opinions with salary reservations; eight positive, eight with reservations and one negative on other economic purposes - negative for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. On the basis of the audit, the Court of Auditors issued the following opinion on the final accounts of the 1998 budget. With regard to the accounts submitted, it is considered that, due to the irregularities identified, it is not possible to confirm that the accounts for 1998 correctly represent the revenue and expenditure of the budget and the indebtedness and repayment of debts, so they give an opinion on the correctness of the accounts with reservation. With regard to the correctness of the completion of the accounts, it is not possible to confirm that the budget has been properly implemented in all important respects and therefore give an opinion with reservation. At the end of the audit report, the Court of Auditors also made some recommendations to the Government. The representative of the Ministry of Finance said that they did not object to the findings of the Court of Auditors, but that this was a period before the reform of public finances, which was particularly intense in 1999. At that time, the Law on Accounting and the Law on Public Finance, which had already regulated some outstanding issues from the past, were adopted. In addition, some of the irregularities that have been repeated in previous years have been resolved. She also pointed out that, for example, 3-4 billion bookkeeping works are carried out at the Ministry of Budget and Accounting. [[...]] [[It's not understandable.]] Every year, 14,000 bills per month, etc., errors can also occur. [[...]] She pointed out that these mistakes were not in such a way as to involve personal exploitation. In this respect, we must also report this to the National Assembly. The debate noted, however, that despite major systemic changes in recent years, it was necessary to establish that some legislation was also in force in 1998 which had to be respected. The members of the Commission drew attention to the late processing of the final accounts and stressed that they should be dealt with as soon as possible. It was also heard that the government does not manage the entire public finances system and therefore the shortcomings are repeated year after year. One member of the Commission felt that such changes should be required from the Government, the establishment of an appropriate regime and communications, so that similar shortcomings would no longer occur. It has also been pointed out that the problem is not a small fault in the bookstore, but the mistakes made by the government and the consequences of political and non-professional decisions. On the basis of all this, the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances has drawn up conclusions which it proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt after the consideration of the draft final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 1998. First: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia accepts the final accounts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 1998. Another time. The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to inform the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances within 30 days of how individual ministries and government as a whole have addressed the irregularities identified in the Court of Auditors' report. Third time. The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take into account the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors, as set out in the 1998 report on the revision of the final budget account, and to inform the Commission on budgetary and other public finances within 30 days of the manner in which the recommendations are taken into account. If the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances receives these replies, it will also address them and report them to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much, President of the Commission. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? I note that my colleague Tanko wishes to do so on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. You have the floor. I'm asking, does any of the other members of the group want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Do Members and Members want a word then? [[They want to.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. It is clear to all Members of the Social Democratic Party that the adoption of both accounts, both for 1998 and 1999, is merely a procedural or even better-spoken protocol procedure that we need to carry out in order to formally complete the exercise of executive power in these two years. We are also aware that the handling of both final accounts will have no special consequences, as the hearing has been delayed for the entire mandate. There will be no consequences for those who have made mistakes and there will be almost no improvement in their work with public finances. The deadline for hearing reports is so far exceeded that it is actually already a true farce. Incomprehensiblely, a great deal of delay has been caused by the two participants in the audit process, both by the government and by the Court of Auditors, and thus a clear attitude towards the public, the citizens and the public finances. Probably everyone was counting on time to be the best doctor and ally and eventually to drown the most protruding irregularities. In particular, it surprises the extremely long procedure before the Court of Auditors, since the audit of the 1998 final budget account carried out an unusually long period. More than two years. And it also falls to the Court of Auditors because of this slowness, part of the co-responsibility for the unregulated state budget, and consequently to the budgets associated with it, and carries a large share of the responsibility for the slow, slow and late resolution of errors in public finances in general. The Court of Auditors also allowed itself an extremely unpleasant move, as it did not attend a meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control. Although I do not know why, such an underestimating relationship between the Court of Auditors and the Commission and the consideration of the final report of the final account is unacceptable. Particularly unacceptable from an institution which has the task of directing the public sector towards excellence with its findings. As I have already mentioned, we do not expect any special shocks because the hearing has completely missed a suitable and meaningful moment. While the legislation that regulated public finances at the time was somewhat more relaxed, it was less precise, but the findings of the Court of Auditors are quite burdensome. There have been significant errors, both in the presentation of data and in the way of spending or the distribution of funds, and there is a great deal of unnecessary need. It is clear that mistakes at work cannot be avoided, that many do not affect or significantly do not affect the exercise or use of resources and that they can be relatively remedied. However, they will be in particular those identified errors that have occurred consciously on the basis of a deliberate decision and not because of the overcrowding or overcrowding of employees. In particular, there is an unreasonable number of such errors or violations in the area of wages and in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. In particular, the implementation of the Public Procurement Act is clearly political decision-making, as it would otherwise not be possible to deploy such funds without programmes, without calls, without contracts and insurance, i.e. only on the basis of the personal decision of employees and officials. This is mainly about the sense of responsibility that they are safe, that nothing can happen to the seed because they have sufficient political coverage to carry out such a way of work that protects an illegal personal decision. As a rule, the findings of the Court of Auditors indicate amounts which, even several times, exceed the limits of the individual provisions of the Public Procurement Act. In particular, non-compliance with or non-implementation of the Public Procurement Act is at stake because, in this way, the investment and other funds of the budget are illegally and otherwise made available to all under the same conditions. This is a very special form of redistribution of resources in the State budget, different from the frameworks and regulations drawn up and, in the opinion of the European Parliament, different implementation of policies as defined and prescribed by the National Assembly in financial and other legislation. These transfers are neither dealt with nor taken into consideration by the Government. It is not aware of them, but it tolerates them and allows them, as they do not normally act against the agents. It is quite inexplicable that there was no detectable government action to prevent or sanction such acts. However, the lack of criticalness and self-criticism of those responsible and violators is also noticeable, so weaknesses are only slowly eliminated. Such acts of authority are not exactly the best example for citizens who expect particularly careful and legitimate conduct from the highest authorities. The found illegalities, irregularities of error far outweigh the mistakes and violations of, say, the mayor of Prasha from Polana. However, the response of the competent authorities and institutions is disproportionate. In the case of errors identified by the Court of Auditors in the revision of individual budget and budget segments as a whole, there has been virtually nothing, there has been no reflective action or replacement of officials. In the case of Polana, however, only on the basis of the presumption, a proposal for a solution was put forward. It is particularly problematic, however, that the public is generally not sufficiently and properly aware of the illegal conduct of the executive branch, because the media are sufficiently tolerant and understanding to cover most of the wrong steps and practices within the coalition and do not always perform their independent and sufficient functions on a supervisory basis. There is no government action, no public and media pressure. The opposition is more or less ignored. Here and there, listen to some lonely bark, but the caravan is happily moving on. It almost doesn't change direction. And we wonder where she'll end her journey. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we will not support this final account in particular because of the great delays and the relationship of the Court of Auditors, as well as the government itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Before I give the word forward, let me say that there are so many applicants that today at 2 p.m. this point will not be closed. Together with the rest of the untreated, the decision is expected to move it to the next meeting, which begins on Tuesday. So I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues who aren't in the hall right now to come to the hall. At 2 p.m. at the latest, we will vote on this procedural decision. Until then, of course, the debate continues. Please, who wanted a word? On behalf of the delegation? Please. Kolega Drobnič on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. As it is said, at 2 p.m. the National Assembly will adopt a procedural decision to conclude this meeting, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and move the points to the next one, so I ask my colleagues and colleagues to be in the Chamber at 2 p.m. Now he has the word of his colleague Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The government's well-happened representatives. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The final account for 1998 is ahead of us, even though the year is long behind us. It is true that it is necessary to obtain the opinion of the Court of Auditors in order to deal with this final account, but all these delays are incomprehensiblely long. That is why, of course, we are asking in the parliamentary group what will be the effect or effect of adopting this report. It is certain that the credibility and legality of the operation of the government concerned shall be determined in order to fulfil the obligation, the constitutional obligation of the State assembly to implement the budget. However, this would be particularly true for the electorate, so that, with what the government has done, they can decide whether there is still a need for such a government or such a coalition to be trusted. Of course, if voters knew what had happened to this budget, they might have made a different decision. The findings of the report made by the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance do not make any sense to repeat. This is a huge number of detected, notoriously detected infringements, and of course we are just wondering which of these will be remedied. It is problematic in this budget that, or in the report, the indications are not accurate, that there is no indication of which legal person or who has committed this. By all means, recovery of such a problem would require this, and such a report should be supplemented. At the time of the adoption of the amendments to the 2002 and 2003 budget, we have made it clear that such a way is only a kind of pleasing ritual, as the government then passes through Parliament to redistribute public funds to a much greater extent than Members in the state budget with amendments. Let's look at the findings. The redeployments made by the government in 1998 amount to 39 billion, representing 4.5% of the total budget at the time of the adoption of the budget of 871 billion. We have invested 19.6 billion in the 2001 supplementary budget, which is significantly lower. This means only 1.6% of the budget. For 2002, a total of 24 billion tolars, or 1.8, of the total budget. These figures show that the government is redistributing significantly more resources, as is the sum of all amendments submitted by qualified candidates - Members. However, the difference would be even greater if only the amendments adopted were taken into account. We can therefore wonder what the purpose of accepting amendments is, if the government goes, executive power, over everything, and as we see from the report, in an illegal way. When Minister Rop mentioned that we need additional financial stabilisers or a better said free hand in redistributing the budget, at least 15 billion dollars, we told him that under the existing rules he has significantly more free hands and an even more extensive financial stabiliser than he requires. We are wondering about the purpose of such an arrangement and where is the capacity here as much as detailed government planning. This could also be arranged differently so that these budget lines are less fragmented. However, the government itself proposed such a system, which was then adopted. It is unacceptable for the executive to change legislative decisions in an area of exceptional importance for the country. This document is therefore unworthy. There is no indication of an attack by the Executive on an approved budget with a hidden deficit, which the new authority, in a new session, has drawn to the same budget deficit plan under the heading of the 2002 countervailing deficit. According to this logic, an ordinary citizen wonders what the government will, say, attract for 2004 a day, what it was hiding, for example, in 2001 and 2002. You've lost credibility with such acts. People forgive mistakes, but certainly not intentional actions, concealing the truth, and illegal procedures. The report does not contain the amounts of irregularities identified, nor does the undisputed operation of legal or natural persons with a budgetary consumer, with the government hiding itself with an excuse to show legal benefit, which is legally unresistible. We wonder why the government rejects the requirement to transmit the final records of the budget and other public finances control service, the Ministry of Finance and the amount and names of the persons involved in the irregularities identified. In view of the above, the 1998 closure account will not be supported. This also means distrust of the government, unfortunately for a government that is no longer there. There are, however, some of the same persons who are also now taking the same path. I'm sorry, wrong. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the conclusions of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. We also demand that the government explain all the irregularities and report them to the National Assembly. At the same time, of course, we also demand that all violations be determined precisely and that crimes and crimes be punished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I propose to the assembly that we now terminate this item of the agenda and that we also conclude this extraordinary meeting with a procedural proposal and transfer the unfinished items of the agenda to the next meeting. I ask everyone in the lobby to come to the hall so that we can decide. Excuse me? My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would very much like to ask because the proposal for a national programme of higher education of the Republic of Slovenia has been submitted for the third time from the meeting, so that, out of respect for your people, you, as chairman, will propose this item as the second item in the agenda of the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u69	It is always so that we have the meetings transferred at the beginning of the meeting of the National Assembly. This is a rule that protects the National Assembly from changing priorities from month to month. That's how it's gonna be in this deal. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We will then vote, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to postpone on 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, and 25 to the 13th regular meeting, which will begin on Tuesday 19 January. Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u70	I just have a procedural question. Look, given that we're grading these points and this one, specifically, is also in the third reading, I'm interested in how the business deadlines for making amendments are, because they've already expired. If we postpone this today for the next week, we can no longer, since it is a regular meeting, we cannot somehow cover the deadlines for making amendments. So I'm interested in explaining whether we can table amendments or we can't invest. It seems to me that this is not entirely normal on the part of any new amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-15-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u71	The college will decide on Tuesday, but today we are, as you know, mag. Visjak, we are already discussing at the consultation today whether we will strictly stick to the fact that when the meeting is suspended and agenda items are moved, they will no longer be open to amendments or not. I am among those who advocate a strict approach, that this is not possible. On Tuesday, however, the colleges will also formally decide on this. I ask, do the parliamentary groups want a word on this procedural proposal? If not, we will move to a vote on the proposed decision. We're voting! We vote on the proposal for a decision!52 present. 44 for, 4 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I note that we have concluded this decision with an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and that we will meet again on Tuesday at the 13th regular meeting, beginning at 2 p.m. Until then, I wish everyone a pleasant weekend. Thank you very much.
