ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members! Good morning. Good morning, everyone. If we don't be nice to each other, who's gonna be with us? I'd like to begin the 21st extraordinary session. Today, too, some of our colleagues and colleagues are rightly absent, slightly less than yesterday. To list them: colleagues of Peterle, Janša, Dr. Brace, Rupar, Sušnik, colleague of Zalokar Orazem, colleagues of Zamernik, mag. Vizjak, Germich. At the beginning of the session, colleagues Kontić, Mamić, Ašič and Kangler will be missing, I see a colleague Vice-President among us, colleague Gračner, Battelli and colleague Diaci. Among us, I also welcome representatives of the government. I wish everyone a happy day. First, we will determine the presence in the Chamber and then we will decide on the Article as a whole. This is an amendment to Article 10, which is on the 2nd item of the agenda in a proposal sent by the Government and signed by the Secretary-General of Bandelj. Right now, at least I don't think there's enough coworkers and colleagues yet, and it's already five minutes past ten. Once again, I invite all my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the hall. According to the cards filed, we are enough in the hall to begin and continue the extraordinary session. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" key. 46 present. There are so many of us in the hall. We are under Article 10 of the PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH SERVICE LAW, 2. It's a day's work. Does anyone else want a word with him? [[No, no, ……]] Then I'll put him to the vote. I noticed that my colleague Partljič had a phone call, so now we're only 45 in the hall. Before that, we had a very conscientious vote, inviting everyone from the lobby to come to the hall. There's not enough of us in the hall right now. Please take your seats. We will decide on Article 10 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act in its entirety. We're voting. 46 in attendance, 39 in and 3 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the text of Article 10 has been voted on. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are now moving on to a debate and decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. We're making a decision. Please vote. 46 in attendance, 39 in and 3 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I find that this is how we have adopted those articles that have not been tabled by amendments. That way we can go to a debate on the title of the law. Nobody wants a word. We will vote on the title of the law. We're voting. We vote on the title of the law. 49 present, 40 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I take it we've adopted the title of the law. This allows us to move on to the third consideration of the bill. I find open articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. Do qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to any of these articles? I guess not. Then I ask the secretariat if we have a problem with coordination. [[We don't.]] This allows us to move to a full vote on the law. Before that, anyone wants a word to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] Then we will vote on the law as a whole. We're voting. We are voting on the law as a whole. 49 present, 41 voted in favour of the law, 7 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medicinal Products and Medical Devices Act. This law will be dealt with in the short term. The proposal was tabled by the government and the government's representative, Dr. Keber, the Minister of Health wants to inform the National Assembly of the reasons. You have the floor, but the rest of you don't. Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u2	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In this case, it is indeed a small change that is dictated by adaptation to the European Union. The existing drug law is stricter in a profession dealing with the sale or manufacture of medicinal products, besides the Faculty of Pharmacy, and requires specialisation in this field in the same university, while in Europe this second part is easier to manage - this additional education can also be obtained through appropriate practice in legal persons involved in the transport of medicinal products. In the present law, therefore, we are simply expanding in addition to existing education, which is still an option, there is still an option, specialisation in college, adding opportunities for education in practice, in short, with other types of training. Because of this, as you can see, we have only had to amend two articles of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the competent committee. The Chairman of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons will present a report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! As already mentioned in the recital, this is a short marriage, and the mother's working body has not been particularly concerned with the law. However, it was discussed at the 13th extraordinary session. There was also no argument in the debate that would lead to the amendment of the law, so we agreed both with the procedure envisaged for the adoption of this law, which is a reduced procedure, as with the law as a whole. And we also propose to the assembly to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič, chairman of the committee. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is my invitation if they wish to speak to the national assembly of representatives of the groups of Members. I don't see any desire for a group of Members. Is that what Members and Members want? No.) I conclude the general debate. We're in second gear. No amendments have been tabled. The law has three articles. I propose that we vote on everyone and then we fully adopt the law. I'm putting Article 1 into the debate. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then I will put Article 1 to the vote. We are voting on Article 1 of the bill. I'll call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby again. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come from the lobby or from the offices to the National Assembly. I'll wait another bad minute, then I'll put it to the vote. Please. Secondly, I will put to the vote the draft text of Article 1 of the bill. We're voting. Colleagues and colleagues, let's vote! The text of Article 1 is adopted. Of the 48 present, 47 supported this proposal, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. We will now vote on the text of Article 2 of the bill. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the text of Article 2 of the bill. 47 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of Article 2 is adopted. I give the text of Article 3 to the debate. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put to the vote the text of Article 3. We're voting. We're voting. 49 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of Article 3 is also adopted. Who wants to discuss the title of the bill? I'm putting the title of the law to a vote. We're voting. We're voting on the title of the law! 50 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've adopted the title of the law. We're in the third reading of the bill. We voted by article and address. Who wants to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. We are voting on the bill as a whole. 49 present. All in favor. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister for his participation in the meeting. I now invite government representatives to the Chamber to take part in the examination and adoption of the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Employment Act for example of unemployment, which is under agenda item 4 of the agenda. For a moment, we will wait for the representatives of the government who put the bill into the procedure. If there are no government representatives, I will understand that they do not want an introduction and I will call on the Chairman of the Health Committee to report on the bill. I won't wait long, just another half minute. If there is no government representative, we will follow the order of the word. Government officials? Please. Would you like a word of introduction? Please, you have a speaking room at your disposal to justify the bill. Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u6	Thank you. Dear Members and honourable Members! The national programme for the adoption of the acquis of the European Union by the end of 2002 provides for the amendment of this law, which lays down the conditions for the exercise of the free movement of persons until the end of the entry into the European Union. Within all Member States, it is necessary to allow the free movement of workers for all citizens of the Member States, which is already possible in the current Member States. The law in Article 4c of the proposed solutions proposes the application of the so-called free movement of persons or workers. Article 15 provides that this right shall be exercised from the date of full membership, but on the basis of the principle of reciprocity. The law itself is also supplemented by articles necessary to comply with Article 38 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on the protection of personal data and the law on the protection of personal data. Without them, the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia has no adequate constitutional or legal basis for keeping records containing personal data. The cited Article of the Constitution prohibits the use of personal data contrary to the purpose of their collection and provides that the collection, processing, purpose and use, control and protection of the confidentiality of personal data shall be governed by law. The purpose of the proposed provisions is therefore to regulate the protection of personal data. The less demanding and editorial amendments to this law, however, constitute compliance with the Parental Protection Act, which entered into force on 1st of this year, and family benefits, compliance with the Employment and Work Act and the modernisation of the term 'activities of special social importance', which is now becoming 'activities in the public interest'. Dear Members and Members! The proposed law is proposed by the Government for a reduced procedure, for the reasons I have already mentioned, because the law is due to enter into force this year, of course with transitional provisions as set out in Article 15. At the same time, I would like to point out that the government does not oppose the amendments proposed by the Social Committee in its work in Parliament. The law itself, as presented, is proposed to be implemented and, however, to be drafted by law no later than 6 months after the law has been enacted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. The draft law was examined by the Health Committee. The Chairman of the Committee, colleague Brenčič, will present the report. Please, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well, the mother's working body was discussed at the 21st regular meeting of 6.6 this year. I would not repeat the content that the members and members of the Committee have become acquainted with by the proposer and has just been given. I will stop briefly in the opinion of the secretariat, which we have become acquainted with. In this opinion, the Secretariat notes that the draft law contains all the business elements and that the proposed amendments and additions from a legal point of view are less difficult and can therefore be dealt with in a reduced procedure. This framework does not, however, include the harmonisation of the law with the Constitutional Court’s decision, since these amendments constitute an independent reason for the reduced procedure. The Secretariat has drawn up specific comments on Article 10, namely Articles 68b and 68c of the draft law. In the final edition, however, certain nomotechnical improvements will be made which can be made in the secretariat domain. The members of the Committee also took note of the written opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia and, on the basis of this, also identified a positive approach to the reduced procedure. The discussion focused mainly on the way in which the data covered by the records were collected, the amount of data collected and the consistency of the records with the Personal Data Protection Act. The members of the Committee were particularly interested in why the register of unemployed persons should also contain information on the number of the savings book or the current account or the transaction account. The question was also raised as to what is the record of the unemployed person’s health status, since the medical records of the individual contain completely intimate information, which are confidential in nature. The members of the Committee also pointed out that it would make sense in the proposal for a law, in the work setting out the conditions for the height of the Republic grant and the loans for scholarships, in addition to those criteria, to add the direction of education. In recent years, there has been a presence of the fact that certain study directions are becoming extremely deficient for individual environments. With regard to the record, which also contains the number of the keeping book, the Ministry’s representative stressed that this information serves primarily to direct a transfer from the institution to the financial account of the person, but that it is not possible to look into the financial situation in the account. In accordance with the discussion led by the members and members of the committee with the proposer, and on the basis of the basic findings to Article 10 of the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, the Committee has drafted amendments to Articles 7, 9, 10 and 12. After the discussion had been concluded, the Committee also proposed that a decision should be taken by the honourable State Council to consider and adopt the bill together with the Committee's amendments following a reduced procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u9	Thank you, chairman of the committee, colleague Brenčič. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Comrade Tsukati, please have the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The three main points follow this amendment, namely the Amsterdam Treaty on the Prohibition of Discrimination on the basis of the criteria of nationality between workers of Member States regarding access to employment. We believe that such a change is not controversial because it is in line with the principles on which the European Union is founded. The second was the reimbursement of funds paid as scholarships. We believe that it is certainly necessary to take into account provisions, constitutional, legislative and similar matters. The third part of this novel is somewhat more controversial, by transferring the responsibility of keeping extensive records containing personal data to the institution. I believe that, with our legislation, not only with this novelty, but also with very frivolous intervention in this area, and I would say, with a second swing, we delete or somehow cancel the provisions enshrined in the Data Protection Act and similar things. However, here the Committee has drafted amendments, which of course we support. The Committee's amendments, therefore, which support the scholarship of deficit study courses, the restrictions on personal data, the active search for employment at the applied persons' office, of course, our Group fully supports. However, it remains questionable for us to collect personal data, namely their consistency with the possible banking and other health regulations and the Personal Data Protection Act, or compliance with the intent of this Act. However, the law itself, the novelty itself cannot fully define this relationship, this will be demonstrated by practice. We hope that there will be no abuse or abuse of these great rights that this novel gives them regarding the collection and processing of personal data.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. Any of the other members of the group would like to make a statement of their views? No, no, no. Then I call now to the word of the Members and Members, if they so wish. [[No, no, ……]] Okay. Then I conclude the general debate. Please take a look at the amendments tabled to the bill you received on the 9th of this month, this is a document on one side or two. It shall have amendments which are tabled under Articles 7, 9, 10 and 12. First of all, I will propose to the assembly, in accordance with Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, that after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. If a third of those present do not object, such a procedural proposal will be adopted. I'm putting him to the vote. We are voting on a procedural proposal. 48 in attendance, 47 in, no in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] This proposal is adopted. Thus, we can now turn to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. First, I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Health Committee to Article 7. No one wants to discuss it. Then I put the amendment to the vote. We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 7. 47 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the whole article. 46 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The Article has been adopted. The Health Committee proposes to amend Article 9. Anybody want a word? We vote on the amendment of the amendment to the Article Amendment Committee. 48 in attendance, 43 in and 1 in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of the Article has been adopted. In Article 10, the Committee shall submit two amendments under order Nos. 1 and 2. My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. So I only want one warning for the first amendment to Article 10. In fact, several times in this National Assembly, I am glad that the Committee has accepted the amendment, because - and I would like to stress this - we will face similar questions. And so far there has been no sense of understanding about this problem. In support of the amendment, I would like to explain what health data are. The Health Care Databases Act, these are health data. They were adopted in a marriage two years ago. And the list of these data is listed on 33 pages of small print, 33 pages. These are medical records of one patient. Only in the case of a record of the treatment of drug users will I read only part of the data collected in the medical records. That is, the record of treatment of drug users - these are many among the unemployed - includes, among other things, age in the first use of any drug, main drug, method of introduction, use frequency, age at first use, duration of regular use, additional drugs, risk behaviour, now injecting, whenever injected, already had sexual relations, sexual orientation, permanent sexual partner, number of sexual partners in the last year, used condom in the last sexual relationship, already had, in addition to a permanent partner, another sexual partner, ever offering sexual services, HIV infection status, hepatitis, hepatitis vaccine, initiation of treatment, possible psychiatric diagnosis, police treatment, prosecution, imprisonment, measures taken, samples taken and results of analysis, notes, post-release status. This is only part of the health data collected in the record of the treatment of drug users. That's health information. And, of course, after the original dictatorship, the socialist could demand all this data. All this information. And so on all 33 pages of small print, respected. For this reason, I ask that whenever we talk about the rights and enforce the right of an institution to health data, including insurance companies press into this area at any time, be aware that this is a very sensitive area for patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u13	Anyone else want a word? We're with the amendments to Article 10. Please, Comrade Petty Officer. You can rule out, mate Tuck so my colleague Petty Officer can get a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I wish a good day to colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government. On the issue of data, Mr Cukjat pointed out the traps in which we can be caught, in particular, in the area of identifying or recording and transmitting data of an intimate nature, particularly in the field of health. I believe that this provision, then in the following articles, which change in the old law, is the subject of this article of the same law of amendments as to who collects the data. The article just says you're exchanging information. Who's gonna run the base? In particular, such sensitive information should make this clear. And who is everyone at your disposal? Well, then the question is, who's going to be collecting, who's going to be mediating, who's going to be responsible for this source code, because that means the responsibility of the state. And who did this? You know that data are now being collected after new ones in administrative units, banks, social work centres, employment institutions, health care institutions, pension and disability insurance are becoming different bases and this is now traveling among themselves. I expected the government to come up with one more complex and comprehensive solution proposal for you in the database. It is likely that the very implementation of this will cause problems for public services, not only for those who will be subject to the processing of this data. I agree, however, that instead of health data, which are extremely broad and deep, they interfere with the human body and soul to replace it with a more appropriate concept, which we have once had, but it was simply enough for all treatments, including those, vocational rehabilitation and preparation for employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u15	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like one, Madam Secretary of State? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u16	Thank you. I would just like to emphasise further that the data contained in these records are already being collected here in this law, I will say, we are regulating the legal basis for regulating everything that is already being collected through the employment office. The responsibility of the institution is very clear for its acts. And, of course, since the Personal Data Protection Act has taken place in the meantime, we have also arranged in an appropriate manner, I will say a clear overview of all the data that the Employment Office is competent to collect, while, of course, all the other data will not be subject to these records or any checks that are at the Institute. And also the question of employability I absolutely support this more clearly, as the existing Employment Act itself makes it very clear that only data that really defines the dissuasiveness of persons is used and is not in any way all of this information that Dr. Cukjat has identified somewhere. By essentially regulating this situation, which was already in place before the implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u17	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Okay. Then the National Assembly may decide, first of all, to propose an amendment to the Committee under order number 1. I put this proposal to the vote. We are in the middle of the vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 10. The proposal received support. Of the 50 present there are 48 for. [[The vote was 48.]] We have an amendment under order number two. We're voting. 47 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment under order number 2 has also been adopted. Thus, we can now vote on the text of Article 10 as amended. We're voting. We vote on the text of Article 10 in its entirety. 49 present, 43 for, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have adopted the text of Article 10. This leaves us with the amendment of the Committee to Article 12, which proposes to amend it. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I shall put the proposal to the vote, the amendment under order number 1 on page 2 of the review to Article 12. Once again, we will have to decide on the text of Article 12 or the amendment of the Committee. I'm asking my colleagues and a colleague from the lobby to come to the hall, and everyone else who's in the hall for a little attention. Once again, we vote on the text of Article 12 or the amendment under order number 1 tabled by the Health Committee. Please. 47 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that this is also how we have defined the text of Article 12. We will now decide on all the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. Does anyone want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 53 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. Anyone want a word on the bill's title? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the title of the law to a vote. We've accepted the title. 47 present, 44 for and none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] Articles 7, 9, 10 and 12 are articles to which amendments may be tabled. Do qualified applicants want to do this? [[No, no, ……]] Then in the third reading, we'll ask the secretariat if there's been any disagreement? [[It didn't come.]] That is why we will now make a full decision on the law. We are moving on to a decision on the law amending and supplementing the law on employment and unemployment insurance in its entirety. We're voting. We are voting on the law as a whole. 52 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The proposed law is fully adopted. This concludes item 4 of the agenda. I am moving on to the next one, where I also invite the government to join us as soon as possible so that I can introduce myself as a proponent of the Law on Amendments to Agricultural Lands Act, 5. It's a day's work. The government put him in the procedure after a reduced procedure, so decided by the National Assembly. I'll wait for a representative of the government in a moment. Otherwise, we have the chairman of the committee responsible, and I'll give him my word. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Kramberger. My friend Kramberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food addressed the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands. This is a law that the government has introduced into the state-level assembly procedure by means of a reduced procedure. It is exclusively about the changes imposed by European Union legislation. The Committee has examined and adopted one amendment on a proposal from the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. In fact, it is possible to say that this is an editorial amendment and that the Committee has also adopted and has also adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly that the proposed law, together with the amendment adopted by the Committee, should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Kramberger for the committee report. He wants to keep his word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? If not, I'm opening a general debate. Mr. Secretary of State would like to add some clarifications to the government? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the general debate. This is a bill with three articles. There's an amendment to the first one, that's an amendment to the committee, and I'm giving it first, sorry, just a moment, that's all right. First of all, I am putting into consideration Article 1 and the amendment tabled by the Committee. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I will put to the vote first the amendment of the Committee to Article 1. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 1. I will put once again to the vote the amendment of the Committee to Article 1. We're voting. Can we vote? Please. We vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 1. 50 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 1 has been adopted. This also amends the article. I'm moving on to Article 2. I'm moving on to decision on Article 2. We're voting. We vote on Article 2. 50 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. Anybody want a word on Article 3? [[Nobody.]] I'm moving on to a decision on Article 3. We're voting. We vote on Article 3. 50 in attendance, 43 in, no in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Anybody want a word on the title of the law? [[Nobody.]] I'm moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We vote on the title of the law. 50 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand the address has been accepted. In the third reading, I ask whether qualified investors wish to table an amendment to Article 1 which is open. [[No, no, ……]] Then I'll ask if we have a problem with coordination. [[No, no, ……]] That is why we can move on to full decision-making. Does anyone want a word about the text of the bill? Then we move on to a decision on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands in its entirety. We're voting. We are voting on the text of the law as a whole. 52 present, 48 for, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. We have an additional decision tabled by the Committee, which reads: "The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit to the National Assembly by October 2002 an amendment to the Law on Agricultural Lands in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision." Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm moving on to a decision on an additional decision. We're voting. We vote on an additional decision. 50 in attendance, 47 in, no in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have adopted an additional decision proposed by the Committee. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for participating at this point. I welcome the government representatives at 6. Agenda items – Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests. This bill will also be dealt with in the short term. The bill has been tabled by the government and I ask the representative of the government whether he wants a word. [[He does.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u20	Dear Members and honourable Members! You have before you a proposal to amend or supplement the forest law, a reduced procedure. With amendments to the law, we want to pursue the following objectives: to harmonise the forest law with the European Association Agreement; to harmonise the co-financing of forestry measures with the rules of the European Union, allowing for the acquisition of funds from the Structural Funds of the European Union for forestry to the full extent possible; to harmonise the law with the Constitutional Court decision of 29.1.1998 concerning the participation of workers of the Slovenian Forestry Institute in the management of the institution; and to ensure the neutral representation of the public interest of workers in this institution; to harmonise the forest law with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Directive of the European Union 46/95; to ensure the harmonisation of the law with the law on offences and to harmonise the law with the law on conservation of nature. We believe that these conditions or proposals that we have put forward correspond to the reduced procedure, that the law has a European priority, and that is why we also propose that you adopt them in a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u21	We have already taken this decision, Secretary of State of Sterling, and thank you very much for your introduction. Does the chairman of the committee, colleague Kramberger, want a word? [[He does.]] Please, the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests. He adopted a decision or agreed to the adoption of the law by means of a reduced procedure. We've also received two amendments. Finally, we have also come to the conclusion that we should propose to the National Assembly that this amendment should also be adopted, together with the proposal for a law. I must also say that the representative of the agricultural chamber present at the meeting expressed dissatisfaction with the proposed law. In fact, the agri-agricultural chamber notes that the law is not in line with the law on the agri-agricultural chamber. So this was at the meeting, and otherwise we propose, as it is said, that the National Assembly adopts the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much to the chairman of the committee, colleague Kramberger. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] I invite representatives of the groups of Members, if they so wish. Do Members and Members want the word? I find that no, so I am concluding the general debate. First of all, I will propose to the assembly a procedural proposal to decide, after the end of the discussion, on all those articles to which no amendments have been tabled. As you know, this proposal will not be adopted if one third of those present in the Chamber oppose it. We're on the verge of being present right now. So I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to join us. We will vote first on procedural proposals. Then we move on to a decision on the amendments. I will now put this procedural proposal to the vote. We're on the verge of being present. Could you please all take part in the decision on the procedural proposal? We're voting on him. Please. I'll wait a minute for the second decision, then find out if we can continue the meeting. I respectfully ask all colleagues and colleagues to come to the National Assembly to help decide with their presence. In fact, those of us who are now in the Chamber are involved in decision-making, we have no problem with how this is and is happening there. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, I will secondly put to the vote a procedural proposal. Secondly, I am putting to the vote a procedural proposal. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There's nothing left but a 10-minute break. It's 10:59 p.m., 11:00 and 10 minutes, and we're going to be able to determine for the third time. Until then, I ask everyone to come to the hall and help make decisions. Now there were only 45 of us in the hall, so we couldn't make any decisions. Please. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u24	We continue to decide on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests. I would like to remind you that we are deciding on a procedural proposal. In accordance with Article 189, we would vote on the articles to which the amendments have not been tabled at the same time. This Decision will not be adopted if at least one third of those present oppose it. I will put this procedural proposal to the vote for the third time. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on a procedural proposal. 56 present, 48 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We have the amendments of the committee that you have on page 3 of the report to the draft law that the competent committee has given to the National Assembly. First, we have Article 1. Who wants to discuss the amendment to Article 1? Please note that there will be no errors in the admission procedure. For everyone's attention, including the attention of the government. Please! We have an amendment to Article 1. No one wants a word, so I will put it to the vote. We vote on the amendment to Article 1. Now there are many of us in the hall, so that there could be no complications. I will once again put, colleagues and colleagues, in the decision-making of the amendment to Article 1. We'll vote next time. We're voting. The amendment was accepted. Of 58, 50 voted in favour and 1 in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now we are voting on the whole article. Let's vote on the whole article! Once again, I must point out that there are some consultations between the Members and Members of the Chamber that we are in the middle of a vote. For the first time, we weren't concluding. There's enough of us in the hall. Please, can you now vote on Article 1 in full? Please, we are voting on the whole article. We're in the middle of a vote. 60 in attendance, 53 in and 1 in. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 5. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] I shall put the amendment to Article 5 to the vote. We vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 5. Peace in the hall? Secondly, I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Committee by Article 5. We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 5. May I have your attention, please? 59 present, 50 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now we can vote on the whole article. We are voting on the whole article. 56 present, 50 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. You have two amendments on your hands, which are being tabled by a group of Members with the first signed Lidija Majnik. Colleague Majnik's amendment to Articles 10 and 23. I first open the debate on Article 10 and its proposal to delete it. If the amendment is not adopted, the second amendment is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] May I have your attention, please? Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I would like the representatives of the Government to respond and give their views. It goes so fast, they just can't get to the word. That's why I would ask you to wait for them and tell them because now we've got this on the table so we can make up our minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u26	I assure you that I always ask if anyone wants a word, and I give them enough time to make a decision. Does the government want a word? Yeah, to the 10th? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. So, once again, I would like to stress what I have already said on the committee, namely to the parent body, that the financing of such associations of owners in the European Union is normal and traditional. We have these examples of funding for such associations in neighbouring Austria and in Bavaria, Germany. For this reason, I propose that we also allow this possibility in our law. Currently, our law does not allow these measures to be financed. We believe, however, that we should allow the possibility that these measures should also be co-financed under our legislation. Once again, I would like to point out that this is not a matter of permanent funding, but rather of funding based on the programmes developed by the associations and the government or the budget contributing to its share. I would like to point out that this is particularly important for our extremely fragmented forest estate, because it is the only way to achieve the appropriate positive effects in pooling, financing and investment in forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u28	Mr. Secretary of State, does the government therefore object? [[He's going to argue.]] Please, colleague Majnik!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I have tabled this amendment because it does not limit the application to individual projects and the implementation of projects in the field of forestry and forestry activities. I am making the amendments for a reason which is also stated, namely that we, in addition to transferring some models from the European Union, also have our own, which the European Union does not know. I think it is very controversial that an association that can be established by contract or law is financed by the state budget. That is why I am opposed to this, and that is why I have tabled an amendment. In the case of projects, however, associations can be set up and competed through associations that we already have in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u30	Comrade Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much! I understood the Government's proposal in the opposite direction, that by adding in Article 48 of the existing law that forest owners' associations could obtain certain funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the government would accelerate the formation of such associations. Then the government added a security guard. It proposes that funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia can only be provided in connection with the European Union's Structural Funds. This means that if the European Union does not allocate these funds from its Structural Funds, then these associations also do not burden the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. However, if the European Union allocates certain funds for these purposes, it would be a shame, of course, that we apriori are already giving them up in advance. This amendment would in fact mean that our forest owners associations could not obtain the funds of the European Union's Structural Funds. That would be a shame, according to our estimate. That's why we just can't support this amendment. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u32	Someone else wants a word! Please, fellow Kramberger!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. We have also addressed this issue on the Committee on Agriculture, and we have rejected the proposal of colleague Lydia Majnikov. We didn't accept this amendment. I think that the government's proposal and also the debate that Slavko Sok had on the ground, namely, this is the possibility that these associations - as far as they are concerned - can benefit from the funds allocated to it by the European Union. I think that there is nothing wrong with us if we accept it and if it remains in the law that the government has proposed, it is said that we do not accept this amendment, which is proposed by colleague Lydia Majnikov and her group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u34	Anyone else want a word? Please, Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I, too, believe that the amendment of colleague Lydia Majnik is unacceptable, incomprehensible and that it is going in this direction that the polypheudal structures in the area of forest management should retain the advantage. The amendment is a rigorously rigid proposal that preserves certain structures of privilege. I don't think the National Assembly is going to be so reckless as to support something like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u36	Order! Anyone else want a word? My friend Majnikov's!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u37	I'd like to tell my colleague Jerovsk to read and know what he's talking about. We're talking 60 million tolars. Of this, 50 million tolars are intended for forest activities and the promotion of forest product plasma, and 10 million are intended for the operation of forestry associations, which can be "innumerable". I object to the functioning of associations that are as societies. However, I do not object to the fact that foresters can compete through associations after the Act of Accession and will also compete. But through the associations we've set up. These are the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. In addition, we have agricultural cooperatives that are not known in Europe anymore. If we take over the legal order of Europe, then we must take over everything or adjust our established associations to the legal order of Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u38	Comrade Jerovšek, you have a replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The Government explained that this is in line with the legal order and that it is not contrary to the acquis of the European Union. I'm asking my colleague Majnik not to teach me about money. There's no talk of money in this marriage. But I think I know at least as much about forestry as my colleague Majnikov. It is a matter of maintaining certain privileges and it feels extremely subtle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u40	Thank you. Order! My friend Majnikov's!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u41	I have to answer that. Mr Jerovšek, an integral part of the law is also the introduction to the law. The last paragraph states that it is 60 million tolars: 10 million SITs to support the integration of forest owners and 50 million SITs to co-finance investments and to improve the conditions for the acquisition and marketing of forest products. It's an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u42	Comrade Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u43	I don't know what we're really talking about right now, because combining forest owners is something positive. I think that's what we should want. These are trends that the European Union is familiar with. I don't know if I understood Mrs Majnik correctly - that the cooperative is not in Western Europe - I probably misunderstood that. So there we know a lot of cooperatives and a lot of associations. These cooperatives are huge. The State rewards them by taxing them and otherwise stimulating them. It's the other way around. We know what the socialist partnership was like. I see that this proposal is actually in this direction that these associations are forming. Because then the needs are very great. If the money is written there in an explanation that SIT 10 million is allocated, this is the explanation that must be followed by the budget. What about the budget, we know. The last sentence proposed by the government says, "The funds for these purposes can only be used in connection with the funds from the European Union Structural Funds". That tells me everything. Thus, if the European Union makes certain funds available to these associations, then the State of Slovenia must also parise. However, if we do not make any funds available for this purpose, then we give up the funds allocated to this purpose by the European Union. I must say that here, Mrs Majnikov, the government is more convincing with its arguments than you are with your suggestion that this matter be simply deleted. I can't vote for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u44	Does anyone else want to participate in the discussion on the amendment of Majnik's colleague to Article 10? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We will therefore decide on the proposal to delete Article 10. We're voting! We vote on the proposal to delete Article 10. 60 in attendance, 34 in, 20 in. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it that the amendment to delete the article has been adopted. Article 23 is also subject to the proposal of the Majnik amendment, which is to delete this article as well. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. The amendment that paragraph 23 should be deleted shall be put to the vote. We vote on the proposal to delete Article 23. 58 present, 35, 19 versus. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposal to delete Article 23 has been adopted. By 11 and 15 we have the amendments tabled by colleague Weber. You got them on the bench. They're connected. Anybody want to talk about them? Comrade Webber!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. With these amendments, I would like to address the problem that has somehow arisen at a time when the intentional use of the forest road maintenance fee has been lost by the law on the financing of municipalities, which gives municipalities autonomy in the allocation of their own revenues. The fee for maintenance of forest roads is one such revenue, with which the municipality, of course, fulfils this legal obligation in accordance with the budget adopted. In practice, problems arise because forestry expects to acquire these funds in full. The negotiations between the Institute for Forests, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the municipalities on how to deal with this problem through the conclusion of contracts stop all of this. Usually this matter is resolved so that the ministry will say conditionality, or perhaps even sometimes even extorts the municipality from a fee to maintain forest roads entirely, provided that its co-financing share is also contributed by the Ministry at an appropriate level. As long as the fee is not provided in the election, the ministry says: “We will give less or nothing to maintain the forest roads.” Therefore, during the last period we have noted extremely serious problems in maintaining forest roads. The calculations also suggest that other investments should be significantly higher than they are today if they are to be adequately maintained. The amendments to Articles 11 and 15 solve this problem by making the fee a compensation. The third amendment to Article 11 provides that compensation for maintenance of forest roads shall not be taken into account in the calculation of the municipality’s own revenue. This would seek to ensure the deliberate use of compensation for forest roads. This compensation may be paid in full for forest roads. The problem is also solved in the co-financing of the Ministry of Agriculture. Finally, revenue to municipalities receiving financial compensation is slightly increased, as this difference, in the amount of compensation for the maintenance of forest roads, is later replaced from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia through the financial compensation of the pressure municipalities receiving this compensation. I suggest you support these amendments. However, if the amendments to Article 11 were not adopted, it would be necessary to adopt at least an amendment to Article 15, which speaks of the desirability of the forest inspector being removed when verifying the intended use of funds, provided that the latter remains as a forest road maintenance fee. For this is the municipality’s own income, and the State Forestry Inspectorate has no authority to oversee the use of its own revenue. As long as the amendments to Article 11 are adopted, this competence remains. In addition, inspectors will be able to use or monitor the use of compensation later. There is no need to extend the competence of forest inspectors to compensation. I suggest these amendments support each other. By doing so, let us resolve the maintenance of forest roads and, finally, control over the use of these resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Comrade Webber! I'm warning the National Assembly that this is a related amendment. If the 1st is adopted, we'll make a decision. If the 1st is rejected, we'll stop the decision. Anyone else want a word? Please, Secretary of State, Mr. Sterling!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Therefore, according to all the existing terminology used, the fee is considered to be a more appropriate term than the term of compensation. This Article also has certain financial implications. We have written in explanation of the law that the proposed law will not increase the expenditure of the budget compared to the obligations arising from the implementation of the Law on Forests. At the moment, we do not have these calculations, such as those inflows from the budget. That is why we cannot positively define ourselves to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u48	Anyone else? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. Without giving support to this amendment as a colleague from this party, Mr Janko Webr, but I think, Mr Secretary of State, that you did not understand the essence of this. It is not a matter of any additional burden, but of the damage caused in the area of forest and other roads; it is substantially, substantially greater than the resources we receive in the local budget, which are considered to be appropriate spending. That is why we always have a number of comments from the citizens who live there. Therefore, we also consider it unfair to consider this part of the compensation to be an appropriate use. But these are the means of purpose. However, this can only be achieved if this term becomes compensation in this case, it is said, does not go into proper consumption, but it is a plus for what would directly flow into the local budget. To this end, significantly higher funds are still provided from municipal budgets, because what we receive in this way could be arranged by a pot rather than by the damage it causes. Despite the fact that we always want to include those responsible, I would say, for this supervision, even the police and, similarly, we never achieve anything. The damage caused by the harvesting of wood from these forests in particular is substantial, significantly higher and exceeds some normal expectations. If something were appropriate and appropriate, it would be to support us in these efforts or to support the amendments to Articles 11 and 15. But your views are just the opposite, so I'm so much weirder. Members of Parliament would like you to have a positive definition of both amendments, both by 11 and 15 paragraphs. Believe me, we know how to deal with resources carefully and that we will make it all the more difficult to provide additional resources for what we get from this source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The secretariat asked for a word. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u51	Thank you for your word, Madam President. From the point of view of its tasks, the Secretariat is obliged to draw attention to the use of the term "compensation". The compensation is intended to compensate for certain damage, while in this case it is, in our view, a more appropriate term for "prices". In fact, we need to support the opinion of the government representative that the use of this term has certain financial implications. In the event that you take a look at the new paragraph 5 of Article 49, the compensation does not fall within the budgetary envelope, whereas this is not taken into account in the financial settlement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Did I see it right, and the government wants to perform again? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u53	Dear Members and Members! I'd just like to clarify the term "tax" and "compensation". The fee shall be the contribution of forest owners to the maintenance of forest roads on a regular basis; it shall then be governed by a sub-legislative regulation issued by the Government. This sub-legislative regulation sets out the criteria for the distribution by municipalities of fees which are actually an integral part of the budget of the municipalities. Indemnifications under the Forest Act only apply where certain users known to benefit from forest roads excessively, either permanently or temporarily. In this case, compensation shall be taken into account under Article 41 of the Forest Act, which is in force under the Forest Act. Otherwise, the fees are intended for the maintenance of forest roads on a regular basis. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Falkner, the government advisor. My friend Grochel, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I suggest we find another appropriate term. It is essential that this fee is not considered to be within the scope of the appropriate consumption. That's the whole point. That's what we want to support. Not now, whether the word is correct or not - that is the essence of this amendment. We can find another term. You just tell me which one is suitable, and the proposer, probably this amendment, will supplement that. This is because it is not considered to be an appropriate consumption. Because in this case we will say that we will not be interested in trying to arrange these roads as much as we can with the means we receive from this address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u56	Comrade Trofenic!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. It's not as simple as it looks at first sight. What you are pointing out is the fact that this is not considered to be an appropriate use. It falls into the law on the financing of municipalities. That slip. This is a school example of the non-compliance of two or more laws: the Law on Public Roads, the Law on Forests and the Law on Community Financing. Why? First, a forest road is not necessarily a public road within the meaning of a local or state road or a public road. If it's a public road, there's one problem. We know who's responsible. However, in the use of forest roads in terms of public roads, we return to the topic we had in the Law on Public Roads. These are extraordinary transports which should be treated as extraordinary transport with all the costs that arise because of the damage resulting from this. But no one does. No one is harmonising the legislation and, therefore, some are now trying to legitimately solve the problem that road damage caused by the harvesting of timber is enormous. No one covers extraordinary expenses, but regular expenses. It is true, though, that it is necessary to ask whether it really is essential that the forest roads be public roads. Because if we were to eliminate this, it would be another responsibility to maintain roads and would become an automatic price because we would find that with these recognised road costs it is not possible to maintain, let alone something else. I support my colleagues' desire to provide financial resources for maintenance, but it is necessary to see correctly. This is part of another law when it comes to calculating the appropriate spending or own income that is included. It's like a tourist tax and some other stuff. In fact, it belongs to another marriage. It is also important to return to the third law, which we had not long ago and in which we discussed emergency transport. Who allows extraordinary transportation? Who's calculating the cost? Which is totally out of order. At that time, neither the government nor the majority in the National Assembly wanted to hear this vital problem, which is now reflected here in this second form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u58	Mr. Falkner, did you want a word? Did you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u59	I would like to explain only the impact on the financial implications of the budget. This is because such a solution affects financial imbalances in the municipalities. In some congregations, they are positive, in some cases negative. It is clear that we do not know this moment and cannot accurately calculate the financial consequences of this solution. That's why it's a problem. If we are to answer this question, we should take a break in order for the government to unify its opinion and see practically these financial consequences of the law, such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u60	Please, my friend Groschel!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u61	It is true that we will deal with the 2002 budget rebalancing on Thursday. However, we also know that we are about to join the 2003 rebalancing process. By then, there will be plenty of time and you will be able to reach these calculations. If we accept the balance on Thursday, then it means that we cannot apply it in 2002 and the door for 2003 is certainly open.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u62	Okay. We have before us the texts of the amendments, as they were tabled. There was no oral change. We will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 11 in order to add a new first paragraph. If it's not accepted, everyone else becomes irrelevant. Please, colleague Weber, procedurally! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u63	With regard to immateriality, we are only talking about Article 11, of course we could understand that then because they connect. However, I would like to point out in Article 15 that this remains up to date. Because I would like to draw particular attention to the competence of the forest inspector, who applies this law and is contrary to the powers of the inspectorate in the supervision of local communities. If we're only talking about Article 11, then that would be true, otherwise not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u64	In any case, we will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 11. We can decide that. Before that, I'll invite my colleagues and colleagues to the hall if they stay in the lobby. We don't have enough to decide right now. We will therefore decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 11. We decide, please vote! I'm sorry, I'm terminating the vote. You wanted a word? Because I've asked you several times. Please explain your voice!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u65	No, the explanation. I'd ask for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u66	Yes, the explanation of the voice, otherwise
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u67	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u68	Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u69	I'd like to ask for five minutes' rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u70	I'm taking five minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u71	Ten minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u72	Ten minutes. 11.45. At 11.55 we will decide on the amendment under order number 1 to 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u73	They return to the hall after the meeting. At the request of my colleague Majnikov, I ordered a 10-minute recess for consideration before the vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 11. Please take your seats. Please take your seats. colleague Majnikov, would you like to report your decision? We'll first find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" key. There are 55 of us in the hall. My colleague doesn't want a word after the break. We will vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 11. If not adopted, all amendments to Article 11 are irrelevant and Article 1 to 15. We're voting! We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to article 11! Not accepted. Of the 53 present, 14 supported him, 32 opposed him. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 32.]] We will not vote on both the second and the third, nor will we vote on Article 1 to 15. It's about the 2nd to the 15th. Anybody want a word? He doesn't want a word. We are voting on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 15. We're voting! I beg for peace in the hall! We are voting on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 15! 55 present. 39 for and 9 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We are voting on the whole article. Please vote on the article in full! 50 present. 42 for and 3 for [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We will now vote on all other articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk about them? [[Nobody.]] I put them to the vote. 55, 48 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled have been adopted. We're at the title of the law. Nobody wants a word. We vote on the title of the law. The title of the law has been adopted. Of the 56 present, 52 are in, 1 is in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] In the third reading, qualified applicants may submit amendments to Articles 1, 5, 10, 15 and 23. Do they? I guess not. Please! Comrade Squirrel wants it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. We expected the government to consistently defend solutions, as it did in the debate. Since the government has not done so, our Group will try to prepare amendments to Articles 10 and 23.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u75	Towards Articles 10 and 23. I will then suspend this point until it is ready, so that qualified applicants can table amendments. Comrade Squirrel, will this afternoon's part be ready? Then I propose that, at the beginning of this afternoon's work, we finally decide on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests. By then, I'm gonna have to break the dot. Let's move on to the next seven. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Judicial Service Act. Government officials at the head of the minister are already with us. The government has submitted a law for consideration. Minister, you want a word? You have it, but the others don't. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u76	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In front of you is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, prepared for third hearing. In preparing the draft law for the third hearing, we have in particular balanced certain provisions on the relationship between the executive branch and the judiciary. In doing so, we took into account the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Council for Law and Legal Affairs and the views of the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice and the Slovenian Judicial Society. All the solutions adopted were largely in line with all the representatives of the judiciary or representatives of the institutions mentioned above. They also consider that there is an appropriate balance between respect for the principle of independence of the judiciary and the need for the effective functioning of the judiciary. The text included all amendments adopted by the National Assembly at second reading. Some editorial corrections and renumbering of articles have also been made. We propose two amendments supported by the parental committee. First of all, it is envisaged that a sub-legislative act regulating the criteria for the duration of leave and other absences will be adopted by the Minister with the consent of the Judicial Council. The second amendment, however, makes it more precise to determine which are the most serious infringements, the more serious disciplinary infringements of the judge, which are a condition for the termination of the judicial function. Let me mention that the parent committee has also proposed two own amendments, one of which is editorial, and the other is the question of when a judge can be accepted without his consent, and is assigned to work before another court. Following the amendment proposed, this is only possible for the need to allow the regular exercise of judicial authority. The basic text would allow such allocation for a maximum of six months also in two other cases: for the purpose of remedying the arrears or for the purpose of reducing work or reduction it belongs to the court of origin. For the Ministry, for the proposer, both options are therefore acceptable. It is, in fact, the fact that it also means overcoming the backlogs of ensuring the regular exercise of judicial authority. So much for the introduction to the third reading of the Law on Judicial Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u77	Thank you, Minister, for the introductory explanation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does he want a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[She doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the LDS Group, Mrs Lidija Majnik. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much! I would say that the Group of Members will support the amendments of the Committee and the Government by rejecting the amendment adopted by the Committee in its 41st article. After the study, we found that the first time we adopted the Law on Judicial Service was through a successful judiciary. All the indents referred to in the preceding article, which say when a judge is allocated for a period of six months without consent, are those which we also wish to introduce. It is the mobility of judges in cases where a smooth work of the court is ensured, in cases where backlogs are eliminated, and in cases where a court in the home court is unable to ensure a successful work of the judge due to a lack of jurisdiction. We will therefore reject the amendment to Article 41. I propose that we be supported by other colleagues as well. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u79	Thank you! Does any other group want a word? Because no, I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I support the changes in this law. I firmly hope that this is in the direction of greater efficiency in our courts. We've been working on this phenomenon of backlogs since I've been a member of this National Assembly. That's six years. However, we have already changed a number of laws, legislation in this area. There's been no significant movement. However, I find that courts can judge quickly if they want to. I give an example of the conviction of our fellow Member, Iv Hvalica. I take this opportunity to protest the practice of the courts, which was legally binding [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u81	Mr. Jerovšek! That's not a theme. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u82	Yes, no, this is also part of the explanation of the definition of these amendments. Who was legally convicted in a very short time. The Court rejected the audit within one week.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u83	I'm warning you again!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u84	I'll be there in case.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u85	It's not a subject of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u86	Judgment [[...]] [[He's not involved. He doesn't understand.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u87	Mr Jerovšek, I took your word because this is not the subject of this law's debate. Well, I do. If you only talk about the content of the law and the contents of the amendments, then you get the word. No, no, no. I give my word to the next debater, Mr. Pechet. Please! It's just a matter of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u88	Mr President, I ask you to apologize, correct the error, or we will order obstruction from the protest at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u89	I propose that we die to discuss the content of the law and the content of the amendments that are under third reading. And not about things that don't belong here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u90	I asked you to apologize, give your word to the debater and correct the mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u91	I just decided to do it. I'm guessing that's the rule of procedure. I give the floor to Mr Pechet as the next debater. Procedurally, Mr. Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Unless you correct the mistake you have made, I, too, on behalf of our Group of Members, predict obstruction at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u93	Excuse me! I have decided that your debate is not in accordance with the rules of procedure, that you have spoken about matters which are not the subject of the content of this law and I have done so. I will continue my work as I have foretold. Mr. Pece, I give you my word!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u94	I think you did the wrong thing. I think you took the floor at the time he tried to explain the contents of his performance. In recent times, this has been an increasingly common practice in this National Assembly, mainly by the leadership of the President, the Vice-President and you as Vice-President. I think it's incomprehensible that in a marriage as important as this, you're trying to enforce your selfish will and you're not prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u95	Mr. Pece, this is not an object.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u96	and you are not prepared to listen to the opinions of the groups of Members. A good enough reason not to take part in the law, at least the members of the Slovenian National Party, is the ignorance of the government representative or the applicant of the material, which he stated several times in his opening act, in cooperation with whom this law was created, who was all listened to, who was all invited to participate and similar things. Mr. Secretary! You should be aware that you participated in the meeting that this National Assembly has already decided once in the form of a decision, more than a year ago, at the end of May 2001, and this same National Assembly has adopted restrictions on the duration of the judicial mandate. But you don't take that any more into account than you never did. The decision was positively voted and directed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia how to define the issue. The Ministry belongs to the executive branch of the Authority. You probably know that the division of power within the Republic of Slovenia is ensured precisely because the concentration of individual power would not be exploited. Today, in the Republic of Slovenia, on the one hand, within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the other hand, in the framework of the judiciary in our country, it is still known. On the other hand, despite the fact that the Ministry proposes laws, which is its legitimate duty or right, it does not take into account the decisions of the National Assembly. So you're proposing laws as you think you are, and you're sending them to this national council? If this national council tells you anything, think about it and do something, don't do it. On the other hand, you have silence in Mr Vice-President and all those who say that they are not in agreement or because they may not understand, but it is likely that this is due because they are not ready to listen to them to the end. In the Slovenian National Party, under this point, in the framework of the strange and shameful work of the President of the National Assembly, we join the two parliamentary groups that have left the Chamber. At least we expect you to apologize for what you're doing. That's the least of it! For the time being, we are also forecasting the obstruction of this point in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u97	Thank you. Do any of the Members and Members want another word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate between Members and Members. I'm also giving the floor to the minister. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u98	Dear Members and Members! I would not like to draw this debate, but I feel it is my duty to respond to the debate by Mr Pečet. It was not possible for the applicant to come up with a solution that would limit the mandate of judges at the level of the law, irrespective of the decisions. Article 129 of the Constitution provides for the sustainability of the judicial mandate. So as long as the constitution, as it is, is valid, a marriage solution that goes in the opposite direction is simply not possible. It just doesn't seem like we're actually not taking this national assembly into account in drafting a bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u99	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 9.7. I am making an amendment to Article 25 of the Internal Policy Committee for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I am making an amendment to Article 25 under point 1 of the Internal Policy Committee. We're voting. There are only 42 of us present. I will put the amendment to Article 25 to the vote next time. All present please pay attention to the hall! Let's vote next time! There are 46 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting Article 34 and the Government's amendment to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We're voting! There's enough of us in the hall. We're not paying attention enough. Please, let's calm down. We'll decide next time. Let's vote next time! Please, let's vote another time! I'm taking a ten-minute vacation. At 12:28, we resume the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u100	Let's get back to work. There are enough of us in the hall to make a valid decision. Thirdly, I shall put to the vote an amendment to Article 34. May I have your attention, please? Let's vote for the third time! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u101	Colleagues and colleagues! I didn't have a card that had a sign that it was inserted correctly. Please, if we repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u102	Are we in favour of doing it again? May I have your attention, please? Thirdly, let us vote on the Government's amendment to Article 34. Let's vote! There are 47 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 41 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. The vote was 8 to 40. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 53 and on the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We note that Article 75 or the amendment to this Article is irrelevant because it is not tabled in accordance with Rule 196 of the Rules of Procedure. This concludes our decision on the amendments. Consistency? Please find out if the amendments that have been adopted have made the marriage inconsistent.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As a result of the amendment to Article 29, it has changed so that it is no longer necessary to adopt a sub-legislative regulation. This was the determination of the mandatory content of the assessment of the judicial service. It is therefore necessary to harmonise Article 75 by deleting the sub-legislative act referred to in Article 29 from Article 75. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u104	I'd like to ask the government to prepare a harmonisation amendment. Until then, we will break this agenda item. Unless the amendment is ready. Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u105	I propose that, as a co-ordinator, this amendment reads: "The act of sub-law referred to in Article 58, paragraph 5, of the Act shall be issued by the Minister responsible for the judiciary within three months of the entry into force of this Act." This is therefore simply a matter of deleting the reference to Article 29 and imposing a sub-law instead of a sub-law. Therefore, the text is also mentioned in the review of the amendments. However, as you know, we could not file it because this article has not been amended.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u106	Mr. Minister, I suggest you file this amendment in writing. Then we'll make a decision about him. I'm breaking this agenda. I'm moving to eight. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Security. I ask all the government's responsible representatives to join in whatever way they wish. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Would you like a representative of the government? Mr. Secretary, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u107	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The text of the draft law on third reading is prepared. The amendments adopted in second reading at the 17th meeting of the National Assembly shall be taken into account. For the third reading, amendments are proposed that, after re-examination of the competences to resolve objections to the enforcement decision, we insist on a solution already proposed for the first and second readings. We also propose harmonisation amendments and amendments, which, on the basis of the opinion of the Secretariat for the Law of the National Assembly, improve the text of this Act. In the case of the above-mentioned rules of jurisdiction to determine objections to the enforcement decision, the applicant shall, after having made professional coordination with the representatives of the Supreme Court and the higher courts, terminate the current regime whereby the debtor's unfounded objection as a complaint is always decided before the Chamber of the three Judges of the Supreme Court. Such a determination of jurisdiction, i.e. the present one, represents a significantly higher staffing burden than in the case of an individual ruling on an objection. In this way, we are trying to ensure that procedures are not unduly delayed, as it can be assumed that in cases of unfounded objections there will be no appeal brought before a higher court. In addition, an amendment relating to the criteria for the justification of the objection is proposed to regulate the decision on objections to enforcement decisions. In doing so, we assessed that in the current debt enforcement procedure, the obligation [[explain the objection issued against the enforcement decision issued on the basis of the authentic instrument]] excessive interference in debtors with the position to be provided in accordance with the constitutional principle of contradiction. For this reason, we propose a solution in which it is sufficient if the debtor in the opposition merely proposes but does not provide evidence to identify the facts cited in the objection. The other changes proposed by the amendments are of minor importance and are necessary for a more precise definition of individual institutions. Thus, a different procedure is proposed to ensure that the rubble and the non-disclosure ban are also recorded in another official register in which the movable is kept. The content of the notary record on the establishment of a direct flag right has been built up. However, the conduct of a payment transport organisation shall be determined by means of enforcement and insurance decisions, which shall be entered into by the debtor of the cash in the accounts which it has already closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u108	Thanks for the opening statement. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? I only have one written application, so I limit the discussion to five minutes. Member Branko Kelemina has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! The bill, together with the basic law, on enforcement and insurance, is, however, legally acceptable and sufficient to solve all these problems arising from claims and then also achieve the fulfilment of creditors' requirements. However, my principle opinion is that this law, together with the amendments between the lines, says that when a creditor submits a claim for payment of his claims, must first be vehemently beaten, as did Friday, because he dared to initiate such a procedure in the first place. In fact, I said that with a legal view things are properly resolved and, of course, the creditor can come to their rights, but the procedure, in what way then comes to its right, is extremely, even under this law, complex and long-lasting. On the contrary, if we look at only Article 1 of this proposal for a law, we find that this law lays down the rules of procedure whereby courts make compulsory enforcement claims. And as soon as we are in the courts - so the court procedure is this law - and as soon as we are in the courts, of course, things are stopped according to our current practice, we know how they stop. So, personally, I say that the creditor is still extremely vulnerable in this country and in an extremely subordinate situation, irrespective of this, even now adopted amendments to the bill, which otherwise improves things slightly, but at the final stage - my belief is that creditors are not sufficiently protected or that some measures are not taken in this country, on the basis of which the creditor would actually quickly, effectively and without any complications come to its right. This is unacceptable and we have not actually been able to achieve this in the 12 years of the independent state. My assessment that the creditor could get to his or her right as soon as possible, to his or her claim, is that, in order to settle, the claim would have to be settled and the most severely sanctioned crime would have to be committed. If we did this to make a claim come to pass - that is to say, I estimate that there is a business event which, of course, has all the documented backgrounds that are justifiable, we know what it means. Therefore, if the Western claim is not paid, it is not settled, it should be the most severe criminal offence. And then it would not be necessary to enforce or write much in the law on enforcement and insurance, since every debtor, I am sure, would soon find that it is not worth paying back by paying his claims because of this he will be severely punished. But of course we can't get that into our legal system. All other routes are possible, long-term procedures, long-term. After all, in the first phase, a true creditor is allowed to use execution, to file it in one way or another. Of course, if everything is going according to normal procedure and the debtor is not complaining and so on, the matter can be resolved quickly. However, there is a whole range of legal remedies - as the law also speaks of certain cases being regulated in accordance with this law - a whole series of procedural complications, which then, in the final phase of the creditor on the basis of the practice so far, discourage him from making such a request to pay his claims through the court. We know there are other options. We know that the most effective option is to secure its claims through notary records and other instruments. But people don't use it. Why aren't they being used, and now I'm not going to discuss it or figure out what I'm doing, and maybe someone else could do it. In general, as far as I know these matters, I know that creditors do not use these procedures, which, of course, for the first time, is primarily possible due to the sometimes lower size of certain transactions, some concluded transactions, they are not simply to be protected in this way. But good, if it is a million-dollar deal, or if it is of lower value, it is hardly worth doing notary records, insurance and all other procedures that would make it possible for the creditor to achieve its legitimate rights more quickly. Once the execution process or the role of execution occurs, however, things can become extremely complicated. I hope you will acknowledge all those who have thoroughly examined the proposal of this law that this is true. And then, at the stage of the procedure, the creditor can be lost or even caused a whole range of costs and even a variety of complications. And one such case in court, if it gets very complicated, in my opinion - although I don't have these analyses right now, I think about them a little bit, but I have some experience or I know a few of these cases when my customers came to tell me how these things are going - it can take a couple of years. And I ask you kindly how, then, a creditor in some modern economic world, where it is necessary to do business, to convert funds and so on, to do business normally. That's impossible. That's impossible. Well, anyway: I wonder if you can answer why we don't give it to us, let's not put it in our legislation in general first - in our legal order so that the outstanding Western claim is sanctioned. In order to be sanctioned, since only then would such a way, of course, have the creditor come to his or her claim or would have been willing to settle his or her claims in a more simple way. I would also like to point out some of the inconsistencies that have arisen with this law now after the amendment. I may have been a little too late to be involved in this adoption process itself, but I have found, nevertheless, that a lot of things are still inconvenient, not sufficiently specific. And I would also ask - of course I have a question about this - I will not now quote all the other articles, because I see that there is not much interest in discussing this important law. So I won't open all of this right now. Wait a minute. But look, among other things, they have also been proposed in one article of a criminal sanction. Now you will change these criminal sanctions after a new one, say, you have increased them from 300,000, say, to a million and so on, but then you did not correct certain provisions, which would be proportionate to what was proposed with the first intention of the law. In fact, with the first adoption of the law, it was proposed that the penalty of 300,000 tolars could be converted into a prison sentence, where after 30 days, 30 days after 10 thousand as a proportionate penalty for not paying 300 thousand tolars a fine. Now you have increased the fine to a million for natural persons, for others to 10 million, but you have not changed the other provisions at the same time. So now if someone commits a crime, they will be able to pay a million dollars or go to jail for 30 days, which according to these proposals of the law, according to the old, existing state, would amount to 300 thousand dollars. Yeah, what's somebody gonna pick up? I'm sure it's worth more rational and cheaper to go to jail for 30 days than it is to pay a million in 30 days. Pure money, a million is extremely hard to make for some small offenders who can also be present here. Now how do you explain it, I don't know. You'll explain this because some other sanctions to - I mean, I didn't understand from paying a million and going to jail. Oh, no. I think these two things are shutting down. The same goes for the rest of the fine, 10 million to a million, which it used to be. You've increased your sentences, but you're not the other things, I don't know how coordinated this is. In short, these things seem inconsequential to me. Then, for example, there are some articles where the court has no deadlines, such as when certain things have to be dealt with, but it just writes "fastest", if possible and so on. In short, I don't think the hands are exactly defined either. And there is a whole series of such complications that can then arise in the process itself, which discourages the creditor from even applying for enforcement. One of these is, for example, that the creditor has to pay in advance some of the costs of the perpetrator of the procedure and so on and then, of course, in some process gets it back, I mean, during the proceedings or if the case is positively solved for the creditor, it gets these things back. But you can also finance such costs if the process is long, a few months or even years, because it is possible under this law - those who have read it can find that if the procedure is complicated and all these various elements are taken into account, from complaints and then also attempts to change the subject of enforcement and so on, as you know, those who have looked at these matters can come to extremely complicated cases - situations that in fact cause the creditor to simply turn away from his claims. The biggest problem, however, is that creditors do not often hope, simply do not hope to put in execution, because they are simply afraid: for the first time, costs and everything else, and, secondly, they are also afraid somehow, especially if they are in conflict, for example, with the country as a payer, because the country is also overstepping its hands, through contractual deadlines, it is also said that the outstanding claims of the State are not settled, this is a fact, and the creditor is not then - I do not know almost the case that the creditor would allow and demand interest and then put in a request for enforcement, and so on, because he has lost his business; every account, well, but I will wait three months or four months, I will already get that money. But the fact is - if we did what I suggested and, as I think it would be only right that an outstanding default claim would also be sanctioned by the State authority, I firmly believe that the state would order only those works and those services or the subject matter of business that could be settled within the time limit agreed upon. In short, I'm disappointed with this law and because I'm not responsible for these things, it's probably my job to systematically regulate these matters in the country, and it's my job to point out this to the authorities. I firmly believe that we should try to accept this, to try to understand it and also to put it into law and to propose to the national assembly that these things should be arranged in such a way that it would be most appropriate for the creditor to be truly protected, no - it seems strongly that he is still not in this country, irrespective of this bill, which I say is formally satisfactory - that he is still somehow protecting the debtor. That would be my contribution. I would ask if I could answer those questions or those dilemmas that I've put in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u110	Thank you for your contribution in this debate. Anyone else want a word from the Members and Members? Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. After this comprehensive exposition, of course, I almost or doubted that it was right for us to adopt this law at all. And, of course, I would be grateful to Mr Kelemini if he could tell which country he was not paying for a long crime. If he makes one such case, then maybe we can fix it. The other, of course, would ask when he himself found that it was not possible to somehow fail - I would expect of course now that he offered some solution. I'd be grateful to him. The only thing that worries me about all of this is this transfer of accounts from the paying agency, we have to do this somehow, then me, for example, or the time of enforcement, because it falls at the time of the trial vacation and also no comment will be written very soon, so it would be just for the matter to be put off a little bit. Above all, of course, before that, I would like to hear Mr Kelemino, if he can give me some answers to the two questions above.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u112	I would point out, however, that in the third reading, that we had the first and the second, that we had every opportunity already on the working body, so that we would not open the general debate now. Do you have a replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The goal, I don't know, Mr Lavrinc, what bothers you is that I just said what somehow bothers me about this bill, this is my constitutional right, at least I think, and now I'm here to read some exposé and so on; because anyone could talk if they wanted to. Why didn't you? But I am extremely disturbed by these things as a former entrepreneur, a craftsman and still a man who advocates fair and fair work in this country. And then the payment. I'm still defending this, and I'm saying that creditors aren't insured enough. Now you're telling me here where the world is. Maybe it's not like that anywhere in the world, maybe it isn't, I don't know. But why don't we try to do it on a global scale, if that's the case, if we're so capable and I don't know what else to do with these things. But still, it's a matter of interest to the debtors not to pay, of course. That's a fact. And don't pay the one who's got the money in the safe and can turn it. We know how everything is. We're not selling these things now. However, debtors tend to avoid claims in every way, especially if they have some bad intentions. In view of such legislation, procedurally, procedurally complicated, they will certainly try to do so because of the unpaid claim of an investment which will bring them a substantial amount. It's possible today. Today you can speculate, and instead of paying for a claim, you simply make one big investment, and on that basis you make a huge profit. And then in court, you lose and you pay those, you end up winning. That's what we're doing today. And these speculations should be prevented. And now you're reading to me here that I should do something myself. I'm not a lawyer, I admit I'm not a lawyer, I'm just from practice, from life, from the field, I'm bringing this to the National Assembly, here I tell the government representatives. Yeah, if you're not all capable of doing something together in that sense, then I don't know. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I can try, I can sit, and I'm trying to do something. But the question is, if it's best for you, it's acceptable and so on. I'm the one who threw the bone, if you want, eat it if you don't, but leave it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u114	Thank you. One more time, Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u115	It's a replica because my colleague Kelemin obviously misunderstood me. I didn't tell him anything. On the contrary! On the contrary! Yeah, how you should read it to him! I only invited him, given his rich experience, if the power is to help us. But it's not an omen or anything. And so I'm going to say, the chairman has quite understood that I have a sincere desire to make things right. However, I doubt, as a lawyer, that it is possible from some small agricultural knowledge that it is possible to plant a successful vine on Triglav. Maybe that's what's really bothering me a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u116	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Minister, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Mr. Kelemina asked some questions. Let me try to answer for a moment. First of all, about the protection of the creditor. One of the main objectives of this amendment is to put the creditor in a better position or to improve his standing in the process. The biggest contribution to this is the ongoing implementation of implementation. In this direction, there is also a reduction in the amount of administration, if I may say so, in the simplification of procedures, as far as is permissible due to the appropriate protection of the rights of all parties to the procedure. This is also addressed by the more independent role played by the executives, which is introduced by this amendment of the law. With regard to the question of outstanding claims as a criminal offence, I think that such a proposal is going too far. Our criminal law provides for damage to creditors as a crime. For the time being, as far as incrimination is concerned, this seems to be a sufficient arrangement. Next, with regard to criminal sanctions. The new law only introduces here that, before the financial penalty is converted into a prison claim or penalty, it is also recovered under official obligation. In short, we are introducing here all other possibilities that the penalty imposed precisely for obstructing enforcement will recover and that it will not result needlessly in the occurrence of a new avoidance of enforcement in the process of conversion. Therefore, these fines are also provided for primarily because of this and also the threat of imprisonment is listed here mainly because creditors would not interfere with enforcement. And as you can see, we quote at least one new indent, a new conduct that is incriminated or which may be the reason for the imposition of a fine. In short, there is a whole type of conduct; all such obstacles are that they constitute an obstacle to enforcement and all these conducts are also provided for by this law as a fine.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the Members and Members? Mr. Kelemina, let's use this rest of the minute until recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u119	Just one more question, Mr. Secretary-General. Earlier, when this law was presented, you had also said that there would be a greater financial burden on the state budget because the complaints would be decided by a higher court in the Chamber of Three Judges. I think that this solution has already been such, and I do not know how the additional financial costs, the additional burdens, are now. Maybe I didn't understand your interpretation correctly, but I'm wondering why the extra costs of the new bill are, because I think things are the way they were. Only if you can explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u120	That's all we can do, and then we can close the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u121	Well, for a little while. We really didn't get along properly. The current regime, when each objection goes to a higher court immediately, is considered to be a greater burden on the court and thus a greater financial impact. We now foresee a different arrangement whereby an unjustified objection is rejected by an already executive judge and then only go to a higher court to complain against such rejection, which we expect will be far less than the objections themselves. We therefore assume that the higher court will have less to do with such matters, so that they will be burdened. This also has positive financial implications, not negative ones. I'm sorry if I was unclear in my explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. We will continue the meeting at 2.30 p.m. with the closed agenda items and then the 8th item of the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation and a good run!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u123	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Government, we continue the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 21st extraordinary meeting on 10.7.2002: Ivan Kebrič for the entire day, Danica Simšič for the afternoon part of the sitting and Sašo Peca for the afternoon part of the sitting. Since we're going to be present, I'd like to ask your attention. Colleagues and colleagues who have not yet joined us are kindly invited to the hall because we are starting work. We will be able to determine the presence in the hall, so I ask for your attention again. We're picking up the presence in the hall! We're picking up the presence! There are 46 of us present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. As announced in this morning's work, we will begin by addressing and continuing the two broken agenda items. This is first terminated on the 6th and then terminated on the 7th. Agenda items. The Slovenian People's Party's Group proposed a holiday to prepare the amendments. You have an amendment to Articles 10 and 23 on the table, so we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I am therefore putting forward an amendment to Article 10 of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group in the debate. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group in this break, we reviewed once again what the basic purpose of the government solution was for Article 10, which is linked to Article 23. And we have found that our proposal to return to the third reading is based on the re-examination of the content of this article, which was outlined in the second reading. Indeed, we have found that the solution in Article 10 is that for the first time: it constitutes a legal basis on which, through the State budget, we, as a country, can co-finance certain forest management measures, which are also an integral part of the European Union guidelines. And the obealinei, so the start of the activities of the social forest owners created by the contract or law, and the second indent, the investment to improve the conditions for the acquisition and marketing of forest products, are actually part of this guidelines and is not one of our Slovenian novels, is not a Slovenian invention. This solution will also make it possible to actually improve the use of forests, especially in private ownership. From the discussion of colleague Majnik's, we understood that its primary purpose was this or obvious that in Slovenia there are already other organizations, associations and associations that could play this role, that is to say, the role of the forest owners' association. And then we found that, unfortunately, as a country, we have to adapt to the structures in force in the European Union, although these are so complicated and hyperbiocratically conditioned. And valid, by law-established agri-land chamber or a forest institution have other functions and are unable to perform these tasks. We have also found in our discussion with government representatives that the National Assembly would act well if this article were adopted, because it could draw at least part of the European funds that would come for these purposes. We suggest that our colleagues and colleagues support this amendment. Then there is also an amendment to Article 23. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. So we have actually understood this article in the previous reading, and we have already pointed out that if such an article does not accept such an amendment to the law that the Republic of Slovenia actually cancels, I would say, the engagement of certain funds from the Structural Funds of the European Union. We simply feel unheard of and do not understand why part of the ruling coalition or the LDS voted in favour of deleting such an article. More than this article itself, we were doing a break with an analysis of why. We simply understand that there is some accounting within the coalition or opposition from the LDS to some of the solutions proposed by the obviously agricultural ministry led by the Slovenian People's Party. But all of this is happening to the detriment of, I would say, our people, our citizens, our farmers or forest owners. It seems to us that such behaviour is unacceptable, and therefore we ask you to resolve this party's opposition elsewhere; yet here in Parliament you will take care of and vote for such a solution that will be in Slovenia's best interests. Giving up European Union funds if offered for such purposes is simply unacceptable. And that policy, as far as the opposition is concerned, is worth all the condemnation. Once again, we will support this amendment, as in the previous, second reading, we have objected to the deletion of this article at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much. My colleague Sok seems to have been spending too much energy on our inter-coalitional problems, and in every case where the matter is set a little differently, then use this explanation if it's a matter of accounting. I'll say the same thing I said on the board. Because of me, it's either a marriage or it's not. And from the point of view of using European funds, that can be true, but it is not necessary. It is true that many European funds programmes are also conditional on the involvement of state resources, in this case from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. For example, the Sapard programme requires a third of the funds per two-thirds of the funds used for Sapard programmes. However, we have not written anywhere in the budget that what Sapard is describing is that individual items are listed and that funds are reserved for the food and manufacturing industry, for young families, for rural development and so on, and for a common programme. And of course, if we write down that, on the basis of this law, we also need to provide certain funds, if available, of course, for some such programmes, that does not mean that we will receive funds on the other hand, or if we get them there, if we do not specifically have the law written down that those funds cannot be used. The budget of normally broader items covering several purposes may also benefit from funds, without being specifically indicated in the budget or in the law that this will be so once in the future ten years ago. So, my replica was primarily not to be politicized in any way in the way of relations within the coalition, but in the second part I mean to say that this is the case for me, but it is not necessarily so, and nothing bad will happen if it does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I can see two hands. I mean, who wants a replica or a debate? Mrs. Majnikov, do you want to replicate? Here you go, replica, Mrs. Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I am sorry that Comrade Sok was not on the Committee on Agriculture, but perhaps some things would have been easier to clear up there than they are at the parliamentary session now. This Regulation sets out three objectives: support, forest management and forest development, the second objective is to maintain and improve forest resources and the third objective is to expand forest areas. All these objectives, however, have a series of measures, and we have taken and translated two from these measures, but there are many more. By forgetting to say and to write down in the law that private parties and their associations, local communities and their associations are entitled to the measures. It is said that the beneficiaries are much more than the proposer offers us here when he offers only an association of forest owners. I would therefore like to ask why it was then forgotten about the local communities and their associations; and if there is no association written anywhere, the association is all that I spoke about this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The next one has a replica, Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Of course, I apologize to Mr Juban, and I have no intention of dealing with relations within the coalition. However, it pains me to see that, because of your lack of harmony, you are actually making decisions that are at the expense of the citizens. Vote the deletion of Article 10 of this amendment and thus give up the funds offered by the European Union in the event of mergers, I do not think it is wise and wise. But you voted with a large majority in the second reading and now, of course, the Slovenian People's Party is somehow proposing that this mistake be corrected in the third reading. I hope that you will demonstrate this breadth and wisdom, and that you will now actually reintroduce this 10th article into this amendment of the law. Also, the President - I certainly have not been on this Committee on Agriculture, usually I attend each Committee, I think that at least as many as you, Mrs Majnikova - the chairman of the Committee said that you have considered this on the Committee and that the Committee has rejected it for the most part. Yes, I don't know, the chairman of the committee said this in the introduction, and if the committee refused to do so, then I don't know why now the biggest coalition party has suddenly reconsidered and with their partner, the United List, somehow trying to manage this issue through the board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Debate, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u134	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, honourable Members and Members. Indeed, the fact is that what former colleague Majnikov has already said that other supplements have not been submitted by the Government in amending the current forest law, that this is not true. In fact, if the entire basic Article 48 is read in detail, it will be found that the possibilities for co-financing by forest owners as well as other associations are also lacking in this Article. Moreover, the fact that if we do not give these two options in this law is the first possibility that we will also co-finance the start of the activities of the association of forest owners, associations and other options is said to be the co-financing of investments to improve the conditions for the acquisition and marketing of forest products, that if these matters are not enshrined in the law, they will also not be the basis for the acquisition of funds or the determination of funds in the state budget. Of course, if we do not perform these two tasks, we will not be able, for these purposes, to run for European funds. But I'd like to point out two important segments. Indeed, the fact is that the organisation of forest owners in Slovenia is very bad at the moment. In the business area, following the so-called collapse of the former GG flows, only certain agri-agricultural cooperatives or forestry cooperatives in those areas where they are organised and where they operate in an organised manner are currently operating. But this action is limited to a certain extent. Everything else is actually left behind, it is not organized, I think it is very bad because the actual structure of Slovenian forests and the ownership of these forests is very fragmented. And it is in this light that I understand the Government's proposal, as well as this action of the European Union, which is still very important, especially for the ownership structure of our forests, to enable, for the first time, the organisation of forest owners and thus to promote the organisation of forest owners, on the other hand, that, through the organisation of forest owners, there is also an attempt to achieve an appropriate, coordinated performance for the implementation of certain projects in our forests. I am convinced that the current situation in the forests, which in fact shows an increasing supply of wood in the forests, and the non-exploitation of the annual floor in private forests, which is a benefit of about 60 per cent, will in a few decades, if the situation goes in this direction, lead to a significantly lower quality wood composition in Slovenia. In fact, all forest experts will clearly tell anyone here in the hall that the forest, if properly exploited, can also obtain maximum quality. And I am sure that the current situation in private forests can already point to a critical situation, as far as actual exploitation in Slovenian forests is concerned. And from this point of view, I am convinced that it is still important that the State Assembly actually listens to these government proposals and also adopts the amendment, which is now the third-reading amendment of the Group of Members, especially as an opportunity that the forest owners actually have, and the possibility of the measures envisaged and envisaged in the future after the entry into the European Union in the field of forestry. If we don't write this down, then we won't be able to use the funds for these purposes either. That's more than clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u136	It would be much more useful if Mr Rokavec and some others did not support this amendment, because it might even be easier to support it. And no matter what, maybe we will. But we are the only country in Europe that has managed to make profitable forests, forests, institutions, acceleration services, agri-land chambers to which the country pays hundreds of millions a year for virtually no income from these forests. These are things that are known that we discussed around the agricultural land and forests fund and that is why we also rejected the law if you remember. The numbers are just like that. And look when you talk about it: there will be no funds from the European funds, because Europe knows no other than this type of merger. Of course, we know the agri-agricultural chamber, where - how many 100 million have we already given for this purpose, or are we putting in the budget every year? How much are we paying for the promotion? How much do we give for some other things? And because of me - and ultimately I know that the directive will enter into force directly with the entry into the Union, probably 1.1.2004, as stated by this law and that from this point of view, I would expect you to propose that, as soon as we introduce this institution, we, through the forest owners' association, introduce subsidisation and promotion, better sales and so on, to propose the abolition of that part of the money coming from the state budget within the framework of the agri-economic chamber for the promotion of activities within the framework of forestry. I am sure, as I am now standing here, that I will not experience this proposal, and if I live another hundred years, by those who now advocate this amendment. I'm sure of that. That is why I think it is most correct that it should simply be done as it is; therefore, as it was adopted in the second reading, and that since 1.1.2004 - when I hope that we will be used directly in the European Union - the State budget will be provided and the Structural Funds will also be made available. These are things that I think are completely understandable. But we are, I say, the only one and I face the same debates year after year, I do not want to go into these discussions, but every year we give more money for it. However, local communities are constantly complaining that they do not get money from the state budget for forest roads, that those who cut forests do not pay for maintenance of forest roads, that someone third also, of course, and forest roads are worse than they were ten years ago. That's just the way it is in the field. You probably know, and that's why you're probably gonna fix it, and you might as well do something. But what I do know, I know that roads are worse and even more, even those roads that are imported to forest roads, here are some mayors in this national council, which are countless times, according to agricultural land and forests, we also discussed how these things are. And of course, only my only advertising at this point is that we cannot simply impose additional resources on the state budget for one activity with every law. That's my concern, and that's all. With the budget for the agri-agricultural chamber, with the budget for some other things and with another law again only subsidies by the State. But how to do it economically, how to do it, that it will be - I am firmly convinced that from these forests and the owners of these forests we should also make a commitment to these things working, not that it is on the State's own account.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. To implement Mr Anderlič, individuals want to replicate, in the following order; first, Mr Rokavac's replica, then: Mr Jerovšek, Mr Sok and Mr Podobnik. Here you go, Mr. Rokavec, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u138	Yes, Mr Anderlich, I don't know, because if you really wanted to answer what you were discussing here, you could have triggered a wave of long debates, because, frankly, - and I probably don't need to assess it - what a serious forest expert would have estimated that you're not and you don't know it. Frankly, the first is: the forest road maintenance fee is known to be paid by all forest owners. All forest owners in this country are liable to pay the fee. How much this fee is, Mr Anderlich, a matter of state and also of jurisdiction. And not here then, look, I think it's very unfair, very incorrect [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u139	I'm asking for peace. Mr. Anderlich, please don't touch Mr. Rokavac's word. I'm asking for peace. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u140	Well, if you'll allow me, Mr Anderlich, it's very unfair in this case when there's only one possibility in the law that, in addition to the funds that are already in the budget for this, only to enter into the law, the state can also run for funds in the European Structural Funds. I think it's very unfair. And secondly, Mr Anderlič, as regards the agri-agricultural chamber, has only the name of the agri-agricultural chamber. The government, if you are well aware, at one of its last meetings in adopting the programme of the agri-agricultural chamber in the financial part, has completely removed the financial programme for the forestry sector. And probably as the leader of the parliamentary group of the largest coalition party, the government party, we could probably know. No! No! And it is also unfair to mislead this esteemed assembly that the country is giving the agricultural and forestry chamber any financial means at this time because it does not provide them. And in fact, I think that if this amendment is rejected, it will be rejected because it is a proposal to facilitate the organisation of the association of private forest owners in this country and also to promote more organised action in these forests in this country - we will not be able to understand anything else - or the cancellation of the part of the European Union's funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Comrade Anderlič was very prominent in his performance, when we made forests of profitable forests that bring loss in Slovenia; in a transparent way he showed that the stakes of old times, after feudalism in the field of forestry and after the times when forest owners were literally oppressed, they worked without any profit. And I'll tell you, Mr. Anderlich, what it was like, why there were profits. For example, in Slovenska Bistrica the farmer took the wood directly to Lip, the foresters did not see it, but only sent an account to the forest economy. With transport combined he got a farmer out of ten parts of one part, a forest economy that did not see the wood at all, set up an account for six parts and left the forest economy with five units and of course had extra profits and paid a lot of other things, including a system of certain things. Today, of course, there is no such monopoly in the field of trade in timber and profits are significantly lower. The cut wood was never as cheap for consumers as it is today, which brought the abolition of the monopoly. However, Slovenian forests, if well managed, are still constant - where there are good forests - but it is true that you have credit for the fact that concession fees of some large, former managers, who have been awarded concessions for the I don't know, 20 years, against European standards, do not pay these concessions. And that's the reason. And at the same time, on the basis of the imposition of one silence such as this, you are now criticising the owners who are working and managing properly and preventing them from somehow strengthening and working for the general good of Slovenia, because forests are an important element in the perspective of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Next for the replica, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u144	Thank you very much. For a short period of time, because, in fact, colleague Jerovšek has already said one part of it. I must say that I agree with Mr. Anderlich and that there is much of what he said is true and true. It is also true that Slovenia is probably the only country in Europe that has awarded a concession for 20 years without an invitation to tender until 2013. And Comrade Anderlich, hand to heart, this has helped you to vote in this House. You accepted this here, and from these forests, at least to my knowledge, by the end of last year, this country received nothing. It is said, intelligent management with this is such; well, that does not mean, of course, that the forests brought nothing. She didn't get anything from the state. It was only in the hands of individual owners, individuals who, with the help of you who made such a decision, had become quite rich at that time. An attempt was made last year to amend this Law on Agricultural Lands and Forests, and this, after the law of 20 years of concession, reduced to ten to end in 2003, but if you go to see the debates here in this National Assembly, you did not agree to it either. You have simply returned this matter and, of course, it follows that these forests are poorly managed, that the country does not get enough of it and then on the other hand it cannot invest. However, if it were to be properly managed, of course, the state forests should make money and, of course, this money could be put back peacefully, even for such a proposal as to allow forest owners who are separated, which are small, as Member Rokavec said, to unite, but if they were to unite, I have the feeling that someone is afraid that they would become strong and could compete with these GGs, which, of course, you are completely and with all means, I don't know how many years you've been protecting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate my colleague Anderlich. I am not familiar with this issue, but I would like to be a good professional on this subject as a leader of the parliamentary group, and I have one goal to convince my colleagues and colleagues that this amendment will be adopted. I'm not interested in the artistic impression here. The issue of forests is one of those that can lead to very heated debates as a rule. This is where old ideological divisions open up and so on. I'd go over it. I'd go over it. I would like to say that the area of forestry in the government is covered by the distinguished Mr Strle, who is the representative of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. And that's the right thing to do. That one party does not have a complete area of agriculture. That is why, I would like to say that I would not, in any way here publicly jump into my hair with my colleague Anderlich, because this is unnecessary, because some would rather wait for the LDS and the SLS to "cut off" in the field of agriculture. We should "cut" ourselves on other issues, public finance issues, not agriculture. But I respect my colleague Anderlich's opinion when he said in the introduction that he was actually critical of this area. This does not mean that he will vote against the amendment. It is said that, as a good professional, he, too, left open the possibility of supporting this amendment. However, there is something else to say: frustrations, objections to the functioning of the agri-agricultural chamber should not affect the decision on this amendment, as this is not the case. It has nothing to do with this question. Here we must admit that it is, however, a matter of adapting our legal order to the Brussels model, which is complicated and hyperbiocratic. The only dilemma discussed earlier by my colleague Juban is if these provisions are not in law and we receive money from the European Structural Funds for these purposes, whether it will be correct when the European inspection comes, not ours, European. Because they're gonna control us for their money. Will we be able to use it if we do not have a legal provision? Government officials have previously convinced me that we must have our own legal basis to do so. So let's do this. Let us make sure that we have a legal basis so that we can legally spend the European denarius for purposes and purposes. Other frustrations and resentments in the field of agriculture, but let’s save them some other time, perhaps in the autumn or some other time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u148	I really don't have any frustration about agriculture, because I've spent 10 years on a one-way or one-way road, and I'm going to do it for another year. So there's no dilemma here. However, I find it extremely, extremely cynical that Mr Strlett is attributed to the Liberal Democracy, when it is known that for decades no one from the LDS has been there, even if Mr Strle is there. But what's even more cynical, of course, is that you say, if not, because someone from the party is there, so you'll think about whether you'd support it or not. No! No! It's primarily about talking about things, not about who's coming from and who's having frustrations. And it's obviously just frustration. John, when you say, "Yeah, because I don't know how to score, but I put one of the Liberal Democrats in there, and they'll believe me." I find that extremely unacceptable. And you wouldn't do it that way, really not. And it's only about public finances, Mr. Janez. Only for public finances. And I listened carefully if either Mr Rokavec or Mr Podobnik said that they would say that, however, only when we arrive in the European Union by 2004, that a way of organising that is specific and that Europe does not know will be abolished. Except for two, two countries, but not entirely, you know this way of congregational organization. And I didn't hear that. I wasn't lucky because I don't believe it's possible to promise. But I thank Mr. Sok. He found out exactly and confirmed my thesis. It is true that I have listened a great deal to Mr Prof. Mlinska, who has explained and demonstrated how the forests were, say, Sloveniangrass, lids and so on, as an example to foresters all over Europe. All over Europe! And here were professional symposiums on how to manage forests and so on. And look at him! Now that the method of organisation has changed, but now that the method of funding is different, this is no longer the case. And when I say that I would like to see that the public finances that Mr Podobnik is talking about are arranged in a transparent way that, if we are talking about forestry in particular now, we know that so much money is devoted to the agricultural budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. In the framework of the agri-agricultural chamber - indeed, with the last decision, it is no longer so much because it has been found that this money is given elsewhere - so much. Last year or before 500 million to be set up in this segment as well as for activity in this segment. And in the coming year, I'm sure that too. That the next item is the forest office 3.5 billion that the acceleration service is in one part also funding and so on. That's all I want to know, Mr. Parallel. That's what this is about. And these are public finances and transparency and transparency. I don't stand for less. I advocate that this is a fair and comparable, transparent way with other activities. I'm not fighting to get this segment down. I advocate that you get as much as you get now, because this is already recognised in one law, in the budget and so on. But here's where another thing comes in. I just said that it's unfortunate that this is the way to set things up mainly because I thought we were chasing around the back of the shadow. To enter the European Union, the directives will act directly. If this is so when Slovenia is ready to do so, and will be ready with the year we enter it, it will provide as much money in its 2004 budget, there will be no legal basis for this as a directive and will be able to apply for the withdrawal of funds from the Structural Funds. This thing is quite simple. It's either because of the lighting or because of the clarity of the fog that's here, obviously, when you're funding in six or seven areas for the same activity, that's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. One more replica, Mr. Sok. Please, let's slowly finish the replicas of this story. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I think that the rules of procedure allow us to respond as Members. Mr Anderlich has now given us a nice lecture and explained to us how these things are supposed to work and not work. We all say we're in agreement, and everything's nice and good. But let me tell you something. If you're talking about transparency in forest regulation - state forests, we're talking about state forests - the Committee on Agriculture was recently in Prague and we asked there and your colleagues can tell you that because they were there. We asked: “How do you manage state forests in the Czech Republic?” They simply said what the opposition here also advocated: that every year they have an invitation to tender and each year those who are masters of the state must make an effort and succeed in the invitation to tender. Not like Slovenia, which has been through a public tender, with your help, colleagues from the LDS and from this majority coalition, has allowed such a principle to be enforced. And one more thing. When we asked them, on average, how much does the country get from a cubic of forests, they said, about 1,000 kroner from a cubicle on a stump. Then calculate how much we have. I tell you, by December last year, because we don't know about this year, we don't have this data - now I don't know when these concession contracts are signed, what it costs - but by last year it was somewhere between 400 and 500 Slovenian tolars, between 400 and 500 Slovenian tolars! That's how much the country got, or the GGs themselves have determined how much they're going to pay. And if this is how we manage forests, then it's really pointless to say anything about it; it's easy to find that management of Slovenian forests is bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u152	I'd have a replica on my colleague Sok's performance. Otherwise, I would like to point out that we are talking about private forests at this point, not state forests, but when it comes to nationals, and given the information and what Sok was saying, I would like to say that only from the GG or forestry area of Kočevje comes into the budget of the fund 200 million tolars per year. That's how the data you give doesn't actually hold you. Please stop deceiving yourself on this side with information that's really inaccurate and unfounded and I don't know what else to say. The fact is that in Slovenia we have decided to make a transition from former social enterprises in a way that recognises the right to manage parts in state forests also to the current GG, and this has been determined by a 20-year period, which has also passed the constitutional assessment. This constitutional judgment is what I think we can say that we can stop talking about these processes. But the fact is, it's very easy to tear down all the former social enterprises and say so, and now we're just gonna call every year. To perform quality works in the forest you must be professionally qualified, have technology and so on and so on. If these data were compared: Hungary, Slovenia and other countries, we would probably find that Slovenia is still the farthest organised to manage state forests. This problem was being tackled not to improve forest management, but to get as much out of state forests as possible, but not to invest back in these forests. In this way, I think that this debate on state forests could also be concluded, because it is not actually the subject of what is being resolved in this law today. This law states that it is also possible to obtain funds from the European Union to improve the conditions for the acquisition and marketing of forest products, particularly for private-owned forests. There is certainly a whole range of other unresolved issues in Slovenia. This solution, which we are going to add, is also actually problematic because it is not well defined. Today, congregations are called upon, so the procedures for maintaining forest roads are run by the congregations. Even today, in coordination, we have somehow heard that this will lead to a call for funds from the European Union for a ministry, an agency, perhaps an agri-agricultural chamber and so on. In fact, we do not know exactly who will be, how the procedure will be, so that we can even get these funds in 2004. That's why these squabbles are opening up. There are too many open questions. Whether to add one more or not is what we are now talking about in the area of private forests. Although I think it is good to obtain some additional resources, because obviously in Slovenia we do not have enough to invest back in forests and forest infrastructure, but there are too many resources for other purposes. Since we cannot solve this, it may be small, I would say, a contribution to improving the situation of this principle, that we will get something from Europe and that we will then perhaps say that, but also from our resources which are set aside for various purposes, we will stop this practice and say "O. K., we will also support this European instrument with these funds and it will be possible to regulate the matter." This is also one of the reasons why we are likely to listen to the amendment that has been tabled. Indeed, there is still an open question that all procedures, how to deal with these funds and who will distribute them are not sufficiently clear. This opens up these dilemmas that are present here today. Why $10 million to start someone's operation? Will this be possible to apply throughout Slovenia? How it's gonna come, who's gonna come, which area, whether it's gonna be on the client line, or whether I don't know what it's gonna be like. A whole series of questions are opening up. It is not necessary to discuss this in Parliament and then try to get some appropriate solutions. I am concerned, however, at this Article 18 if I may touch the second paragraph, that funds for the construction, maintenance of forest roads or the construction of trains will be provided primarily in connection with the Structural Funds. Does this mean, in particular, that once again, if I turn back the funds provided from my budgets for them, once again, even under this law, the municipalities will be even more neglected than they have been to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, the replica. I very much ask that in replicas you really limit yourself to this part that is ahead of us, this is the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u154	Thank you, Madam President. I thank you for warning me. I would also ask you to warn Mr Jakič, who speaks even when he does not have a word, and works quite uneducatedly to keep an eye on this and react at all times as president. Just one sentence. I don't know how much I said. I don't know how much forest economies are paying now. But by the time the concession contracts were signed, the agricultural land and forest fund received approximately 400 million annually from the sale of state forests or timber in state forests. This is data, and it may also be possible for my colleague Jakič, who has passed me so far as to have a word, to warn me that I should prove it. So I'm gonna get him that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, your statement that Mr Jakič is speaking to you, I apologize, but I am also not able to see all the signs you Members tell each other and it is not my duty either. However, if anyone is loud enough to judge that the falcon has been disturbed, I have so far rightly warned everyone, regardless of which group he belonged to. Replica, Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u156	Just a short replica. The forestry economies have been working all the time to conclude a concession contract, the fund is not, and is an unjustified claim that the foresters are to blame. That's all I'm doing is correcting that statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u157	Thank you very much. You want a word, Mr. Strle? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. A lot of questions have been asked. Perhaps in such a short time it is impossible to answer everything, but I would try to clarify a few questions. We will not be able to benefit from the 1994 directive alone if we do not have in our acts, according to the law, the legal basis, because the State of Slovenia must also contribute. Associations of owners, these are meant mainly by associations of small owners, but of course there is no obstacle to the accession of local communities or other forest owners. And this, of course, applies to the second indent. As far as the allocation of these funds is concerned - the allocation of these funds will be defined in more detail by means of sub-legislative acts. Of course, these sub-laws will be issued by the Minister, and the conditions will also be written for who can obtain these funds. Once again, I say that, in particular, these items are intended for small, small forest owners to also achieve better efficiency in forest management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I can conclude the debate at the time of the amendment to Article 10. Let me give you another explanation. Since the amendment to Article 23, which follows, of the same parliamentary group is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 10, in the event of the non-admission of the amendment to Article 10, the vote on the amendment to Article 23 will also be irrelevant. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 10. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 36 votes against 13. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 23, which is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 10. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. There were 47 votes against 5. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have therefore ended our vote on the amendments. I ask the secretariat whether there may be a breach of mutual compliance with the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore going to vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government and our secretariat very much for participating in this item. And we're moving to the morning part of break seven. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the law on judicial service. On the basis of the Secretariat's conclusion on legislation and legal matters that the adopted amendments violated the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law, the Government submitted the harmonisation amendment you received on the bench. He wants a word with the representative secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] About the content, Mr. Cukjat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u160	We have predicted obstruction to this point, so we will [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u161	And you'll continue with the obstruction. Thank you very much. There is no discussion on the content of the harmonisation amendment, so we are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 75. We're voting. The first vote on the harmonisation amendment was not successful. Members and representatives of the groups that have not announced the obstruction, please join us in order to be able to make a valid decision on the harmonisation amendment. The second vote, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is due to take place immediately after the failure of the first vote. Secondly, we vote on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. The second vote was not successful either, so in 10 minutes, at 3:42 a.m., we will have a third vote on the harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much. So we continue at 3:42 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u162	Since we are going to vote on the harmonisation amendment for the third time, please take your seats. We have therefore concluded the debate on the harmonisation amendment to Article 75, of which the Government is the proposer. We will vote on that. Once again, I pray for peace in the hall. This is the third time we have voted on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. This way we can move on to a decision on the proposal of the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I thank the representatives of the government and the representative of the secretariat very much for their cooperation. We're moving to break eight. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Execution and Insurance. In this morning's work, we concluded the general debate. In this part, we are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. I invite representatives of the opposition who obstructed the previous point to the hall. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 9.7.2002. I am putting forward an amendment to Article 21 to the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Government to Article 35. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Government to Article 38. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Government to Article 47. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Government to Article 58. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present. 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting forward an amendment to Article 90 to the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Government to Article 91. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Government to Article 103. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting forward an amendment to Article 106 to the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote on the amendment to Article 106 has not been successful, so I would like to ask your attention. Mr Jakič, now you are disturbing my work and my fellow Members' participation in the decision-making process, so I ask for peace in the Chamber. Secondly, we will vote on the Government's amendment to Article 106. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Government to Article 110. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to Article 115. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u164	Thank you very much. With this amendment, we propose that the appointment of the executor be deleted from the condition of completing the Faculty of Law. We know that in order to obtain the name of the executing entity it is necessary to carry out an examination for the executing entity, irrespective of the type of education. We believe that there is no fundamental reason for a university-graduate lawyer's professional title to give priority to other professional titles. We believe that such a provision is contrary to the principle of equality before the law, as discrimination on the basis of education is presented. We expect you to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u166	Yes, unfortunately, I will not support the amendment, because to say this, it would be to say that one dentist is a very good executioner. I think that in this kind of work, especially experience, this is how they learn, how important high-level vocational education is, university education in the legal direction. Therefore, of course, what is written is better than this and, of course, I invite colleagues who think similarly that the amendment is not supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you want a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u168	Just for a little while. The applicant provided for a requirement for university education in the legal direction due to the nature of the function performed by the executors, in view of the anticipated greater independence of the work of the executors and, of course, also due to certain tasks that are expected to be put before the executors in the future. We are of the opinion that the provision is not discriminatory, as for some other functions in the judiciary, university education is explicitly and only required.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 115. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 13 votes against 36. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am putting forward an amendment to Article 121 to the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the last amendment of the government to Article 124. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. I ask the representative of the Secretariat if there may be a breach of mutual compliance with the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. That is why we can go to the vote on the bill as a whole. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and the representative of the secretariat very much for their cooperation. And we're moving on to 9. PERIOD OF THE DAY — REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SAFETY OF ROAD TRANSPORT LAW, QUIET PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I invite representatives of the government to the hall. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior among us very much. I ask the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rado Bohinec, would you like a word on the bill? Mr. Bohinc, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u170	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me very briefly something about this law, changes and additions to the road safety law. This is a novelty of a very important regulation, which focuses exclusively on issues related to the adaptation of our acquis to the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u171	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Dear Members and Members! Mr Minister is presenting a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u172	We have originally drawn up a broader proposal, including the resolution of some of the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in recent years in the implementation of this law, but it has been shown that there are even more of these shortcomings and that a more thorough revision of this law will be necessary. In the Ministry of the Interior, we have also prepared ourselves with the Ministry of Transport and will also present this broader amendment to the law in late autumn. Thus, the proposal that is now before you focuses exclusively on the issues that relate to coordination with the directives and regulation of the European Union. All together, given the scope of the regulation and the matter, we divide it into two parts. The first is the operational part, as we call it, and the second part is the administrative part. The operational work adds provisions on international cooperation, on the international communication of data or reports to international authorities and oganisations, which is consistent with the 1988 Directives and the Directive on Data on Traffic Accidents and on Joint Controls carried out. The other type of amendments and additions relate to the unification of terms, which we also draw from the relevant directives of the European Union and regulations. This is Article 19, which rephrases the terms of this law. The third major area of change concerns so-called social legislation. Here are questions related to working time, rest and daily and weekly rest of drivers and crews in vehicles. Again in line with the European Union Directives laying down social standards relating to road transport, which also lay down common standards for road traffic recording equipment. The following changes relate to some of the new categories of vehicles that have occurred due to technological developments. These are specific types of three or four-wheels, which are also regulated by the Directive of the Parliament and of the Council of Europe. The removal of the so-called presumption of liability of the owner of the motor vehicle is a major novelty. The envisaged change allows for the possibility of proving, in accordance with the principle of reverse evidentiary burden for the owner of the vehicle, if the vehicle was operated in the event of an accident by someone else. In this second part, however, the changes relate mainly to drivers by introducing new categories of four or new categories of motorcycles mentioned above, which relate to the acquisition of a driving licence for these types of vehicles and the additional novelty relates in general to the licence form. One year after our entry into the European Union, we will have to use a new driving licence form, and this form will only be applied to those who will re-acquire it or who will explicitly want it and do not foresee a general modification of those documents. Then there are some additions in the section on vehicles. These supplements relate to data on the marketing authorisation. Once again, we are in line with the European Union Directive on vehicle registration documents. Then there are certain provisions concerning vehicles which do not conform to the type-approval and the legal consequences or sanctions in this regard and with regard to the registration and decommissioning of vehicles where the Ministry of the Environment and Space in this regard is authorised. An important group of amendments concerns, the latter refers to a Directive of the Council of the European Union on end-of-life vehicles. Previous to the Directive on type-approval of motor vehicles and trailers. In addition, part of the amendments relating to the supervision of technical inspections. This is coordination with the European Union Technical Inspection Directive, where it is a matter of establishing inspection powers for persons reviewing the implementation of technical checks, as regulated in Europe. Let me get this straight. It is therefore exclusively, I repeat, only for changes in the legal order of the European Union and it will be necessary to amend significantly more or to supplement the law to a significantly greater extent in order to achieve a more appropriate road safety regulation. I therefore announce a more thorough revision of this law in the coming period. For today, I propose, as the Internal Policy Committee has also defined, that we focus exclusively on amendments that fulfil this function of alignment with the acquis. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Vice President, Mr. Franz Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. At its 30th extraordinary meeting, on 4.7 and 5.7., the Internal Policy Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, a rapid procedure sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and admission to the National Assembly. As the proposalr's representative pointed out in the introduction, the majority of the proposed articles meant that the Slovenian acquis should be brought into line with the acquis of the European Union. With regard to the other articles, he explained that these are articles which are only directly linked to the acquis of the European Union or which are part of the proposal to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. The bill also provides a legal basis for the establishment of a national road safety organisation, as a national organisation needs to be established because a national road safety programme has recently been adopted. The representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs drew attention to the lack of alignment of the proposal with the national road safety programme adopted, the new definition of the tasks of the municipal road safety councils, the need to reconsider the provisions on inspection, the need for technical checks, the need for reconsideration, the need for monetary penalties and transitional provisions and deadlines for the implementation of individual provisions of the law. There was a substantive and substantive debate on whether the law should be supported by a rapid procedure or by regular procedure. In view of the Government's assurance that it is a matter of harmonising legislation within the European Union, the Committee decided and supported, on a fundamental basis, the proposal for a fast procedure. The Committee supported only those provisions and proposals for amendments, which are to align the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order of the European Union. Thus, the committee did not support the amendments of the Magi. Janez Kramberger and Victory Jelinčič and other amendments that have been tabled. Following a discussion on the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Road Safety Act, the Committee adopted the following decision: the Internal Policy Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Road Safety Act be considered and adopted in a rapid manner, with amendments adopted or supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic, followed by the opinion of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Even if you don't publicly admit it, I'm sure you'll think I'm right about what I'm about to say. Just as this law has been dealt with, as frivolously, as superficially as it can have, and such consequences as this law can have, it is a school case of how Parliament and its working bodies should not work. Although the Minister said that the government has only drawn up this law in order to harmonise with the European Union, I must say out loud that this is not true. The original proposal, which came, contained a number of other things, which had nothing to do with the European Union and its coordination with European legislation. The second time I want to warn you, I'm going to Brussels repeatedly, not on a trip, but to hear a lot of things. In Brussels, we are told that the legislation of one country and of the European Union is being harmonised, which is also, of course, right. And I must say that it bothers me very much that we are saying that we are harmonising Slovenian legislation with European legislation - no, we are coordinating Slovenian and European legislation. And this is a typical example of really aligning Slovenia with Europe. I know the principle of subsidiarity or division, by which the European Union should then have the right to cut down if it does not like something in a country. But, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, the situation we have on our roads, the quality of our roads, our vehicles, our rules, they are not and cannot be the same as others. And the European Union cannot ask the subsidiarity to apply what they think is written or not. Although I agree - to go back - it would be right to deal with the law in such a form and content as was originally given, i.e. with articles that have affected not only European legislation, but have also affected the regulation of others, for us, for our country of very important elements. However, in 240 articles, respected colleagues and colleagues, there are two options - whether we are such geniuses, that we can arrange all of this quickly, or whether it would be fair and just for all of us to go through all the changes made soberly, smartly, in a normal manner. Even though I know we're hunting, I don't know what hands with European legislation, but these hands won't bring back the lives that will be lost on the road. Just for example, for illustration, not because our, my client champion, Victory Jelinčič Noblemen from the Slovenian National Party suggested that if you wish, if you think, you can look at the amendment of paragraphs 10, 11 and 12 of paragraphs 97, where it says, 10.: “The highway is prohibited from turning.” 11: “It is allowed to stop the vehicle only because of the defect.” 12: “In the case of traffic congestion, enough space is allowed to be left in the middle of the traffic lanes closest to the left edge.” Our champion suggested that this was not the case for vehicles in the E.R., for ambulances, for firefighters, but that this committee rejected the proposal of such an amendment, which meant that in Slovenia we would be ambulances and firefighters, regardless of the provisions of this, were refused under the pretext that it would not be part of the European legislation law. But I do know that they would have rejected him even if they had treated him differently. I want to remind you that with common sense it is necessary to regulate such a law. It is good that the Internal Policy Committee in which I participated wanted and wanted to help and find some compromise between Slovenia and the European Union due to the approximation of the legislation, but that does not mean anything. We have made such a mess and such chaos, admit to yourself that you do not know what article it is in and when you go again, you see that one is completely inconsistent with another article, which, of course, clearly and loudly emphasises the Secretariat for Justice or the Internal Policy Committee of our Parliament, which says that this proposal is inconsistent with the adopted national road safety programme. However, it is, of course, in force with the European Union. However, it does not need to be aligned with the national programme. Then the secretariat goes on to say that they have explicitly pointed out that the deletion of articles which are not directly linked to the alignment of the Slovenian acquis with EU law poses a risk that the provisions of the bill will not be harmonised between themselves, as I said before, and what has been done. Now let's just think honestly about whether we will now be satisfied with some time-consuming and the need to harmonise one piece of paper, even though a thorough review is predicted, whether we will step together and make one law as it should be. But this is about traffic on the road. However, for the various interests of all together, our interest is a safe ride and as few dead as possible. Based on what I'm saying, I'm not going to steal time because we're all nervous and tense. Colleagues in the European Parliament, in most countries - and by the way, I will say this, although not 'past', I hope you will not interrupt me because of one sentence - because they are already on vacation. We're one of the few that's still doing the right thing. But it's a good thing I don't steal time. I think that everything is true and that once this Parliament should think, because it is only a legislative branch of power, in its head, no matter what the government wants or what anyone else wants to do, to save this law as it should be. If not, this law is a disgrace and a school case of how Parliament should not work. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan. Here you go. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u178	Thank you. Madam Vice President, Your Honor! The law before us is a law that is bad or lucky to be constantly changing. We are also continuing to listen to promises about how a comprehensive approach is being prepared, how we will resolve the matter in a comprehensive, broader, long-term way, I hope that the promise we have heard from the Minister today will be kept, because we have heard it more than once, and now it would be time to have it on the table a long time ago. [[...]] This is also a law that constantly promises to comply with European directives. However, I must say that in our Group of Members, we believe that the government has apparently little unfortunate hand in this. However, this law is also an example of what happens if everyone in this country, especially the legislative authority, does not respect what is enshrined in the law, which it may even have proposed. And not the last thing that happens when different lobbyists do. In fact, it is not only about writing something on paper, that something is being done, but there is also money in one form or another for this implementation. You have probably all understood that I want to say something about this famous label, which is the subject of the last amendment to this law, but it must be said at the outset that this label, with the content it now has, is not in accordance with any addition to this law, no article of this law and goes into the context of this law. That's why I've also talked about lobbying, otherwise we don't really know at the Social Democratic Party that there's been such content - I stress, the content that this label now has. The current law refers to a document which is called a traffic permit and a sticker, but this label is exclusively an indicator of the technical competence or efficiency or technical integrity of the vehicle and nothing else. When this last law, the last amendment, was adopted, we in the spirit of simplifying procedures and making it easier for people to do this procedure, which needs to be done to register the vehicle and obtain all the relevant documents, probably even in the spirit of the anti-biocratic programme, adopted a provision that the first technical examination of the vehicle should apply for three years. We were probably all excited about this in Slovenia, but as they say, the devil is in the details and in the implementation of this, if we do not stick to the content, the letters of the law and if each interpretation occurs in its own way, then problems arise. The fact is that in order to extend the marketing authorisation, it would be necessary to come back every year for what gives the document validity, this is a signature and also a printing press, and to do what is necessary, it is said, not a technical review, but the rest. But I don't know who then explained that the case took the form it took today. It is likely that there are also sub-laws prescribed by the Minister. And there's always a problem with law enforcement. This is where it came from, of course, what the citizens could feel. Whoever didn't do this doesn't know. I can tell you that I'm lucky that I had to do this last week, so that last working day wasn't here, that I saw what this thing looked like, and I have to admit that I was lucky. I'm gonna tell you where this is going, and I'm not gonna talk about my case. What have we actually accomplished by interpreting what we now have? It would be necessary, not only to harmonise our legislation with European directives, but we should change our nonsense, our problems, our problems, which we have, immediately, with this change that we have, but not wait a little longer, so that we can deal with it more fully. Now the only document was a traffic permit and, of course, it was necessary to obtain all the documents for it. That's what they say about payments. By amending this law, as it is now in force, we have taken the work of the administrative units. Not to take literally, "taken," but administrative units don't do that anymore. This work, i.e. these tasks, these procedures, we have given to the services responsible for carrying out the technical checks. However, the fact is that administrative units are the expositions of the state and these services are not. The fact is that when the ministry or the minister is, that is to say to me, it does not matter to the group that we made two documents out of one document, which is the right document, with a stamp and a signature. Unfortunately, however, this other document, which should be a document, does not have the contents of the document, because it has no stamp and signature. That's a fact. From one document that has handled the matter well and against which the European Union has nothing, even vice versa, we could say that we have complicated and received two documents that require that when people do what they want to do when they want to get what they need to, they spend more time, that it is essentially more expensive, that it is unfriendly to citizens and that it would not be the last time, even though I mention it, that is contrary to the law. I've already said that the law does not provide for such content of the label. This means that if someone else, not State authorities, performs the function that the State must perform in order for the State to give up any income in one way or another. It just takes some payment for each job. That's perfectly clear. And let me get this straight, so far over my thumb, and I'm not going to be too wrong, I'm going to do the math. The label costs 1,800 tolars. That's what you're saying, just to stick. In Slovenia, about a million vehicles are driving quickly again, as motor bikes now have this famous sticker. If we multiply it by 1 million, it comes close to 2 billion. This is money that would come directly to the state budget through administrative units in one way or another. Now, because of the incomprehensible procedure, this money is given to someone else. I'm not saying he doesn't perform this function, but he's given to someone. That's a fact. But the fact that it's a sticker, it's just a job for someone to stick it on your pole, with which you can have problems the next year, when you have to unstick it yourself, that's what they warned me and asked me where to stick it to, so that the next year can be easier to remove, you pay 1,800 tolars. So, this is about the ordinary smoldering of citizens. In addition, it is a matter of making the procedure of citizens more difficult. In doing so, it must be borne in mind that citizens are carrying out a procedure which the State has prescribed. And the state is still making it impossible here. However, if it were to pour money from one institution to another, it would not have been so good after all. The fact is, this procedure is unfriendly. I don't know if you asked the state councillor who's got an anti-biocratic program to worry about. With such interpretation as it was, I think the original law, as it was adopted, was kind. But what came out of this is not nice. If I don't take too long, I'm gonna skip something. That's all I'd say. The fact is, as long as all of this can be done in administrative units, the matter has already been a little lost and we have administrative units in Slovenia 58. That's what they say. There's so many places where this could've been done. And they prepared themselves well in the administrative units, because you could have done anything from insurance, tax, everything you needed to pay, and the matter was running. Now that you have transferred this to the services, the services are not as much as the administrative units in Slovenia. At least it turned out. There may be a number of such services at the headquarters of one administrative unit, but they are not available in all administrative units. This means that citizens must now travel significantly more from one end to the other, wasting time on the other of the smaller number of services authorised for such work, of course, therefore the greater crowd. The number of vehicles, not only does it not decrease or is the same, but it increases. And to make the accident even bigger, of course, we had it at the same time, but it had nothing to do with it, but it worked out that way, even with motorcycles, the crowd was really unbearable there. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that this is also such a label that it costs so much to glue - it is a citizens' mockery. Look, 1800 SIT for a job, so someone puts it on you. Stick it up for you, okay, let's be generous for 10 seconds. That means if someone were to stick forward, it would cost half a million dollars. I don't think there's one on the ground that would make that much in an hour. That's why we say that this is a mockery of people, of those who have to spend 50 grand a month with their family, and there's someone who could theoretically make half a million dollars in one hour because of some administrative regulation. It doesn't work together. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that a label such as now having a double function should be abolished, and this should be removed immediately. Of course, we agree that we cannot then lose the function that has now been assigned to it. We argue that it should be replaced by a more friendly document, with a more friendly procedure. And let me say that we have already had this in Slovenia. The procedure, as it was, was already relatively nice and was very effective, there were no unregistered vehicles on our roads, no vehicles that did not pay the toll. That's what the state says is getting what's state, which means the emperor got what's Caesar's. Nowhere in Europe has we been asked to change this process, and this has not been necessary. I agree that in other areas it is necessary to adapt, even if we take over the European order, if I lean on the debate of my predecessor, but such things have not been ordered us to change it, because it has been more effective in us than in European countries, but there is also a lot more effective in the judiciary in Europe, and if there is an accident with a vehicle that is not insured, the matter can be settled through the judiciary. But with us, we know we wouldn't be talking about the backlog. And such a procedure, which would be more kind, more normal, more efficient, where people would lose less time to do what the state imposes, we have already had such a procedure, we have already known it and it has been very effective. Therefore, it is not necessary to invent European directives, which are not such in this case, but should recognise the error. I say so myself, and we say so in our Group of Members: it is no sin to err, but it is a sin to persist in a process that is inanimate and does nothing but problems for citizens If it were ten people, it is something else, because it is a million vehicles, it is about so many people. And that's what this is all about. Therefore, we believe that this label should be removed long ago, immediately acknowledged by error, but after all - this should be done as soon as possible. In view of the fact that the Committee has decided as it has, and I have no doubt as to the outcome of the vote, I will also hold the Minister for the floor to have a comprehensive change prepared in a relatively short time. In the Social Democratic Party, we also want you to consider this famous label. I think that the solutions, such as friendly, have already been given and would have been significantly more effective. Of course, another is that if lobby plays a role in this, because otherwise we simply don’t know how to explain how easily we have gotten into such a mess. We do not claim that the government is incapable of being so incompetent that someone could bring it through water so eagerly that problems such as this label can be created. We believe there may be a lack of will. We therefore expect them to avoid such unforeseen and difficult procedures in the future, so that the country is more friendly. However, how will we decide whether or not to support this law, despite the fact that it is e-legislative, I think we will leave it to each individual to decide how he will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, distinguished Minister, representatives of the government! Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act seeks to amend the law of May 1998, of course following a rapid procedure, as this requires the extraordinary needs of the State. Thus, the proposaler, who also states that all proposed amendments and additions constitute a harmonisation of the law with the legal order of the European Union, which should have been made after our commitment by the end of 2001. The government also realizes that while modern European law is not good, it is already preparing the integrated changes that should have been on our tables this year. This time, therefore, it is a matter of rapidly putting out the fires in those places required by the European Union, and a little while longer around, and the fire in the home yard will wait a little longer. Road safety material is very difficult and complex and the situation is wide open. Therefore, the concerns about the rapid procedure are justified, as has also been shown on the parent committee, including among Members of the ruling coalition. One of the critics certainly deserves a technical inspection sticker, as already indicated and widely explained by a fellow Member. From the beginning, citizens have accepted it or received it with dissatisfaction, since it is not well thought out. In a lot of places, even at our end, the authorised technical transport organisation is not staffed and not professionally equipped, so citizens wait up to 4 hours. In addition, this novelty represents a cost for a citizen who is different from place to place. We are wondering how the government can introduce such novelties, which seem to be contrary to such a strongly declared "autobiocratic" programme. However, with the proposed amendments, the technical inspection label should also show insurance for car liability after the new one and that the owner paid an annual refund for the use of the road or that such reimbursement is exempt for the period of validity of the sticker. The provisions on tachographs, driving times, breaks, daily rest and breaks and weekly rest for bus, truck or group of vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes are also amended and supplemented. The proposal also adds a new category for driving light bicycles for which it is necessary to complete the age of 16 years. It is re-determined when the driver of the motor vehicle does not need to wear a helmet. The provisions on towing vehicles have been amended. The law lays down the conditions for the driver of the vehicle with the advantage or the escort and the way in which they are trained, as set out so far by the Minister of the Interior with his acts. An important novelty is the introduction of alcohol meters in the air and the new value of alcohol. A new penalty is imposed for the owner of a motor vehicle or trailer registered abroad which is in road traffic in Slovenia in contravention of the conditions for participation in traffic. The law introduces additional plates to change the identity of the vehicle: for vehicles carrying out safety checks, for vehicles of protected persons and for vehicles used in specific methods and means, and for vehicles used in the control of the national border. In those cases, the owner will have to check out the registered vehicle at the administrative unit and deliver the registration plates and attach a processing certificate to the application for registration or to the location where the vehicle is kept. Furthermore, the bill provides that the current Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council will be replaced by a national road safety organisation that will implement the obligations to be established by the national road safety programme and that municipalities will set up municipal road safety councils. The proposal also introduces the combined categories of vehicles, sets out the maximum allowed speed of 110 km per hour, which is newly determined for individual roads, and a number of other changes. I have listed only some amendments and additions, but do not think that they all mean compliance with the directives of the European Union. The government was certainly exaggerating. I don't want to say that she lied, which can't help her reputation and credibility. It has clearly been shown that, under the label of harmonisation of legislation, it changes and corrects a number of other things. Of the 70 articles that are changing, more than half of them have nothing to do with European Union directives. This has yet to be clearly demonstrated after, indeed in principle, the honourable fellow Kremjar has asked that any article that is being amended be made clear whether it is a matter of alignment with the European legal order or not. All of these articles, which are not bound by the Directives of the European Union, were amended by its proposal, the articles are simply deleted, which the applicant had to agree to, since he had no other choice. But perhaps this is the only way for the proposer to agree, however, that, for God's sake, he should amend and supplement the laws only in the part required by the European Union directives. We are not Members of Parliament, and we do not want to be subjects on the backs of which everything can be done. The principle is certainly a beautiful beauty, but in this case it is a great fear that such deletion of articles will result in a great degree of intransigence and inconsistency of the law. The matter is connected. And such cuts are not in favour of quality, which the secretariat also points out for legislation. We can only hope that this will be a good school for the government, as well as for Members, but such a way of working cannot and must not be a practice, because otherwise the laws will be worse, and our responsibility as legislators is too great to be able to afford it. Our Group supports all efforts to harmonise our legislation, but it is prudent and in mutual trust and cooperation. After all this, can we still talk about trust? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dusan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues. The proposal for a amendment to the Road Safety Act was tabled in the legislative procedure together with the proposal to be considered and adopted by the National Assembly in a rapid manner. In particular, by substantiating that this is required by the state's emergency needs. It is true that the Road Safety Act was passed in 1998 and that it is a good, modern law, but in practice it has proved to have some shortcomings and, above all, is not in line with European guidelines and directives. The draft law included not only the necessary alignment with the acquis or with the European Union's guidelines, but also other major changes and additions such as: the establishment of a national road safety organisation, the introduction of new procedures to identify alcohol, drugs and other substances in the body, and a series of other changes. In the LDS Group, we believe that these changes are, of course, necessary and necessary. We note, however, that the proposed solutions to the legislative proposal are too extensive to interfere with the existing legislation in order to be accepted quickly and that such changes require more reflection and time. It is for this reason that we have already decided on the Internal Policy Committee to support only the provisions of the Articles in the draft law, which are to comply with the guidelines of the European Union and the rapid procedure, also because pre-accession negotiations for full membership in the European Union are to be concluded in the autumn, and we have promised to bring this law into line with the directives of the European Union by the end of 2001. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the amendments of the Committee, which delete the provisions of the bill, which do not constitute compliance with the acquis of the European Union. Of course, we call on the proposer of the bill to prepare as soon as possible an integrated amendment to the Road Safety Act, which should include such rejected additions and amendments, and to prepare those changes that have proved to be inappropriate in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Wingo Jelinčič Tribali applied to the debate in writing, so I invite him to the floor and then Mr Branko Kelemina. Since Mr Jelinčič is not among us, I give the floor to Mr Branko Kelemini, who has applied in writing for the debate as a second. Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! I am somehow in agreement with those of you who have pointed out in the debate that you are not most pleased with this proposal for amendments and the completion of the road safety law that is before us today. I join this assessment, and I think that the very explanation and the reasons for the adoption of this law are somewhat superficial. Now I will not blame the Minister for this, but I think he has his own professional support, his own people who have worked on this professionally and so on, although now all the weight of these responsibilities and the obvious and the criticisms actually fall on the minister, but he has to make sure that his fellow workers succeed, they are also paid for it, and that is probably fine. In short, all the explanations you gave in this marriage are not supported by a number of references. I myself am very critical of your findings and the provision of certain solutions, and so on, because, in fact, with certain declarations or certain provisions, you may also be misleading the general impression that we have an effective and modern European law. Of course, in this debate, which won't be long, I won't kill you too much, I would just like to try to clear up one segment of this big set because you've just announced yourself that you're going to propose a new change in the future, sometime in September. I also do not agree with the fact that we are burdening the national assembly and all the working bodies twice in order to make some alignment with the European Community, which is not actually the case. Let me immediately say that if you have already written to coordinate these matters with the EU guidelines, this is not true, and then I will prove it further. Don't hold it! I am in favour of a different position, not of what some have advocated that Slovenia should not have such provisions in our regulations as are in force in the European Community. No, I advocate that they be exactly the same, not even that things are set up with us - that they are not at all identical to what is in the European Community, regardless of whether we are members, but we know that the directives adopted by the Council of Europe have a direct effect, by definition, if we are members of the European Community, on our legislation. In short, I advocate that our legislation be only comparable in full or as far as possible in all areas, especially in this area, to the legal order of the European Union. But all right, I'll talk about these things later. But look, there's something very disturbing about your explanation, which is very modest, I have to admit. Surely you did not process all parameters or explain exactly what this is all about. But here, for example, you have also explained that a new national road safety organisation will be set up and so on, which also means financial needs, which will be sought by other non-budgetary sources. That's what you said. So, okay. I agree: the world for prevention and so on - there will now be a different organisation. But here you tell us: with other non-budgetary resources. In the course of the financial assessment, you then put your previous statement or statement, or whatever you want to name it, on the head and you began to say that the funds from this new national organisation are provided from the state budget and that there will be an increase in public funds and so on. Now, I don't know, but now, why don't you just give me a little bit of an explanation for this combination and this double incoherence? Once you say that these will be non-budgetary resources, secondly you say that these will be additional funds from the state budget. Besides, you don't say with a single number what it's worth. Not a single number! You probably don't even know what this number represents. In this way, it is incorrect for the government to provide a financial assessment of the funds from the State budget. And I think there are enough of you employees there to define these things a little bit more precisely. And this should already be the secretariat and the committee, and we should all point out this and define these things more precisely. I don't know, this is where some practice has broken down, where in fact the government has been in recent times - I see in all laws - it simply doesn't provide an accurate financial assessment or at least around; not inadvertently, some estimates of additional resources from the state budget, public funds and so on so that all other services in the Ministry of Finance can then have, in advance, a review of what amount of resources will have to be provided for each area directly in the budget when adopting certain legislation. In short, I think that these assessments and this kind of inadequacy have come to the fore in all areas and I would like here to ask you to explain what this really means. What are the non-budgetary resources that you are now trying to finance these programmes and the tasks of the new national road safety organisation, and what does it mean that, on the other hand, you are claiming funding from the state budget. It's about that. Now, with regard to this alignment with the Directives or with the Council Regulation or with the European Community Directive in specific areas. You, of course, claim to be in line with European legislation. I will not say that in certain areas it is certain, but not in all areas. For example, one such area is certainly, for example, perhaps you want to change here then, following a new amendment to the law or a new amendment in September, but, however, one of the major illogicalities and also non-conformity is in the field of conditions for conducting driving examinations and different conditions and harmonisation of the law on road transport. There are such confusions here that this living world has not seen. And I also wanted these things to be coordinated somehow, but you absolutely rejected this as unfounded or somehow - I don't know, otherwise I wasn't on the committee, I wasn't following these things - but I see that you simply rejected the matter, you don't support, I don't know what was the explanation for these things. I will then initiate these things in the amendment, but things are extremely inconsistent and I don't know why you are setting, say, conditions for carrying out the driving test completely different conditions as they are in the European Community. Why? One such thing is, let's say that we demand that a candidate for a category D motor vehicle driver should only perform a driving test when he has been driving a category C motor vehicle for at least two years. This is not available to the European Community, but if he does, tell us where it says it. I have a directive here, it's the fifth directive, if I'm not mistaken, and these things aren't there. They have a whole series of categories of exams, including the D categories that you now have, I have a feeling, you have not taken them into account, you will say here, but we know even a number of others in the European Community categories of exams D, I will not list them right now. Look at the directive and you'll see what it's like. And I think we could introduce you. Why don't we do it now? When are we going to do this if you say we are harmonising the law with the directives of the European Community? Then it's not the kind of nonsense you wrote, like, in some marriage. For example, the directive says, for example, "that for at least one year the goods are transported by freight vehicles exceeding 3.5 tonnes". Our experts, of course, do not know where they came from, but they translated this, look at what they wrote: "at least one year," this is a direct translation, should follow, as I said before, but they wrote, "at least one year must work as a driver of goods in road traffic with a vehicle whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 3.5 tonnes". What does this mean to work as a driver of goods in road traffic? What kind of translation is that? This, please! And this is not coordinated, no one takes into account - due to the urgency of the National Assembly, the work of the National Assembly, the burden of everyone who is, no one sees these things. How such a translation can be translated at all - and even the secretariat of these things may not have been noticed. This is in the Road Transport Act, where additional conditions for bus drivers are once again laid down, and so on, which is totally inconsistent with the European Community guidelines. That's not true what's going on here! I would just like to ask you now to explain to me that I will not delay: first explain the financial situation to me, and how this will actually be aligned with the guidelines and when it will be done. And: will you then take into account what I am talking about. Because I can fully explain this to you, or to the national assembly or to the magnetogram, and also to you, if you don't happen to know how these things are written in the directive, but it doesn't make sense that I'm stealing your time. I would only ask you to tell me when this will be harmonised and whether you will take this into account that the conditions for carrying out the driving test in Slovenia will be exactly the same as in the European Community. That's all I want, absolutely nothing else. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Kelemina, if you agree as usual, I will give the floor to the other debaters, and then I will give the floor to the government representatives to answer your questions as well. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I have tabled several amendments, but I will not go into the interpretation of those amendments that require a higher sentence for certain offenders, because I think it is in the interests of the ruling coalition to obtain more money in the state budget. And I think if this ruling coalition is smart enough, these amendments will be accepted. That is why I will move on to the other amendments and, above all, I will stop at three, which are certainly extremely meaningful, consistent and regulate certain matters which, if I am not mistaken, have somehow escaped the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u187	Dear Mr Jelinčič, allow only the explanation that is necessary: we are in the general debate and I very much ask that Members and Members limit ourselves to the objectives of amending the bill and yet we are talking about these general terms, and then, in the context of the second reading, under each individual article that we have open and amendments, we are dedicated to each article and amendments. That is how we worked all the time and tried to follow the rules of procedure. Therefore, please, we are now in the stage of general discussion and you will by no means have the right to discuss the amendments you have tabled to each article. I beg of you, let us limit ourselves to the general debate. Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the kind explanation which I absolutely accept. In general, I would say that in the light of the amendment of this law, some errors have been made, some of the indiscretions that the Slovenian National Party is trying to correct with its amendments. And certainly one of these errors was that, in the 97th article, which deals with motorways and roads reserved for motor vehicles, the Ministry did not take account of the fact that police vehicles on this road and on this road sometimes have to stop for traffic control, for the purpose of repairing traffic accidents, because of such and similar matters. Similarly, the Ministry has forgotten that sometimes there is a need to remove an injured person from the scene due to a traffic accident and in this case the vehicles must be stopped, damaged and taken away. At the same time, certain people must step out of: either the police, or the rescue, or sometimes the fire escape, and, of course, heal both the injured and the material goods that can be either broken or crushed, scattered along the road or even in the fire. For this reason, we judge in the Slovenian National Party that it would be reasonable to add an additional point to Article 97 at the end of Article 18, or perhaps 14. - inter alia, that the prohibitions referred to in paragraphs 10, 11 and 13 do not apply to officers in the performance of official duties, to those persons who inspect a traffic accident and are involved in the same inspection, to workers who work in a designated construction site on a highway or a road reserved for motor vehicles, because there are sometimes repairs to be carried out, and in the current law and also in accordance with the amendment of this law, all those workers who work on the road are, in fact, illegal on that road or outside the law. With a good lawyer, it may be that when an accident occurs and someone overruns it, it will be the fault of the worker who walked on the road because it is not defined in the law. Furthermore, it is necessary to ensure that they have the right to enter and, I would say, that road crossings are also carried out by intervention groups and by healthcare professionals when they provide urgently needed medical assistance. And we must not forget the roadside inspection in the administration of the official duty and the workers of the road manager. Sometimes it is necessary to determine, for example, the thickness of the road due to certain traffic accidents previously occurring, whether to identify certain cracks of the unfinished road due to the insufficient content of certain components in the asphalt base and so on, and in this case it is necessary to ensure that these people are able to do so. Perhaps it was a mistake that happened to the Ministry - because some former ministers did not even have a driving test until they came to the Ministry of the Interior and were provided with it in one way or another. But I don't think it matters. I am therefore the judge of the Slovenian National Party that this matter, which is missing in this law, needs to be corrected and settled in accordance with the general direction of road safety. We also consider that two new articles should be added. These are ecological matters already being implemented in neighbouring countries, except in the southern neighbouring countries, of course. This is: if we look in Austria and Hungary, of course, in Hungary, because they do not have it regulated by law, but in Austria it is certainly not possible for a vehicle that drives or uses Austrian roads to be inadequately equipped or would have exhaust emissions outside the permitted categorical values. We therefore consider it reasonable to add a new 64.a. article which speaks of the Minister responsible for vehicle type-approval, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Minister responsible for the protection of the environment, issuing more precise regulations on dimensions, total mass and axle loads of vehicles, on equipment, equipment and parts of vehicles, and on the basic conditions to meet road transport installations, equipment and parts of vehicles, including emissions of substances and energy to the air. And a new 69a article that says [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u189	Mr Jelinčič, allow me, I know you want to explain the solutions you have proposed. However, I ask you very much to define, in the context of the general debate, the objectives that you are solving with these solutions, but not to read to us your changes that we have before us and that really belong to the second reading. Please, just the objective you are pursuing with the change, and then you will have an unlimited opportunity to discuss an individual article. That is how the present Rules of Procedure are written, and so, indeed, it is my duty to ensure that it is respected. Please, Mr. Jelinčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam President, for this warning as well. But I'm sorry, I was a little confused because my colleagues on my left are so loud that they're disturbing my thinking and I couldn't help but read it. Mr Jakič also says that I have forgotten the goal, but I have not forgotten the goal. I've got a lot of goals. One of them is to explain this law. It is therefore my view, as in the Slovenian National Party, that it makes sense to add a new 69.a., which allows or determines that vehicles which do not meet the prescribed requirements for equipment, equipment and so on, as well as emissions which are excreted in the air, both in the emissions of substances and in energy emissions, which includes sound, that these vehicles may be removed from the road or sent to the nearest mechanical workshop where these matters are disposed of. Both of the proposed last new articles or both amendments are in fact a European amendment. These changes have been implemented by the European Union for quite some time, despite the fact that some of these countries are explicitly in their laws, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] road safety, they are not indicated. [[...]] However, the European Union has some of these issues introduced into other laws, particularly those relating to environmental protection, which the police, of course, also know and respect and also respect on the road, where they are also carrying out checks and, of course, also sanctioning those drivers who do not comply with them. We are therefore convinced in the Slovenian National Party that, in addition to those criminal cases, these three changes, which I have been talking about, are of paramount importance, some will be explained by my colleague Barovic. However, I think that in terms of real road safety and as well as environmental protection for our small and beautiful countries, it makes sense for the Ministry to also take these comments into account and introduce them into the legislative proposal for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The debate between Members and Members to be discussed below is limited to 5 minutes. Mr. Kremjar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I am speaking because I would like to be corrected primarily to the applicant, to the Committee on Internal Affairs, which has worked very hard for two days to bring the matter to what is now being written, and not least to all the colleagues who have tabled the amendments. It's the next one. We have the Road Traffic Safety Act, already mentioned in 1998, which is a good law and I will not repeat what colleague Vukko has already said, but which obviously needs a lot of additions, changes, news. The proposaler's wish and the amendment's proposal were, of course, to do so now. At the same time, this coincides with the need to harmonise certain things with European legislation, with the so-called harmonisation with European directives because it is in a hurry. We all know that this is the case and that is why a rapid procedure has been proposed. At the same time, we spoke to the Committee on Home Affairs and found that there were too many changes - both by the government and by Members - so that this matter could go quickly. We anticipated that many issues, weighty ones, which some have already warned about in the debate, would open up and need solutions. Therefore, somehow, before we embarked on the hearing, the majority opinion has matured and, of course, the proposer has accepted this challenge to us and to write only those things that are necessary to be written down at this moment in order to harmonise with the European directives and nothing more. And that is why it is not - where the committee has decided against some amendments - it is not that it is substantively against these amendments, as it has not defined substantively against the Government's proposals which it has written, but it is simply what is necessary, just what is necessary at this point in time to harmonise deadlines and so on, let us do this; and this is some intermediate phase and we must take it as some intermediate phase. The promise of the ministry and the minister, which he reiterated today, is that all other things will be - and we all have many comments and many ideas on how to arrange these things for the benefit of people, for security, I will not list everything, but this will be done by October, that is the promise. I think that the Ministry and the Minister will also be committed to doing so and to submitting it. In this regard, the point of the matter is that all the criticisms that go to the proposer to the committee are therefore not justified from this point of view. Of course, they are justified, but if we want to adopt a comprehensive law today that will solve all the things that this law must solve. Then I'd agree with that. It's a quick procedure, which at this point only aims to accept this harmonisation and nothing - look, sometimes we really get involved in some of the thinking, probably reluctant. Today we do not accept this law for the first time. We speak many times as if we are now putting something new, we have nothing and now the world will collapse. We have a law in force, and here it goes, as we see it written, for changes to this law. And these changes should only be taken as what I said; since it was also initially said, they are changes that are exclusively the harmonisation of European legislation and everything else that the committee writes here that it has refused - not rejected for content, but for this reason. This seems urgent to me and, at the same time, to say more than anything else, it seems to me that this commitment of the ministry and the minister will be in the shortest possible time - and as we have heard, this time is October, so it was to hear promises - to be dealt with in one normal procedure, probably to deal with a proposal which will have all these proposals, as discussed by colleague Jelinčič, about which colleague Kelemina and all the others who spoke. For believe in us, too, in our Group of Members, and myself, we have many ideas, many comments that will need to be coordinated. Nobody runs away from them, we just move them away for a month or two because of an emergency, and so we introduced and adopted a quick procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that again. I'm replicating Mr. Kremjar. In fact, I can not only agree in principle, but I very much agree with what he said, really because I did not, because of the extent of the work that I have every day, and the burden that I have managed to monitor so closely the work of the committee that I know about these things that you have just said. I can take this for granted, and I agree with that, but the fact is that the whole proposaler does not follow what he suggested would actually do some effective general harmonisation with the rules of the European Community. That's not true. There are certain things that are not yet harmonised, we have warned, but there is something else. Look, it is precisely because the National Assembly is so burdened by a whole range of European legislation and all the other things that we must adopt by means of urgent legislation - I think, but given the professional services we have, and all our burdens of the National Assembly and the sub-dimension of the National Assembly against the Government, we are not obliged to propose so many changes and so many improvements, such as in the adoption of individual legislation and not in this law. This is not our job, please! If I could decide, I would actually say: the law is acceptable, we confirm it if not, but the comments back to the government, correct everything that is wrong, and come with such a proposal, with those comments that we have made. I wouldn't write any amendments if I were to decide on this in this country. The MP wouldn't be writing any amendments, but I would just say that's how it has to be done and let him do it, you have professional services for this. You've had enough. But we ourselves are simply dealing with these matters, and this takes up a lot of time. Members should, in my opinion, deal with other matters without having to study and the regulations of the European Community, various Council regulations, then existing legislation, I do not know what, the actual situation on the ground and so on. All this stuff. We need to take this into account, we need to know, but then there are so many amendments and so many comments to be written and made with this; I think that it is not appropriate and the National Assembly certainly has many other political important decisions to make and decide on them and to adopt some smart policy that is simply not the time. In short, I can agree with a great deal of work, and I will also take into account then when the amendments are adopted, and I also expect the response of the minister and the co-workers, I will not complicate things, and I hope that this will then be regulated in the autumn part as it should at least be. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister to answer Mr Kelemini. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u196	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kremjar for explaining the circumstances of accepting these amendments more clearly than I have succeeded. I think that this is now clear and that, in fact, with the consent of the proposer, the Committee has focused exclusively on the issues that are coordinating with the acquis of the European Union, what we have repeated several times. I would tell Mr Kelemini that we have examined this very carefully what directives these are. In particular, there are 11 directives, 5 in the field of administrative work, 3 in the field of social legislation, rest, rest of drivers, and 3 in the field of police work. All of these are then transposed into this text supported by the Committee, and this is what we propose to adopt at this stage, including the assurance that we will also come up with a more thorough revision. As regards your specific questions, the first concerns funding or the alleged or alleged diversity of claims in this regard. That's not gonna hold. If you look closely at each other's claims, one relates to the establishment or costs of a national organisation. In particular, this formulation is purely in the end, an assessment of the financial resources, the financial implications will be to ensure the operation of a new national road safety organisation. This is true and this will have to be ensured from the budget. If you are interested in details of this, we can provide information on how the costs for employees, premises and so on are. In fact, it is this aspect that the budget must provide. It is also non-budgetary resources, what you have correctly identified, but what is initially said in this section on operational work. In fact, something else is explicitly meant here, this is the money for the activities of the road traffic prevention and training world now, the sending of a national organisation, an activity that is mostly financed by non-budgetary means, that is, by sponsoring, donor and similar funds of insurance undertakings or those willing to invest in preventive activities. You will not be financed by budgetary resources after this and by the activities of the national organisation, but will be a basic logistics. So it's not about opposition, it's about each other. I hope that's explained. As regards your comment on compliance with the Directives as regards the conditions for D category D driving licences, you should be assured that the Directive does not require such strict conditions for two years of C category driving authorisation as the condition for obtaining D category driving licence. This is our arrangement, which the directive does not command, but allows. This means that the Directive allows national legislation to regulate the conditions for individual types of authorisations more stringently, meaning that this tolerance does not create a conflict between us and the directives, but rather a permit for compliance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u198	Thank you very much for your answer. Well, I agree with you that this is as you just said, well, for the first part as well as for the second part. But I still think that if we have to follow some comparison with the European Community, why do we have to make certain things even more harsh, even more difficult conditions, because this, I think, is an additional burden for our people - not only financially, but also time and psychologically. All these things are additional burdens for our citizens and I think if, for example, one European Community does not impose such additional conditions, and this, I think, are difficult conditions because - look, total nonsense is that first for category D you have to have category C, professionally perform this activity, after you have done D, and then, if you want to drive on longer terms, you have to drive at least one year to 50 kilometers. Well, it's not that bad yet, but the worst part is when we wrote, say, in one marriage, that you have to, see, if you want to, when you did exam D, at least one year to work as a driver of goods in road traffic - what I said before is the wrong definition, the wrong translation, which should be corrected once - whose maximum permissible mass is more than 3.5 tons. So, after you've fulfilled all the conditions, if you want to ride on more than 50 kilometers, you have to meet that condition. This condition is true for the European Communities. The European Community has these conditions, as I have now read it, that you must work for at least one year as a driver, or just drive a vehicle whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 3.5 tonnes, but does not have the condition that you have to have a C examination at least two years professionally. They don't have that. It seems to me that burdening our citizens is incorrect. And I would suggest - this is what you have here in my explanation or in the explanations by our parliamentary group - that you just try to think about these things, whether it's not enough for someone to have category D and based on this category when they're 21 years old, they can also have category C and D in all their nuances, as does the European Community. I would suggest that consideration should be given to this and that further consideration should be given to the preparation of the following amendments to the law. Only so much because it seems to me that it is unjustifiable to impose additional burdens on our citizens on certain requirements that the European Community does not require. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I think I can conclude the general debate. Can I? I am therefore concluding the general debate and moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Ladies and gentlemen, who are in your offices, I ask you to join us, because we will continue to make a difficult vote on the amendments that are on 49 pages, and of course on the ground that they are almost mostly about deleting articles, so to delete those changes that are not directly related to the adaptation of our country's legislation to the European Union. I would therefore ask that this fact, which the Committee has been meeting for two days, be taken into account and carried out with the necessary attention. We will therefore vote on the proposal for a decision, as I have presented it. We're voting. There are 46 of us present. The vote was 38 to 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 10.7.2002. However, you have also received amendments to the four groups of Members' positions that will be dealt with when they come. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to delete the article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 2 and the amendment of the Committee to delete the article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! The first vote was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall. I would like to ask for the necessary attention so that we do not vote twice as needlessly. Let's take a second vote on the amendment of the committee. Let's vote! There are 47 of us present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 6 and on the four amendments to this Article: under 1 is the amendment of the Government to amend the Article, under 2 of the amendment of Ambassador Lavrinc, under 3 of the amendment of Ambassador Kramberger and under 4 of the amendment of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. I think that the amendment under order number 1 would require a comment that, if this is voted on as a matter of amendment to the Article, they remain irrelevant. You're not here, so I'm supplementing the amendments. So if we vote on the amendment under 1, whose candidate is the government, they remain irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! The first vote was not successful. I would really like some attention. Procedural proposal. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u200	If you'll excuse me, as a procedural proposal. Can you please tell us again exactly what kind of review of the amendments we are looking at, because I think this is the problem right now. But I'm sorry if other colleagues don't know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u201	I'll explain again. We are working after the review of the amendments tabled, which date 10.7.2002. In addition, today's review, I think that after an hour we have also received amendments on the bench, which follow the secretariat's comments that - but we will talk about them then and I will also warn you when we get through the review to address these amendments. It is a review of the amendments with the date 10.7.2002. This is the second time we have voted on the amendment of the government, and amendments under order 2, 3 and 4 become irrelevant when adopted. We'll vote next time. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. 38 votes against 2. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted, paragraph 6 has been amended; the other amendments have become irrelevant. We are now moving to page 6 of the amendments. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting the amendment of the Committee to Article 7 to delete the article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 8 and the two amendments. Under number 1, the amendment of the Committee to delete the article, of course with a footnote, if adopted, will be an amendment under number 2, of which the applicant is Member Kramberger, irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article is lined; the amendment under number 2 has therefore become irrelevant. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 9 and the amendment of the Committee to amend this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. I shall put 10 articles and 10 amendments to this Article to the debate and to the decision. Under number 1, the amendment of the Government, supported by the Committee, under order number 2 to including order number 10, is the amendments of the Member of Parliament, Mr Jelinčič Trimenite, noting that, if the amendment of the Government under 1 is adopted, all amendments under order numbers 2 to 10 become irrelevant, as the amendment under 1 amends the text of the Article. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude and we move on to a decision. First, on the amendment under 1, which amends the text of the article. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the Government's amendment has been adopted, the article has been amended and the amendments from order number 2 to 10 have become irrelevant. And we're on page 15 of the amendments. I shall put paragraphs 11 and three of the amendments to this Article into discussion and decision. Under 1 is the amendment of the committee with the remark that, if adopted, the amendments under 2 and 3 of which the candidate is Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti are irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. Under two and three, they've become irrelevant. We decide on Article 11 as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. I am putting Article 13 and the two amendments to the debate and to the decision-making process. Under 1 is the amendment of the Committee to delete the article by noting that in this case the amendment under order number 2 becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment under 1 has been adopted and the article is deleted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 15 and the amendment of the Committee on the Elimination of this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. I shall put to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the Committee on the Deletion of this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the Committee to delete this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 17 has been deleted. I shall put Article 18 and the amendment of Mr Kramberger to this Article in the debate and decision. The Government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support it. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. The vote was 9 to 37. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 18 as a whole. Let's vote! The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. I'd like some more attention, please. There's enough of us in the hall. Second, let us vote on the whole article. Let's vote! The second vote was not successful either. For the third time, we will vote at 5.45 p.m. on Article 18 as a whole. At 5:45 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u202	For the third time, we will vote on Article 18 in full, and this will also establish the presence of the Chamber. Please, everyone who is nearby to come to the hall so that we can make a valid decision. This is the third time we have decided on Article 18 as a whole. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are under Article 19 and the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the committee, under 2 amendments to the Parliamentary Victory of Jechinčič noble. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We have decided since the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. The vote was 8 to 33. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are at the Committee's 20th and amendment to delete the article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 20 has been deleted. We are at the 21st Article and amendment of the Article Delete Committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 55 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are at the Committee's 22nd and amendment to this article to amend the article. The amendment government supports it. Anybody want to talk? I'm sorry. Within the time limit allowed, the Slovenian National Party's Group has tabled an amendment to Article 22. The amendment has not been reproduced yet, and so it is also - the amendment of the Committee is talking about amending the article and the amendment to the 22nd Article of the Group of Members is saying that Article 117, paragraph 5, is being amended by saying I think you should get an amendment in writing. [[...]] Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u203	Thank you very much. This proposal was made on the basis of Rule 204 of the current Rules of Procedure, which states: "In the swift legislative procedure, amendments in oral form may be proposed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u204	Mr Barovic, you are citing needlessly, because I said that the amendment was validly tabled, but the Members do not have it on the table, and my thought was, according to its length, only that we must wait for the Members to get it on the table. I still ask Members and Members whether they want the text of the amendment in writing on the table, or are they satisfied that the Group of Members explains the amendment? Since no one's against it, I'll read it myself first, and then I'll put it to the debate. The delegation shall submit an amendment to Article 22 in the following text: "Article 117, paragraph 5, shall be amended to read: 'Despite the provisions of paragraph 3 and 4 of this Article, the driver of a motor vehicle having more than 1.5 grams of alcohol per kilogram of blood or more than 0.71 milligrams of alcohol per litre of breathed air shall, in addition to a fine or imprisonment, be subject to sanctions for the termination of the driving licence in the category of vehicles in which he committed the offence, irrespective of the number of criminal points which he has achieved so far.' Explanation: "It makes no sense for a truck driver to lose his job as a result of a misdemeanor committed in a materially separate category of vehicle drivers." It is said that this amendment and the amendment of the Committee and Article 22 are entirely put to the debate. Mr. Barovich, please, then Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I know I'm repeating myself, but I'd like to say it again. See, someone - this amendment is also tabled at the request or request of the Association of Drivers and Engineers of Slovenia - someone who does his job properly as a truck driver or bus - will be very short and sharp and clear - has not drank anything, comes home, gets in the car, finds a company, sleeps too much, say on a moped, sleeps too much; the police find that he committed the offence. This deprives him of the right to drive any category. I'll give you a comparison - I'm sorry, I don't want to hurt anyone, I'll give you a comparison. It's the same again. The lawyer's driving, he's been busy, he's having a hard day, he's drinking something, he's also, he's also getting a cop, he gets a sentence. True, he will not be allowed to drive under this law, but he will be able to carry on his work. But his work as a lawyer, when he's sober, is also responsible, and I believe he's doing it as well, but he can do it. I also believe that the one who was drunk with a moped had more than 1.5 to drive home so that the next or the next day would be equally responsible on the bus. I want that comparison. It's a call, a profession, and it's the right thing for me to take if I'm a professional driver, a moped driving category, a personal car, it's right, it's right to take it away from me, but my profession will continue as consciously as it is all the time as a driver, say, a bus. We must not compare that bus driver if he drinks, drinks, and is a drunkard, someone else who does the same responsible work, so he's not a drunk, he's drunk once. I wish we could understand that. And this question was raised to me by colleagues from the Association of Drivers and Engineers of Slovenia, and that is why this proposal is repeated and repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz. In order, first Mr Lavrinc, then Mr Wolf and then - Mr Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. If all of this were said in detail, one could still agree. So something was released, perhaps because of ignorance, but perhaps to cover up the actual situation. By the way, what's this all about? Such a question has bereaved us a long time ago, so we have corrected the law on offences, made it possible for you to be extremely relaxed and from practice I can assure you that all who are surviving, not only professional drivers, but also this lawyer, who was first known to need a vehicle - in short, a butcher and I do not know who is all who have such a profession, which, of course, needs a driver's license and is for the first time caught up, almost generally achieves this tremendous easing of punishment. I can almost say, however, that drivers who are professionally involved in transport are driving and serving bread with it. That's why there's no need. But if someone, I'm going to say, "increased" once, twice or more, in such a case, of course, this extraordinary pardon of punishment is gone because the judge wouldn't buy that it was just a case that they caught him guilty. That's why I don't think we can support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I'm putting it down. It's more than that. Allow me, it is very difficult to distinguish among other applicants who want to replicate who to discuss. Mr. Wolf. I'm asking, you're giving up - thank you very much. Mr. Lenko? No, no, say, a replica or a debate? [[It's a debate.]] Thank you very much. Then Mr Barovic has the advantage. Mr. Gasparini, you wanted a replica. First of all, it's Mr Gasparini's turn for the replica - he raised his hand first, but I really don't know what anyone wants. Mr. Gasparini, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm replicating Mr. Barovich and asking him. Would you, Mr. Barovich, put your children on a school bus this morning, driven by a driver on a moped drunk by a cop? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. First of all, I'm going to say something to a good colleague, Mr. Lavrintz, that maybe he didn't understand me. I'm not going to call a lawyer, am I going to say an MP? Okay? Okay. Anyone who's ever joined with anyone and what they drink and drive. The cop gets it, stops it, and punishes him. Of course, I'll drive to work, or whoever it is, by train. But I'll do my job as an MP. I'll do it. I have a chance. The driver who was on the moped doesn't have the chance to drive. As for you, Mr. Gasparini, here's what I'm going to say. The question is a beautiful question and the answer, of course, is clear: no. But clearly not if I knew that drunk driver was driving a bus. But I know a lot of people, and I'm a member of the chauffeurs and auto mechanics association, and at their meeting, they hang out and get together and what good they eat and what good they drink, and they come in private, with their cars. And I don't know why I should blame them for everything they're gonna have to do and do in their lives. Every man must have his own consciousness of what he can and can't do. I just want you to understand, though, that despite the sentence being imposed, I am against alcohol, if it were a bill for reduced rates, being "for". However, someone can carry out all the other professions, including fair and honest, but I respect my fellow police officers, and they have ever had a drink. They used to drink, too! But because they're going to be private if they stop and write that they were over 1.5, is that why they're not going to do their job as cops? It could happen. It's not necessary. I don't advocate alcoholics, drunks and so on, because I don't know why you're so understanding me. There's a lot of profiles that can be unprofessional. But he was caught on a moped, or he was a bus driver or a private cop, or he's a police officer with the road police. I just want to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jelinčič and then Mr Lenko's debate. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lavrinc spoke of the extraordinary pardon of punishment. And because that's where it happens, almost as a rule, it happens that someone's fine is forgiven. In these words, he said that there is a certain discretionary right of someone who forgives someone and does not forgive someone. Depending on how close someone is to someone, how someone you know is to someone you are related to, or in any other way. You might also think of a financial relationship when someone has received a matter in his pocket or at a table or under a table, in his hands or something like that. Compared to the drivers who, say, can drive on a moped at night home slightly awakened and drive a bus, I would tell Mr Gasparini that school buses have morning controls, where it is necessary to blow into the apparatus that he probably knows as a doctor, if not, but we can show him how it works, maybe he can blow it, and in that case that man will not drive a school bus the next morning. And now, if we go any further, or this means that in the next amendment to any law not only on road safety, but on transport safety at all, we will ban that one who is drunk will drive once by accident in the evening moped to be banned and taken away from him by, say, long-distance captain's license, because it is also a means of transport, because it also drives passengers and so on. Or will we then go to the next stage and ban all aircraft pilots from driving because it once happened that, by chance, the moped was slightly vacated to drive home. Please! You go to some stupid extremes that limit to - if, Mr Gasparini, you know what larpurlarism is, or if even a little deeper, to the Dadaist variants of Slovenian legislation. I think it makes sense and opportunistic for people whose profession is based on serious and responsible work, such as driving buses, driving trucks, driving public transport, to let them drink sometimes when they drive home. Mr. Gasparini, I don't know if the school bus is driving on Sunday, maybe at your place or sometimes you thought it was a certain time, that the school bus was also driving on Sunday, but I'll tell you, if someone drinks on Saturday night, they get on a bus, not on a bus, on a moped, they drive home, for sure they won't be driving a school bus on Sunday morning. And you as a doctor know that a certain amount of alcohol, unless it's toxic, goes away for at least 24 hours if it's not too much of course, and I said if it's not so toxic that there's a fatal conclusion to certain things. But I think what you're doing here is nothing but proof that you want to put total police control over certain segments. I don't know why you're doing this. I really don't know. And I really don't know how you're going to get in front of certain drivers whose families are going to be on bread, because you're going to put them on bread. You're gonna take everything they're working for. And Mr Lavrinc, please, you've already had something to drink, and I've had something to drink before, and that's why we haven't done any trouble. But someone's gonna have to cut off the bread and cut off all the profit options.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u214	Dear fellow Members, the four of you have been informed of the replicas. Before you do so, allow only the technical explanation of the amendment of the parliamentary group. If the amendment we have in the review is adopted, we will not vote at all because the amendment of the Committee fully replaces the text, it is said, that the article attacks and amends it. I ask so kindly that you are rational in your deliberations, because, of course, the topic is well known to everyone and I fear that we can discuss it more than is necessary. No, just a technical explanation I haven't given yet, that's all. Replicas in the next order. First of all, Mr. Partlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u215	Yes, it is clear that a recovering alcoholic with a 30-year abstinence course is not a qualified interlocutor for this matter. Even in a way, it is risky if my colleague Victory tells me that I would defend either the police state or that I have some stupid cases if I accidentally disagree with him or with my colleague Barovic. I'm willing, say, to listen to up to 50 percent of the arguments you're saying. But for example, I'm going to give about the same comparisons back. Of course, I would expect a professional driver to know that he must never get drunk in any vehicle because he is a professional. And I think he knows this legislation, the limitations and the possible consequences better than someone who's barely passed the exam and is driving. I'd expect him to have a higher standard and some sort of pattern. That everything is human, of course, it's clear. A discretionary right is a discretionary right. It's been written in a law from three years to five years. I don't think there's anything at stake here. I'll ask you the other way around. Like, out of his hobby, fishing. As a professional fisherman, he knows that during this protective period, he must not fish for this species because it is just bearing fruit. And this was done by two in the company Fish in Maribor, and in the afternoon it was a hobby to hunt and fish in the forbidden - during the protective period of such fish. So now that he's been doing this as a hobby, it's simple. Or a hunting guard who walks around with a rifle and shoots glass dogs, some beast, and this afternoon at home with a gun and shoots someone. And now he could continue his profession. It just seems to me that this argument, which is human in any way, does not really hold back in my eyes. And I don't find the note by my colleague Maria Gasparini a bit funny. It would be tight for me to put a kid on a school bus on Monday night who fell drunk with a moped. It'd be tight for me. And, as I'm told, these arguments seem a little bit on my broken feet.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz. You gave up the replicas earlier. Thank you very much. Mr. Gasparini, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u217	Thank you. On bread, you say, families. Look, these drivers are less smart. We know the Slovenians' relationship to wine, we all drink it. Is it true? We're not defending anyone from drinking because you can't defend him, except at the inn by the age of 15 or 18. Then he can't drink this chauffeur. I mean, he can't act after he drinks. Let him take the train home. Let him take a cab. You don't have to get on a moped and get drunk in the car.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u218	Then I see the replica, Mr. Kremjar and three more hands for the replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u219	Well, the word is the most seductive girl - obviously. And that's the word we all understand, and that's the word alcohol. Look, we've had far more important things than this in the articles so far, and we have consciously gone over this because we have already spoken and somehow decided that we will only talk about a matter that is related and related to harmonisation with European legislation. Of course, we are not doing this, and on the first opportunity, which is such that it is wonderful to discuss that we all know about it, the Hamlet is spreading and I don't know what kind of debate it is. I propose and please: let's put an end to this and give what we wanted, as well as on the board of directors, harmonisation with European legislation, to do. All of these matters, which will be much debated, should the government come up with a proposal to be discussed in October, because there are at least 100 to 130 of these in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u220	Thank you very much for your good wishes, Mr Kremjar, but the Rules of Procedure do not give me the slightest chance not to have a final discussion of this amendment as well. Replica, Mr. Barovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u221	It's a replica to everyone. Look, they've all gone to another area. Do I really have to say that the criminal provision specifies that if the driver of the truck and bus, if he has at least 0.0001 grams of alcohol in him, the criminal provisions are clear? Banishment. He won't ever drive again or, I don't know, he won't drive a bus or a truck for a long time. Penal provisions for truck driver, bus - these categories are clear. Sure! But then this man is another man, when he sits down, I don't know, I'll give the comparison again, for a moped. It's about categories, it's not about alcohol. It's only about the categories. What's wrong if we write that punishment - right to be punished - in the category in which he committed the offence. We know that D, E, and other categories, that he will never do his job again. And that's right! If he's drunk driving a bus, never let him run it, let him be responsible for his family. Yeah, but that's all set. Why punish him in particular? Especially as a private. Why should I be punished in Parliament for committing a private offense, I don't know, a fight with someone? What do I have to do with Parliament if I have a private fight with someone? Like what? Like what?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u222	If you beat up an MP.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u223	What's his connection? I mean, no, I'm not gonna fight here, I'm not gonna argue, I hope I have and use the cultural word. I say again: I advocate the association of drivers and mechanics, I said, sanctions for alcohol in the categories of trucks, buses are clearly defined. And that's the right thing to do. Let the sanctions be clear for each category individually. For each category separately. But I will be particularly pleased, and it really has nothing to do with this law, and if there are such restrictions on drugs, then look at your children, where they go and what they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Jelinčič, then Mr. Petan. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Madam President. I was talking about a moped earlier. And today we are talking about amendments to the Road Traffic Safety Act. Road traffic also includes "bicycle" or a bicycle per home. Does that mean even if a cop gets someone drunk on a bike he can't drive a bus? This is also a means of transport. And if we continue, I ask Mr Partlich, what's the difference if someone drives, say, with a "bike" drunk home or walks home drunk on Saturday night. What difference does it make if the same bus driver goes slightly derailed with a bicycle home or if he goes totally "burned" after all four on Saturday night at the same time at home? What's the difference, Mr. Partlich? It's a starting point. It's the starting points we have to stick to. If someone commits an offence in a particular category, that category shall be deleted. Someone, Mr. Gasparini said before that you should never drink anything. That's not true. And he said: pilots never drink. That's not true. The rules tell us exactly when a pilot can drink and when he can't drink. And when he can drive and when he can't drive a plane. And don't speak up and don't be any more papal than the Pope, please. Where are we going? Where are we going? And how will you look at yours, for example, colleagues, when you go into society there will also be a driver among them, when you "get" him to the end, and he will drink a cocktail next to you, because otherwise you will report him to be taken away from him. Please. How we are! But there's nothing human about you. Remember, you'll take care of the families. And yet every man ever gets drunk. He doesn't have to be drunk all the time. Because if someone's drunk all the time, he'll get high when he's driving the bus. However, if he drives a bike on Sunday night, slightly atrocious, I repeat, which is also a means of transport, which is a means covered by this law, you will punish him and you will take away his livelihood. The same man or someone else who's gonna roll down the hill and go to his house, drunk like a cork, that's all right. And here I ask Mr Partlich to explain this difference to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the replica, I would also like to give an explanation to Mrs Palhaltinger, a representative of the secretariat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. In fact, the Secretariat is obliged to draw attention to two things in this proposal, namely, the proposed solution was actually the subject of a decision already under the two amendments to the Road Safety Act, which was rejected by the National Assembly. Here, however, I would like to give just this warning that the proposed solution is not actually touching all the articles where, in fact, sanctions are defined in this respect in the applicable law. I would like to say that, from the point of view of compliance with the legal system, such an approach is actually questionable, since the Act on Offences sets out the substantive framework which provides that the penalty for the termination of the driving licence shall be pronounced for all categories and not only for the offence committed. That is why I would like to draw attention here to the legal question of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I ask Members and Members who are still reported to speak, do they insist on their replicas and discussions? I ask you kindly to raise your hands to those who insist. Mr Petan has the replica, then Mr Lenko's debate. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u229	Thank you. So I stopped by for a very specific thing. On the contrary, Mr Gasparini has given an example, which I am sure is very wrong. In fact, he introduces the principle of some incorruptibility. If you once "bix" it in one thing, then we hit you, and the case is closed -- and I'll explain it to you -- criteria are, of course, set by someone. We can also look at this from the other side, Mr Jelinčič has mentioned this a little bit. It is said - a particular case mentioned by Mr Gasparini - that is, a bus driver, if we get him on a motorcycle, then we take his exam according to the rules and, of course, he must not drive a bus. But whoever's on the bike is drunk, but he's drunk by the book, and he'll be able to keep working. This is what bothers me because we have two categories, the consequences are terribly different, but the causes are exactly the same. That is to say, we have determined the category that you're drunk by the rules and nothing happens to you when you're on a bike or on foot; but when you're on a motorcycle and you're drunk, you can't be drunk by the rules, and they take everything. It's not that simple. That's what I'm trying to tell you. I don't advocate being drunk - if you're a professional, you have to be responsible. But it's not that simple and black and white, because you're setting two different categories that you might define and talk about some impeccableness. And that bothers me - that someone should be spotless, and if you accidentally "bixed" him, then we'll hit you as hard as we can. That's why I'm replicating you, otherwise I agree with you, but the thing is not as black and white as you wanted to show it. That's the only reason I stopped by. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Lenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Madam President. It may seem a little strange that after three months I will first appear in such a discussion. Initially, I have to say that I am an active member of the Association of Drivers and Auto mechanics of Slovenia over 20 years. I think the legislator here or I'd rather say what the Ministry of the Interior doesn't want to hear from this organisation, which is the first to fight alcohol, is the first to do so. But back here - sometimes there was the subtraction of the category in which they got them or for that measure was pronounced - but this is where sometimes great tragedies come from. It bothers me little, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, because the proposal did not come from the right side when we all might have taken it together with a little smile. However, I say that we must listen to this, that these are serious things and that there are tragedies in the back. Mr. Jelinčič gave a comparison, and I'll give it a little differently. They're two neighbors in a mountain with mopeds. Okay. Celebrate some holiday. They come back, they stop them. One's a pilot, one's a chauffeur. The driver won't be able to drive the truck again next week with the grammosis. The pilot will be able to drive 300 people with the plane. I mean, if we consider all this and the "weight" lady, it's not that simple. I know that this proposal will not receive support today. Only, honourable Members, let us consider, perhaps in the autumn, when it is fully accepted that we will also resolve this matter. And I would suggest that everyone thinks for themselves a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We will first decide on the amendment of the Committee to article 22 in the review of the amendments with the footnote, as I have made it clear that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Group of Members will become irrelevant. We therefore decide on the amendment under order number 1 in the review. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. It's 37 votes to 13. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 22 has been amended. The amendment of the parliamentary group thus became irrelevant. We are with Article 23 and the amendment of the Committee on the Deletion of this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! The first vote on the amendment was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall. I would ask for so much attention and express my wish to try today, however, given that we are starting tomorrow at a completely different point in the agenda, to try to vote on these amendments. Let's take a second vote on the amendment of the committee. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are with Article 24 and the amendment of the Committee on the Deletion of this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are at the 25th Article and amendment of the Article Delete Committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are with Article 25 and the amendment of the Committee on the Deletion of this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are with Article 26 and the amendment of the Committee to amend this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. Excuse me, just a moment. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 26 has been amended. We are at the Committee's 27th and amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We're at the 29th and 3rd Amendments. Under 1 is the amendment of MP Lavrinz, under 2 is the amendment of the board, under 3 amendments of the government. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Secretary, please. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u233	Yes, if I am not mistaken, the amendment under order number 2 should be rejected, because then we have a new Article 29a, where we have similar content and it is a matter of alignment with the Secretariat's comment. And now I'm asking the government if my findings are correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u234	Mr. Bulgarian, please. Dear government representatives, as agreed during the break, you said you would withdraw the amendment under order number 3. You do not support the amendment under 2 and 1 because it is not a matter of alignment with the guidelines of the European Union, which means that the basic text of Article 29 remains in force and then you invite Members and Members to adopt Article 29a proposed by the four groups of Members. Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under Articles 1 to 29. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. The vote was 8 to 38. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. The vote was 10 to 33. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment under 2 didn't get any support. I ask, Mr. Secretary, whether you withdraw the amendment or vote on it. Under order number three, it's the government's amendment. If you insist on the basic text, please withdraw. [[...]] Thank you very much. The amendment under order number 3 has been withdrawn. Let us vote on Article 29 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. The vote was 43 to 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Now, I ask you to look at the amendments that are not in the review. This is the amendment of the four coalition groups, which is an amendment to the new article 29a, which is coordinated, as you can see from the explanation, with the comments of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. Anybody want to talk? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups for the new Article 29a. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. The vote was 43 to 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article 29a have been adopted. Now we're going back to page 29 of the review. We are under Article 30 and the amendment of Mr Lavrinc to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. The vote was 10 to 30. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the 31st Article and amendment of the Committee to delete this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 42 votes against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are at Article 32 and the amendment of the Article Delete Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are at Article 33 and the amendment of the Article Delete Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are at Article 35 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are with Article 36 and the amendment of the Article Delete Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are at the Committee's 37th and amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. Could I have your attention, please? Secondly, we vote on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are at Article 38 and the amendment of the Article Delete Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are under Article 39 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. The Government and the parent working body of the amendment do not support it. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 18 votes against 34. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 49 of us present. 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are at the 40th and amendment of the Article Delete Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are at the Committee's 41st and amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. I'm asking for your attention again. Secondly, we vote on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are at the 42nd and amendment of the Article Delete Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present. 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are at Article 45 and the amendment of the Article Delete Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are with Article 46 and the amendment of the Article Delete Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're going through the decision-making process. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are at Article 47 and the amendment to delete the article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are with Article 49 and the amendment of the Article Delete Committee. He wants someone to discuss it. [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Just a moment, please. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're at the 50th. Three amendments have been tabled. Under 1 is the amendment of the committee, with a note, since it is a deletion of the article, if the amendment under 1 is adopted, they become amendments under 2 and 3, irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The article is lined up, so both amendments have become irrelevant. We are at Article 51 and the amendment to delete this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 41 votes against no one. The vote was 41.) [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're at Article 52. We have two amendments. As a result of the non-admission of the amendment to the 50th Article of the same Applicant, the amendment under order number 2 has become irrelevant. This is how we decide only on the amendment under order number one. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at Article 53. We are discussing and deciding only the amendment under order number 1 because the amendment under 2 has become irrelevant due to the non-admission of the amendment to paragraphs 50 and 52. Someone wants to discuss the amendment under order number one. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u235	If you'll excuse me, I don't know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u236	I won't allow it, Mr. Barovic. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u237	Yeah, I can call it procedural. As far as I can remember, I apologize to my colleague — he is not — to the chairman of the committee that we also deleted paragraph 52 on the committee. I'm sorry. I think it's in my head that we deleted paragraph 52 on the board. It's different here. That's all I'm gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u238	Thank you very much. We'll check your statements below. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are at Article 55 and the amendment of the Committee on the Deletion of this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 55 is deleted. Mr. Barovich, an explanation. It's okay, just like we did. The decision on the committee was not what you thought it was. We are at the Committee's 56th and amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 47 of us present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Dear Members and Members! We have before us amendments to the Committee on the Elimination of Articles 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 and 64. The Committee's proposal could also be announced to propose to the national assembly that the articles be deleted. If anyone does not object, I propose that one vote should be used to delete Articles 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 and 64. So the amendment is - all the articles I listed are deleted. Okay? We are therefore voting on the proposal to delete these articles. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 39 votes against 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I find that Articles 57 to 64 have been deleted. However, the Rules of Procedure allow us to delete the chapters in full, which also means several articles at once. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new 64. a/ member of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group. First Mr. Jelinčič, then Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think the amendment to the new 64th a/ article makes sense. In fact, this is a European category, as I have already said, some European countries already have it, some not yet, but they are introducing it. This is about environmental protection, which is one of the most important issues, both in Europe and in the world, following the signing of the Kyoto Agreement. We must be aware that with a new 64. a/ article, which may have "strikes" outside this law, we introduce restrictions in areas that contaminate and enable or prevent safe driving, and at the same time a safe life along the roads. The fact is that this law really limits foreigners entering our country, so it seems to me that in this case there will be no support for this new 64. a/ article, because the ruling coalition must always nod and kneel before them. When domestic pressure is needed, we will then press them with all our might, as has been proven before, in the previous debate on the amendment proposed by colleague Barovic. Nevertheless, once again, I say that the amendment makes sense; it makes sense to introduce a new Article 64 a/ and I want the introduction of a new Article 64 a/ to be supported by fellow Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, you want the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u241	Thank you, just for a little while. I do not object to Mr Jelinčič's content proposal, but given that this is not an explicit requirement that we must adhere to within the European Union, we commit ourselves to taking the suggestion into account, in preparing a proposal for a more complex law in October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Could you withdraw Mr. Jelinčič's amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u243	We can back off. The Slovenian national party withdraws this amendment and, if you please, Madam President, the next amendment is on the same subject [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] and if the Secretary of State with the same interpretation also excuses the withdrawal of the new Article 69 a/ a, we also withdraw this Article, but I would ask the Secretary to say so in the minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u244	In the record. Please, Mr. Bulgarian.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u245	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u246	Thank you very much. So, the amendment to the new 64a is withdrawn. We are with Article 65 and the amendment of the Committee on the Deletion of this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. In your review of the amendments, you have to read Article 66 of the Government Amendment and the amendment of the Committee under Article 1 and 2. In coordination with the secretariat, the four members of the Group tabled an amendment to Article 66, which fully regulates the text of Article 66 by means of a new text. We will first decide on the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 66, which replaces the text in its entirety. In this case, the amendments we have under 1 and 2 will become irrelevant. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We therefore decide on the amendment of the four groups of Members. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the text of the new Article 66 have been adopted. Both amendments in the review have become irrelevant. The amendment for the new 69th Article was withdrawn by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. I'm sorry. We still have an amendment to Article 68 to delete this. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We have two amendments to Article 70, and we also have an amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 70, of which there are four groups of Members. Under number 1 is the amendment of the whole Article Amendment Committee, under 2 is the amendment of the Government, under the 3 amendments of the Government. If the amendment under 1 is adopted, the amendment of the government under 2 is irrelevant. I am putting to the debate all three amendments, the amendment to the amendment of the committee of the four parliamentary groups, which we will first decide on, and then the amendment under 1 if adopted, becomes an amendment under 2 irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, first of all on the amendment to the amendment of the four groups of Members. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the committee under number one. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted, the members of the amended and the amendment of the government has become irrelevant. We're on page 48 of the review. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, we'd be done working on this law, because we only have two more amendments. Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate the amendment of Mr Janc for a new article 70a. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 10 votes against 35. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are at Article 71 and the proposal of the Committee to delete this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present. 39 votes against 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. And also the last amendment for the new 71st member of the Council. The government and the committee don't support him. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. The vote was 12 to 29. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article have not been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the decision on the remaining articles. There are 49 of us present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. I'm moving on to the title debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, the amendments to the large articles were adopted. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. [[No, no, ……]] I therefore ask the representatives of the secretariat whether there may be a breach of mutual compliance with the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We can therefore move on to a full decision on the proposal for a law. Vote explanation, Mr. Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u247	Thank you. In the introduction, I said what was the opinion of the Slovenian National Party's Group on this law. But I didn't finish, so I said our position, because I can't, we haven't even accepted it. On behalf of the party, I will only say that we are happy that the Ministry and the Minister and the Secretary of State have promised to take some important decisions into account. And that's all I'm saying, so I'm speaking for myself. I said a lot in the introduction. The company of drivers and auto mechanics asked me because I am a member of the people, I failed. A lot of people asked me to try and break the stickers. We didn't make it here either. That is why I say I will oppose acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-10-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u248	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 55 of us present. The vote was 41 to 8. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and, above all, our secretariat very much for their cooperation. Thank you all very much. Allow only the following notice. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we begin by reading items 17, 18 and 19 of the agenda, this is a proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 and related points under 18 and 19. Thank you so much again and good night.
