ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I called on it on the basis of Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please, all those who enter the National Assembly after 2 p.m. do not interfere with his work that has just begun. They apologized to the following colleagues: Barovic, Dr. Brejc, Cimperman, Čeligoj, Dr. Gaber, Horvat, Jelinčič, Kacin, from 17:00 on today will not be present with colleagues of Kavtičnik, otherwise there will be no colleagues of Malovra, Mamić, Peterle, colleague of Simšičeva, Sušnik, Spindler, Trofenik, mag. Visik and Comrade Zampernik. Comrade Visjak is here; we have received your apology and will remove it, and we will greet you among us. I have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, Prime Minister Drnovska to the 1st item, the Ombudsman to the 26th item and the representative of the Council of Justice to the 34th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone today. We will move on to the agenda of the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. May I have your attention in the hall, please? The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and you received it on 15 this month. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that I have not received proposals for the withdrawal of the agenda item within the time limit, but I have received proposals for an extension of the agenda. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to extend the agenda by considering the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate tax; this is an urgent proposal. Dissemination proposal - please for peace in the hall! - you got on the bench. Does the chairman want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. This will move us to the first vote today, to decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. 48 present, 39 for and one against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda with this item has been adopted and that this bill will be considered as the 25th item of the agenda on Thursday, 28 November 2002 as the last item on the agenda of this day. I have no other proposal for enlargement. This allows us to move on to a decision on the agenda as a whole. Excuse me? Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr President, I would suggest that the law on graduation be transposed into the next meeting or that a mother's working body be re-established and treated in the second reading, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 13 of the Law on Self-Governmental National Communities, which states: "When national authorities decide on matters relating to the situation of members of national communities, they must obtain the opinion of self-government national communities in advance." Since this has not happened and because the issue addressed by this law is of paramount importance for the position of the Italian national community, I propose, as I have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u3	Comrade Battelli, the withdrawal was already mentioned, no one made a written proposal, then I went to the extension. So the possibility of such a proposal is already over. Please, Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you. Mr President, I have just negotiated these things with some of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, while these withdrawals have passed, but I am asking for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u5	Comrade Battelli, I propose that you highlight your position at the beginning of the discussion of the point and propose to withdraw to one of the following meetings; this would be a procedurally clean situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the basis of Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that the 29th item of the debate on the reply of the Minister of Economy, Dr Tee Petrin, to the question of Mr Andrej Bajuk's question concerning the awards of the member of the Board of Administration, d.d., be moved from Friday to tomorrow afternoon at the same time as the questions raised by Members. In fact, it is the answer to the question. Now we're taking too long. Let me base it. We are already taking too long to discuss such important matters. Other parliaments have a so-called government statement to that effect. This is such a serious case, such an intrusion into the property of the State, that in this case it is certain that a party in an arrangement in another country would request a statement from a government which is possible immediately and immediately a general discussion at this point. And such discussions must certainly be attended by the Prime Minister in every democratic country. I expect Prime Minister Drnovšek to sit here tomorrow because he is probably not as indifferent to the serious cases that have occurred in his government because it is a government matter. And I ask that, on the basis of Article 65, this item be placed on the agenda tomorrow at half-four, within the time when the questions of Members are usually raised. And I am sure that this is such a serious matter that national television will also show some relation to the fact that it will also tolerate the continuation of the questions sent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u9	My colleague Jerovšek, just before the meeting, I consulted with the Vice-President and Vice-President on a proposal of a similar nature, also made by colleague Podobnik. He also refers to the first paragraph of Article 65 and proposes that the proposal for a law on parliamentary control be moved. Let me draw attention here to the fact that the College of the President of the National Assembly sets a timetable precisely for everyone to be informed before the meeting of the National Assembly on when the agenda will be. So it's the college's job to set the agenda so we can stick to it. There is, of course, Article 65. Today, we can begin with the practice that at the beginning of the session the National Assembly will change the plan adopted by the College. But with this, we will bring in the predictability we want, of course, a stranger. I don't think that would be good from the point of view of the National Assembly. Of course, I will put both proposals to the vote if you insist on them. This is a legitimate proposal in accordance with Article 65. We just need to be aware of the sequences, Comrade Jerovšek, which we bring into our work with this. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u10	Mr President, you are referring to consonants that are bad for the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u11	No, because of the predictability of the National Assembly. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u12	so that we decide and talk about this general debate in one month is already so bad. [[...]] We are doing this on the basis, in my opinion, of a disability policy which is very disabled at this point because it does not allow for normal procedure in Parliament. And now you are also referring to what has been concluded on the basis of this College Disability Rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u13	Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u14	I can't accept this, I really can't accept this argument. You give very bad arguments, arguments that go to the detriment of this country. And please, I hope that the Members will be at least as responsible. We voted this last time that this debate is necessary, so that we can also do it within a certain period of time with the participation of the Prime Minister of course. Let him stand up for such unbearable things or let him put them away.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u15	Comrade Jerovšek, I have given you my word, although one might think that it should not be, in order to clarify some issues that are important not only for today's decisions but also for the work of the national assembly in advance. You have the right to invoke the first paragraph of Article 65, and we will vote on this, as well as on the proposal of a colleague of Mr Podobnik concerning the schedule. However, I suggest that we not forget that such practice could mean that this predictability, which we have achieved with the college meetings dealing with the setting of dates and hours, is hereby eliminated. Well, I will put this proposal to the vote. Comrade Jerovšek proposes - please, colleague Jerovšek, that, if I understand correctly, 29th point, right? - 29th point moved to tomorrow - tomorrow at? - tomorrow at 3:30. Just a minute. We'll see if that's even possible, that's not that easy. So tomorrow afternoon - this could be a bigger decision, because then we'll have to move the clock. So, colleagues and colleagues, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 65, colleague Jerovšek proposes that we move the 29th item of the agenda to tomorrow afternoon. This decision shall be put to the vote. Please make up your mind. I'm calling off the vote. I didn't notice a hand. My friend Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u16	I will explain why I will vote against such a proposal
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u17	There is no explanation for the vote in procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u18	Oh, it's procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u19	Just a moment, please. Comrade Jerovšek, when I gave you my word, even though I said that it was not necessary to get it, no one answered. And now I ask you to allow me so much that we can carry out these discussions, because we have already said many times, we are implementing a new rules of procedure, and we would all like to clarify how we are going to run some things. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u20	Of course, I took the floor to discuss this proposal or anything else, but I do not think that the proposal is qualified to decide, because it does not take account of the other part of what we will do with that point that is scheduled for this morning. It doesn't even know where we're going to move it, whether we're going to extend tomorrow's session and we're going to have a suitable two-hour vote, or what it's meant for this point, later, or whether we're going to have a vote on Friday when this point is scheduled. So I do not think that the proposal has been formulated in such a way that it can go to the vote in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u21	Well, colleague Anderlich, I'm asking for peace and concentration when we're trying to figure out what's right. Paragraph 65 of Article 65 provides for this procedural proposal; it is referred to by both colleague Jerovšek and colleague Podobnik. Of course, we must first adopt the agenda and then we can move these points. In my opinion, I have tried to point out earlier that it would be useful if the National Assembly rejected such proposals, because this would mean that we would actually announce in our work, in the proposal made by the College, because it is possible to coordinate the schedules at the College. As long as I am just asking, colleague Jerovšek, I am just saying, as you are, I am reminding you of the way it is easier to lead the work in the National Assembly without going into political decisions. [[...]] Well, please, colleague Jerovšek, I will put your proposal to the vote because I think it is justified. I'm not commenting on him. Not the contents at all. Not the contents at all. Please. We will now vote on the agenda and then on your proposals, my colleague Jerovšek and colleague Podobnik, I will give my word. I will put the agenda to the vote first, because we have deleted the point of withdrawal and enlargement, and then we will discuss the proposals that we have heard from two valued colleagues. So first, I am putting to the vote the agenda as we have adopted it with amendments. Please, who is in favour or against, vote. 65 present, 54 for and 7 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] The agenda is adopted. So now we have two proposals. First, I will put to the vote the proposal made by my colleague Jerovšek. This proposal states that the 29th item of the agenda will be moved to tomorrow afternoon. This would mean that it would be appropriate to amend the calendar of the meeting of the National Assembly. This proposal should be put to the vote. We're voting. 68 present, 21, 43 versus. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing he's not accepted. Comrade Companion, do you have a suggestion?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you, President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group today, when we went through the agenda, we found that on Wednesday evening, as the last item in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on agenda item 19 - the proposal for a law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services is the first to be considered. We have found that there are some colleagues who would like to be active at this point, if I say directly, in relation to another duty. This will be the time when after Slovenia will be elected to the state council and several fellow Members are also electors. I would therefore propose and ask for understanding that this point would be done in the morning work on Wednesday and that it would only change the order and I do not think that this would affect the entire agreement on the part of the national assembly. So this point is done in the morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u23	In the morning work, that means ten o'clock, Comrade Sponik?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u24	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u25	Okay, you heard the proposal, I'm putting it to the vote. Please vote. 66 in attendance, 23 in, 40 in. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that this proposal has also been rejected. Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u26	I'm sorry. All I'm asking is that it be taken into account, as you've seen, I was here to vote all the time, but my device didn't work until the previous vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u27	Does that mean you're objecting to work because of the voting device?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u28	No, no, I was here and I was pushing, but it didn't work. Now it's working.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u29	Well, that's not right. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] A colleague or a colleague should immediately warn, because perhaps now some vote was not important, but for the result itself, but it could be, and then this could be a major problem if it later objected to the part of the voting apparatus. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u30	There were a number of such cases where one vote was taken. In this case, it wasn't about that, so--
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u31	Technical services I ask that you now look at the voting device of your colleague Battelli during the period until the 15th hour when we continue to work on the National Assembly and move on to the 1st point. Until then, until the meeting of the National Assembly, when we move on to the 1st item, I'm adjourning the meeting. We'll continue at exactly 3 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u32	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Please take your seats. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. We'll move on to one. A TIME OF DAY, THAT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received written notifications of questions from Members and Members within the time limit. I'm asking for a little more peace in the hall. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure, the order of question is drawn up in such a way that two members of the opposition are appointed as members of the ruling coalition. The first four parliamentary questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, with questions raised by the three opposition members and then by a member of the ruling coalition. The Member may ask no more than two questions. He's got three minutes. The Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General shall reply to the question in no more than five minutes. The Member may also request a supplement to the reply, where the explanation of the request may not take more than two minutes and the reply by the Government may be completed no more than three minutes. Before I invite the first of my colleagues to the floor, I should like to inform you that, in accordance with the decision taken at the previous meeting, you have received a review of the questions and initiatives put forward after the new Rules of Procedure have been put in place, which I suggest will later become a tradition, a custom. I think it is right that Members and Members know which oral questions the Member States have asked and which written questions the Government or its representatives have not answered in the Rules of Procedure. I would like to point out that the following ministers or ministers apologized: Minister of Economy Dr. Tea Petrin, Minister of the Interior Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Lucija Čok and Minister of Culture Andreja Richter. These four government representatives will replace the state, so these four government representatives are not present at this meeting. [[...]] The first question will be raised by Dr Andrej Bajuk. It will be answered by the Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek. Please, Comrade Bajuk, you have a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for your input. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! My question today concerns your responsibility in ensuring the transparency or transparency of Slovenian public finances in your ten-year rule. The question is: Why, in all the years of your rule, you did not respect the provisions of Article 146(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says: "The State and the local communities show the value of their assets by means of property balances."? Governments under your leadership to the National Assembly and to the Slovenian public all the years so far, and also in the Final Account for 2001, have not submitted the balance sheet or balance sheet of the Central or Lower Country. Your government is only willing to tell us how much property and at what amount it intends to sell. In a similar question, why the state does not ensure transparency in the management of state property, you recently replied on TV that the government is reporting on what it intends to sell. But this is not the answer to this question, just a trifling part of the information needed to look into the management of state property, so I ask you again. Slovenian taxpayers do not know how much the state has had in all the past ten years of financial resources, investments in companies, institutions, funds; they do not know what properties and real estates it has with real resources. They do not know how the size of the assets was changing, how it was produced, how it was shrinking or how it was increasing, who was written off, who did not have to repay State loans. We do not know what is happening to the real estate and movable property managed by ministries and other direct users of the state budget. Over this situation in Slovenian public finances, representatives of the IMF International Monetary Fund were also surprised this year by the report, which said in their report: "The state has large capital assets, but has not yet reported on them. The Ministry of Finance is monitoring the country's capital shares, but there are no external reporting procedures so far. There is no report of financial resources." The Court of Auditors has so far not reviewed the balance sheet or the balance sheet of the State budget in its entire mandate. In the current period, the government is preparing for the accelerated sale or privatisation of state property, and citizens and the National Assembly do not know how much of it was, how many and so on; for this there are no objective reasons, according to our assessment. Nevertheless, we want to hear the answer to the question: Why did you not respect, in all ten years, the second paragraph of Article 146 of the Constitution of Slovenia, according to our assessment? Mr President, we want to hear your truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Mr Prime Minister Drnovšek, you have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u35	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly! This is a second question, as announced for today's debate, so I propose that the government answer this in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u36	I have before me a prayer for peace in the hall! [[...]] I ask for peace in the hall and patience. At my address or the address of the Government, Dr. Andrej Bajuk sent the following question to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: "At the 20th regular meeting of the National Assembly, I will raise an oral question concerning the implementation of the 2001 State Budget, for which the Court of Auditors found in the audit report that there was a significant discrepancy with the rules." The question was raised in this respect. Please, which of the government representatives will answer this question? Please, Minister or Prime Minister? Who? Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Indeed, the Court of Auditors’ report is prepared and, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Government is also preparing response reports from individual budgetary users. Let me say that under the current legislation, every ministry is responsible and responsible for the management of its budget and therefore it is also necessary to prepare a single report on how, why and in what cases there has been an irregularity. In this context, the government has already carried out its first examination of the reports and the review and has decided to carefully review all the measures taken, all of which, on the basis of the Court's report, have been prepared by individual ministries in the response reports. Let me say that by Tuesday next week, the ministries are also obliged to submit these response reports to the Court of Auditors. And before all the ministries give out their response reports, and they are already reviewing these response reports, they will carefully review the budget inspection. While the budget inspection is already preparing the necessary set of measures that the government will also take in its coordinating role to finally achieve that all budgetary users fully respect all the irregularities that the Court of Auditors is pointing out. And these measures are expected by the government to consider and adopt this Thursday at its meeting, so that by Tuesday all these measures could be put before the Court of Auditors. Let me say that in this review, irregularities that, according to the Court of Auditors, amount to at least 8 billion, or perhaps 12 billion, are listed and found a significant part of these errors, in particular in the area of salary payments, in the work also in the case of current and investment expenditure and in investment transfers. Some problems are related not only to current business but to systemic wage regulation and, of course, to the fact that in some areas it was employed at the beginning of the 1990s in accordance with regulations that were or were not, in fact, available and that subsequent legislation required precise systematisation and, of course, the proper employment of certain jobs. For example, it is noted at the Ministry of Defence that 74 per cent of all irregularities of the Ministry of Defence stem from employment in defence forces, about 300 employees. And for example, this error represents about 40 percent of all errors. And this is actually from the early 1990s. Other ministries are also making these mistakes, to the greatest extent possible, so we have decided, of course, that we will issue appropriate and conditional decisions to all employees in these ministries, on the basis of which, in accordance with amended legislation, in those cases where longer-term workers will be allowed to certify their skills and, of course, also to recognise this education, as many as 20 years of work experience in such jobs or even more. In other cases, however, education will be required within a certain period of time and, of course, the loss of a job. In short, what I want to say is that it is likely that this topic will also be dealt with specifically on your committee. In order to be able to report on your committee exactly after each of the ministries, after each of the budgetary users directly responsible for the implementation of the policy, [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] done and, of course, what we will do next. The fact is that the report was first prepared in 2001 by preparing reports for each single ministry or budget user and for the government together. Compared to 2000 and 2001 there are fewer irregularities in 2001, which is not so insignificant.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your answer. Do you want to ask an additional question? Please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Actually, that wasn't my question. In the 2001 Final Account, which was also published in the Rapporteur, of course, the Court of Auditors also reminds us that in 2001 we did not get what I asked because we had never received from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this National Assembly and the Slovenian public is not aware of these matters. Above all, this is worrying because we are facing the fact that the government is preparing accelerated sales or privatisation of state property in the coming months. And without this data, it is not really possible to assess this. But it's no specialty. We are also bound by the codes of fiscal transparency of the International Monetary Fund and also by their manual, which clearly states that even in these cases, such as Slovenia, when we have a different accounting system, otherwise called the cash system, through cash flows, requires always such a report on financial investments, all real assets and public debt, so to speak, all obligations. We haven't gotten that yet. We estimate that such an approach to transparency of public finances is not in place and does not comply with the rule of law and our legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much. First, I ask the Prime Minister. Would you like to respond further? You're giving it to the Minister of Finance. Please, mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Let me say that, within the Ministry of Finance and Government, a detailed inventory was made in the previous mandate and an overview of all the property owned by the State, that the estimated book value of the property was also that the government, due to extremely expensive procedures, did not decide on a specific valuation of the entire property. However, as you have said, Dr. Bayuk, the Ministry of Finance is monitoring the country's financial investments and, of course, it also shows them whenever we are preparing a programme for the sale of financial and real property, in accordance with the law on public finances and, of course, within and in this context, we also very clearly show the book value of the individual property. And when a single transaction is carried out exclusively and only in accordance with the Public Finance Act and the Sales Programme, we also always make it clear, and these data are available to the extent that the value of each asset has been estimated, the value of the transaction has been estimated and, of course, what the final profit is from this Title. Let us also say, of course, that in accordance with the European Union methodology, ESA 95 should be presented every year, when the deficit, deficit is shown, and you are well aware that this is published every year in the official publications of the European Union, that an assessment of the increase or reduction in the value of the assets and, of course, the debt that would possibly result, or the debt that would result from it, should also be made clear. So that's actually what we're doing. However, we can provide you with a very precise overview of where we will prepare a list of all your assets, a list of all your financial assets, accounting values and, of course, everything we have shown publicly and in a loud and transparent manner in the National Assembly each time we have prepared a programme for the sale of financial and real property. Since we did not know today that you were particularly interested in these balance sheets and that you were particularly interested in these data, we were unable to produce exact numbers. But there is no problem at all, and we can prepare it for you and, of course, present it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Procedurally, please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. These are not the requirements of one Member. This requires our legal order, this requires our constitution. This national assembly in everything, not only in this reference, but also in previous references, has never had a report from the Slovenian government on what I have been saying about financial investments. I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we have a public debate in this national assembly on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u44	We can't make this decision this time. In the previous meeting, your parliamentary group or you have proposed this, so this is not the subject of a decision at this time. Comrade Sasha Peca has the floor to ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u45	Your Honors are here! The difference in Slovenian regions is significant. This difference is highlighted by the European Union's report on the adaptation or integration of Slovenia into these European integrations. It warns us and advises us to approach the so-called selective approach in promoting and reviving Slovenian regions, in particular in terms of reducing these differences. After all, Slovenia has already taken steps to do so. The law on coherent regional development is unfortunately only because of the law because it does not contain financial resources and has never been able to satisfy the content of this law. Today or in those days there is another law in the procedure, a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty. This law will also, unfortunately, in my opinion, be one of those who will be law-abiding and not for content. Because it does not specify the resources in its content, because it gives the dispersion of decision-making, especially to state officials and those bound by this law, they simply will not know who to turn to, to what extent and how to live with this law. We have proposed two solutions in the Slovenian National Party. First, to establish a so-called parent fund, which will be unified within one ministry and established outside the capital of the Republic of Slovenia and, secondly, through a constant source of revenue, 3% of the tax revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. 3% of tax revenues would be about 56 billion, which means fifteen times more than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia foresees by its basic law. But of course, because I fear that you will not take into account the Slovenian National Party proposal and that the existing regional policy will continue to push the region in the background and thus increase the differences, it is necessary to emphasise and make sense to say that, by statistics and content, these two regions are mainly exposed to a negative average, at least after natural growth, at the most after the number of capital companies, at most after the profit. And as we know, companies shape fate and the development of an individual region. Question for you, Prime Minister: Since there was a government meeting in Maribor years ago, at which you planned some solutions, I am particularly interested in the following: Why has the economic zone not been revived under changed conditions? Second: Where is the idea of a global development concept for this part of Slovenia? [[Warning tone.]] I'll be right there. Where is the project of the international land transport and logistics centre and where is the regional industrial development strategy, which were the basis in the documents or conclusions of the government you adopted in Maribor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much, buddy. Mr. Prime Minister, you have five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u47	Regional development is of course very important. The government gives him adequate attention. Although the difference in development between our regions is not as great as many in the European Union, we are aware of the seriousness of this issue. The fact is that the issue of regional development will be one of the most serious issues of the future development of Slovenia. In recent times, instruments have been developed to promote regional development. An institutional structure has also been established with an agency at the state level and also with regional agencies. Regional development programmes are being prepared across different regions. I think that these programmes have already been adopted in seven regions. The others are still in preparation. Many, in some regions, unfortunately even in those who may be most exposed, in this case pomurska and Podravska, there are certain delays in the preparation of regional development programmes, including the coordination of internal regional interests, because this coordination sometimes takes too long. However, the whole process is in development. We expect that the quality of regional development programmes will also increase, that professional skills, institutional skills will be increased and that the effectiveness of promoting regional development can also be improved in the coming years. Because it is not only about how much money to spend on a particular region, but how to spend it as effectively as possible. This requires quality-prepared regional programmes that will genuinely address the real development issues, the issues of the region. The State has committed and is still committed and will allocate resources for regional development on a variety of bases. This is a direct fund for regional development, which is close to 9 billion in 2002, I think 8.8 billion. Of this, some of the funds of the European Union are also. Then it is the indirect funds that we consider to be regional funds, the central regional incentives, which are around 80 billion. In a broader sense, however, it is an additional 140 billion, which are also targeted at regions in different bases and different items. In the next two years, 2003 and 2004, there will be more of these funds. However, they are also being joined by funds to promote employment, for the active employment this year, I think about 19 billion, which are largely focused on less developed areas. Resources are being added to promote the competitiveness of the economy, which we are increasing in the current budgets. And these funds are also targeted in these areas. So let's not even talk about restructuring funds. And the law you mentioned, the law that will enable aid, the one-off aid for firms in difficulty, will play the greatest role obviously in these regions. We already see, an appropriate programme is being prepared for Pomurje as well as elsewhere. So, of course, there is a development problem and instruments are in place on the basis of a law that has been passed not long ago, institutions are in place and we are also preparing to draw on the European Union's resources, which also requires the institutional capacity of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u48	Do you want to ask an additional question? Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u49	You say the institutions are established, you say the projects are made, and you say that in the next 10 years these regional differences will be reduced. In the next 10 years. Mr Drnovšek, the city of Maribor, gave the government of the Republic of Slovenia those three projects, or four, which I previously specifically named, on a platter two, three years ago. There's been no realisation. And I sincerely hoped that you would respond to me as you wrote in the government's decision, because of ignorance, inelasticity and poor response. And in this regard, I am taking the initiative that in the city of Maribor, the surroundings and the city, in particular, as a centre carrying almost one third of Slovenia, these projects will finally begin to take place. But the approach is different. It is not enough to say in Ljubljana alone, we have projects and we have institutions if they don't know them or can't touch them and realize them. And I expect from you, from the Prime Minister or from the Government, that in such cases, when you offer or give projects outside the city of Ljubljana, you will inform at least the representatives of local communities, not the mayor. During the previous term of office, the mayor was informed of this area, but no reply was received from the current mayor. We need to do more than just communicate. This will lead us to reduce regional disparities much earlier than in the next 10 years. And I think that's the goal and the interest of all of us here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u50	Mr Prime Minister, you would like to answer the question further. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u51	Yeah, for a little while. The Member of Parliament has therefore raised the issue and the problem that we are also identifying. In view of the lack of programmes in the regions themselves, sometimes the underresponsibility of regional or municipal structures is insufficient. There is a need to establish a partnership between state agencies and, of course, between regional structures. Without this, of course, it is not possible to place development in individual regions from the centre. In any case, state institutions are needed, and state resources targeted at regions are needed and programmes are needed in the regions. The Podrav region is one of those where this problem has been present so far, i.e. underresponsibility and under-programmes. On the State side, however, a number of things have been done, including in the field of infrastructure, which has received considerable incentives and solid development in Maribor. The economic situation has also stabilised after that shock, following the loss of markets in the former Yugoslavia, following the restructuring or collapse of some major companies that could not stand in new conditions. By also seeing a positive trend, including the reduction of unemployment, although there is a fact that unemployment in the natural region is still above average and the problem remains. Once again, however, institutions are in place, funds are available and will increase, ours and the Europeans. In addition to national efforts, there is also a need for initiative or initiative in the regions and in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u52	Please, my friend Peca. You have a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you for that opportunity. I will take this opportunity to put to the vote that this issue of the development of the city of Maribor and the expansion of the wider range of partners involved, not only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but also the current city authority, which has proved to be inadequate, let us also include in the meeting of the National Assembly, helping over 200,000 people in this environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u54	So that there will be no misunderstandings like before with a colleague of Dr. Bayuk, I ask you whether you refer to the second paragraph of Article 246. In fact, it says that a Member who raises an oral question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General and that the State Assembly decide on this without discussion. Earlier, at a time when you, your colleague Peca, asked the Prime Minister a question, we also clarified with his colleague Dr Bajuk that he wanted to refer to the same article, although he did not say so, and he felt that there was a public debate. That's why there was a misunderstanding. So both Comrade Dr. Bajuk and colleague Peca want to decide, by voting in the evening session tomorrow, the National Assembly will decide without discussion to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the answers to their parliamentary questions. So tomorrow night we will vote on your proposal. Now I give my word to my colleague Janez Janša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u55	Dear Mr. President! Given that I have announced a similar question as a fellow Member who asked before me, I would continue your claim that the situation in northeastern Slovenia has stabilised and that the situation is on the way to improvement. However, if we look at the last ten years and the developmental backlogs of individual regions in Slovenia at this time, we see that these differences have increased in the ten years that you are the head of the Slovenian government, with a short interruption, mainly. This stabilisation mentioned by you means that Maribor and the entire region today have almost three times more unemployed than Ljubljana and the central Ljubljana region. Stabilization at this point means disaster. Even more interesting is your statement you made on 4.11. where you say, "We must take into account that Maribor is a more depressing city and that this is also the whole region". Don't you think it's a bit cynical, after you've been in charge of the government for ten years, creating these developmental differences, and also this depression, and which in some way has also damaged this city with such a policy to make such a statement? First you hurt someone and then you accuse him of being depressed? I want to know: What exactly did you mean by that statement? And also: What will you, as a government, do to ensure that the situation does not stop at this point where it is now stabilised? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u56	Mr. President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you. In the economy, the term "depressive" is used not in this sense, psychologically but economically; some economic situation may be depressing or some region in economic depression. And Maribor and the Podrav region certainly was. Based on objective facts, of which we all know or should at least know, Maribor with the old industry was mainly directed to the markets of the former Yugoslavia or beyond, to the markets of the Soviet Union or Iraq. These are all the markets that have collapsed with Slovenia's independence, literally gone overnight. That is why the State has tried to rescue some larger companies, such as there, and has also made substantial resources available for this, but in some cases it has shown itself that this is simply not possible to resolve such major shocks, such as the sudden loss of business markets, unless they have been maintained for a long time by state resources, which of course is not possible. Well, that's why the restructurings were done, of course, painful, but also successful. There are also a lot of new companies being set up, new small and medium-sized enterprises are developing, including in Maribor, and it is noticeable, although not yet large, but it has seen a positive shift in recent times, at least as far as unemployment is concerned, so it is slightly reduced, although it is true that it is greater than the national average, still about, I think, about 50%. It is understandable, however, that, of course, the central Slovenian region departs in a positive sense and is difficult to compare. The objective causes therefore dictated a difficult starting position for Maribor and regional policy, with the system, with institutions, the means that are being established, we mean, of course, to cover such areas in particular. In Slovenia, this is mainly the pomur region and the Podravska, Zasavska and Lower-Savska region. These are, according to the combined data, those in the last four places. And the government is aware of this problem. I have already spoken on the previous question that, of course, an approach is needed on both sides, the initiative is also, of course, by the local community, the region, domestic factors, personnel and we expect that very good bases are in place for these trends to turn or strengthen towards the development of less developed or, say, eliminating depressed regions, if I so call them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Complementary question, colleague Janš. Can you turn it off, Mr. Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u59	The term depression comes from psychology, not economics. In the economy, it is very rare and almost never used to describe a region that has deteriorated in economic and development terms. And so far, we haven't been able to trace it anywhere. But this is not the main question. The main question is: Why hasn't everything you've just mentioned about what's about to happen been done by now? For the shocks you speak of are judged in the time eight years ago. So these shocks were not just in this region, they were also in some others. However, the fact is that no restructuring took place at this time. The government has not offered programmes to strengthen the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The government has not provided financial discipline, which would create a more favourable environment for this development. And after all, where there were no conditions for such development, talk about the fact that nothing has happened and that it is important to take into account the fact that Maribor is a depressive city and that such an entire region also shows not only the lack of some ideas, development ideas, but also the very cynical attitude of the present central government towards those who, at that time, have fallen back because of this authority. So once again, I ask the Prime Minister: In what way will future behaviour differ from that of the last ten years so that the situation will not remain stable there?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u61	Slovenia has managed, according to other transition countries that have experienced similar shocks, to relatively successfully amortise such difficult problems, or problems are certainly and it would be unrealistic to expect ideal solutions where all development problems can be solved with a wand, a magic wand. We have worked extremely hard at this time, you know, in the construction of the Slovenian state, in the establishment of all institutions, after all, institutions for regional development. And what cannot be in the market economy - there can be no state to establish, say, some new companies instead of those that could not survive - must necessarily be combined with the initiative from the region itself, from the region itself. So that regional development is certainly difficult everywhere in the world and I think we are seriously facing it and that we can rightly expect, as I said before, to improve trends; the basis for this is, is the beginning of such movements, institutions and programmes are now on a better track. Perhaps Secretary of State Strmšnik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u62	Unfortunately, Mr President, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 240, only the Minister or the Secretary-General may assist you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u63	All right, all right. Then we can add some more written reports so that you don't pull now. But it is essential at this point that - and I must say, the government certainly agrees with this, as I understand the intention of your questions - that we prepare ourselves as best as possible in the area of regional development, so that we can also benefit from the European Union's relatively large resources in this area. This is one of the fundamental common issues of the European Union as well. There is solidarity in this area, which is why our efforts are now focused on getting as much resources as possible and establishing appropriate institutions. In this way, we can also reduce the development gap faster than we would by our own resources. No country in the European Union has done so alone, but they have done so through large-scale development programmes or structural programmes of the European Union and the large-scale funds they have received from there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. We have thus concluded the part in which you are obliged to answer the questions of colleagues and colleagues, as Prime Minister, and later the questions of colleagues and colleagues will be answered by ministers and ministers. First, on the question of colleague Marie Possonec, Minister of Health. Please, colleague of the Possonians, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! I am addressing the following question to the Ministry of Health: Why do doctors working on the committees of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia and decide on important issues that have a short and long-term impact on the outcome of the treatment or medical condition of patients, such as in hospital stocks, invalidity pensions, do not fall under the direct professional supervision of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia? As a result of my current legal arrangements, these doctors in these commissions are exempt from regulations or the Medical Chamber of Slovenia has no control over the professionality of their work, which is reflected in the minor protection of patients in these areas. These problems are also pointed out by the parties in the office. I believe that there is a legal void, which should also be removed by adopting a legal supplement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u67	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think I can explain in this brief reply that there is no legal void. Doctors, and all of this, commit to the ethical and professional work of their activities in addition to Hippocrates's oath of health care, which explicitly states that all doctors in health care are bound by the Medical Deontology Code and all other professional and ethical codes The Medical Service Act accurately describes what a medical activity is and, to shorten, I can say, in this description it is quite clear that the so-called paper work of the commissions includes this definition, especially since these commissions may call patients for a more precise clarification. Let me add another explanation. All these doctors also have a medical supplement that somehow shows the economic performance of their work at the moment. Nor do the regulations governing the work of the Chamber, the Law on Medical Activities, exclude in any way the doctors who work in these committees from being under the professional supervision of the Chamber. Today, when we knew your question, we checked with the medical room, which confirmed that there were no exceptions. Of course, this is a practical consequence, the number of these reviews. Professional supervision is carried out at the Chamber due to a limited number of places where it makes sense. On this occasion, let me say that there can also be exceptional professional supervision at the appropriate initiative, which should be carried out in this case by the Chamber. I believe, Madam Member, that there may be certain exceptions that you know, so we have also reviewed the number of doctors who have a license. We checked the number of doctors with a license at the health insurance office. Of 51 doctors, 49 are licensed, for 2 doctors, we have not been able to find out if they are in the process of renewal or any other case. So I would certainly like to say that there are grounds for marriage and that the possible cases you mentioned may be cases of bad practice. However, we do not have a specific question on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u68	Would you like to ask a supplementary question? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to my colleague Sok, let me say that he will first repeat the question raised at the previous meeting by the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, he will have 3 minutes to answer this question, and the government or the minister will have 5 minutes to answer it. Today, he will also raise the question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Also here three minutes and five minutes to respond. You have the floor, Comrade Sok. Please. But first, you must repeat the question that has already been asked. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. I didn't quite get you. First, let me repeat the question from the previous sitting. So, if I repeat the question briefly, I asked the Minister of Agriculture whether the Ministry of Agriculture would extend the deadline for the implementation of the rules on veterinary health conditions, which will enter into force on 25 November 2002. This is because, in accordance with this Regulation, some processing plants have been able to adapt to the new requirements of the Regulation and have obtained oval stamps which provide them or give them the right to register as export establishments and can also export outside the territory of Slovenia, according to the European Union countries, while some other plants have been mentioned here by the slaughterhouse Ptuj, which is very important for this region of ours, the ptujsko-ormoško area, and these establishments have failed because they are too late to adapt due to unresolved denationalisation and other procedures. So, I asked the Minister of Agriculture: Will the Ministry of Agriculture extend these establishments by one year? This would allow them to acquire the status of industrial plants and thus provide them with a possibility of greater processing, because otherwise they will end up as craftsmen, which does not give them a chance to survive in the future community, says the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Mr. Minister for Agriculture, mag. Booth, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. For the last time, I apologize for being in Brussels in the negotiations. That's why I wasn't here. As regards the issue in question, of course, it is very important, as it relates to a rather high number of establishments in the urban industry. For the first time, however, I would like to point out that all these mandatory adaptations have been known since 1999, when we, as a country, also adopted a programme in this National Assembly for the adaptation of the rule of law and all the activities related thereto. In this regard, all companies have had many activities that we have dedicated to them. We also organised appropriate workshops in 1999 and 2000; at the beginning of 2001 we called on all companies to prepare a concrete operational programme, to have a number of bilateral discussions with many. A large part of these companies have adapted and managed to adapt. They've invested a lot of money. The Ministry has also provided them with sufficient incentives in the framework of the national programme, including in the framework of the pre-accession assistance of Sapard in the last year, including some companies from northeastern Slovenia. Furthermore: this year we had a 14-day European Union inspection, which was very positive and confirmed great progress from 1999 to 2002. At the same time, it imposed on the State the possibility that, on the basis of a specific legal framework, it could operationally evaluate the state of preparation at an individual establishment. For this purpose, a sub-legislative act has already been issued this week, on the basis of which the Ministry of Veterinary Administration is in charge of reviewing each case, from case to case, any case of adaptation and, as appropriate, may be evaluated in accordance with possible progress, to initiate certain activities, to ensure that, for justified reasons, these activities have not yet been completed and that they will be completed in due course. If so, then this period may also be extended; of course, where they did nothing and did nothing and simply waited four years, there are no such reasons on the basis of this Regulation. However, if something is involved, for example in spatial documents or any other documents, or if the investment is in the initial phase and it is clear that, for example, the month of June of Alimaya will be completed, in this case, the veterinary administration may extend this adjustment period from the case to the case. But there is no way to say: for one year we are going to extend it all together. However, I estimate that this regulation will in fact be in no way contrary to consumer rights, but it will be extremely large and very high in a large part of businesses that it will in some way confirm. However, those who have been burdened with procedural activities, such as the acquisition of relevant documents, for legitimate reasons, and who have begun to work too late with modern works, will also be able to do so on the basis of very concrete and all equal starting options, but it must be clear from the programme that something has already been done, that work is being done, that work is being done is being done and that it will be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to my colleague Sok to ask a question in the context of the 20th meeting of the assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much for that answer. If I understand correctly, the ministry will rationally approach the solution to this pressing problem. So today, I would like to ask the Minister the next question. See, Slovenian agriculture has suffered a very large loss some time ago due to the emergence of BSE, the so-called Bovines of Pondiforne encephalopathy. The introduction of this disease to the state of Slovenia has not been explained, nor do I know of at least one breed in which this disease has been identified from the municipality of Ormož, that it has not been reimbursed or assessed to date. We already have a new affair that will affect agricultural production again, this is an affair with the appearance of chloramphenicol in milk. I think that the Ministry has acted somewhat illogically here, because among those who have suffered harm, many of the potential offenders that the Ministry is talking about today are also farmers who do not belong to potential offenders, and have also been affected through this milk affair. Now the ministry is slightly different from this approach, but the damage has already been done. The damage was caused by the direct loss you estimate at 100 million tolars. The damage was caused by the loss of certain markets in our former Yugoslav republics, and the damage that will come, of course, is caused by the loss of consumer confidence here at home. So I ask, actually, this would be a question for the whole government: Why such an approach? Why such a way to solve this burning problem when it could be solved in another way? I also ask: Are there rumors that the sale of agricultural products through mediation will be prevented in the future through a network of trades? Is it true that farmers will be able to sell their products only at the farm and at the nearest market? So this is a question for the Minister of Agriculture. This time that I have left, I will also use it to ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question, which will shorten the issue a little. I have a letter from the employee in front of me - I'll say it in my initials - S. D. from the Ormož Congregation, which from 1997 until now, within five years, received a contract of employment in the company where she worked on more than 33 occasions. So 33 times her working relationship with the contract was re-established for a certain period of time. The new Labour Relations Act, which will enter into force as from 1 January, will, however, provide such solutions to employment for a fixed period of time. [[...]] [[There was a sign for the end.]] Do I have to finish?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u74	Yes, please finish the thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u75	Okay, then I'll keep doing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much. First, I give my word to the Minister for Agriculture mags. Booth, and then the Minister of Labour, Dr. Dimovski. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. With regard to the issue of banned antibiotics, which must not be the subject of food consumed by people, I must say that there is a single regulation in the European space between Member States and candidates for entry. Mandatory regular monitoring shall be carried out. On the basis of this monitoring, which we have carried out twice a year on the number of prescribed samples taken, just as we have everywhere in the European space, we have never detected anything. When we made an individual sampling, which, of course, is not required by the European legal order and has never been carried out by anyone, except this spring, when this problem occurred in Germany, we reached 16 potentially infected milk lines, which were confirmed since 171 later in the Vageningen Reference Laboratory in the Netherlands. So the moment we received this -- that was November 8th -- had to be done. This means, to act, to prohibit the transmission of milk on those routes where the milk was contaminated on the whole track; individual samples have been taken before. And when the individual samples were confirmed, the lines, apart from individual samples, were released. On this basis, there are many questions as to why action has been taken. I think that there is no other way to do this than to take action, because if I continued to receive milk from these lines, in this case they would act against international rules, against the rules of an international health organisation and against consumer rights. This means that consumers have the right to be provided with undeniable undisputed food. To this end, we establish a system, a system of necessity to operate, and it is a matter of state that, if it is found that an infected, contaminated or potentially dangerous food has appeared in circulation, this food should be removed immediately from circulation and released once possible. But the rest is business. To find out why and what happened is first of all those responsible for producing. These are, in the first place, agricultural cooperatives that have to provide their buyer with a clean and healthy raw material, this is a dairy. But of course, this is a broader matter. We all want this problem resolved as soon as possible. That is why we have come to this in a broader way. We have found that today, most of the samples that we have received so far have been confirmed as suspicious, which we have sent to the reference laboratories as positive; however, the three from the Vipava Valley have been confirmed with the same content as our laboratory has confirmed, while at the same time they have been proposed as negative. While remaining, those we have received so far are positive; by simply saying that in the country we should decide what the decision will be. Now 16,000 individual samples were taken last week. If all 16,000 individual samples are negative, then the answer is clear that it was an infection via milk when milk was no longer in the animals. However, if one of the samples is positive, it means that there must be another cause: either it is animal treatment or it is any other cause. In short, this week it will be clear whether the elimination factor for infection or contaminated milk has arisen from animals or has not come from animals. That's what's going to give a big part of the answer. At this point, however, it is important that we fix the matter as quickly as possible to simply protect all three levels: one level is consumers, I think consumers can now buy solid milk with certainty - the other is farmers. The fact that we have found that chloramphenicol is present in milk is, of course, undeniably speaking, that we have a fact and we do not yet have a violator. We have potential violators, so we must not declare all those offenders until then until they have been proven to be violators. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Only if I finish my thought. [[...]] While everything that's related to the rest of the events is also to be stopped by the slaughter of farmers, because most farmers are just as honest as most other people and work on their domestics as well as on government employees. They only carry out and do nothing but by means of the laws of the prescribed measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I should also warn the Minister that we have new developments in the National Assembly. This is news on the screen that shows how long after the speaker left. If someone runs out of time, it's in red numbers. Comrade Sok, you must have a supplementary question. If not, for Minister Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u79	Yeah, that would be interesting, because that would take a lot of words to clear up this problem. So there's not even time for us to do that today. That is why I would like to continue with the question that I have begun to refer to Mr Dimovski, which is that, in five years, the worker has concluded a fixed-term contract 33 times. The new law, which will enter into force on 1 January, will prevent this possibility, i.e. it will be able to conclude a maximum of two contracts within 2 years, so Article 53 of this Law speaks, but the law before us does not say anything about how, after the employer of the worker or the employee who has twice employed him for a certain period of time, he will not be employed for an indefinite period of time. It will simply happen in our practice when contracts are concluded even in a month, two or three, that workers will find themselves in an extremely difficult situation and that they will in practice often have to be forgiven workers and, both of them, they will have to seek employment in other working organisations. So I am asking the Ministry: How will your ministry act to make workers more secure in the future and not to come into a position like this, as it has been until now, when they have actually extended their contracts for a certain period of time from month to month? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you, Comrade Sok. The answer, Mr. Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much for that question. Of course, this question needs to be answered quite broadly because it concerns the old labour relations law and the new labour relations law and some of the issues you have put here. Under one point I would say that the mere indication of a 33-fold extension of the working relationship suggests that there had to be a limitation in this area which was not available under the previous law. Let me immediately say that, after the previous law, if this extension was illegal for a certain period of time, the so-called legal presumption - I think that this was article 18 of the old labour law - is considered to be an indefinite period of time. And the same legal presumption of illegal compliance with certain conditions of employment, and under the new Labour Relations Act under Article 54, it is considered to be a time-consuming employment. That's what this is about. If any of these sequels were to say so, as we call it in practice, it could, of course, have been that this worker, either anonymously or by name and/or otherwise, had notified the inspectorate of the work. We have already called on employees and others on several occasions to report this to the labour inspector if the indicators have certain illegal conduct or employers or otherwise to request. That's the first part of the answer that I wanted to say. Part two, I'll just say it for a minute. The new Labour Relations Act, of course, tried to limit the chaining practice in some way. In the so-called negotiations between the social partners, of course, the question was how and how to achieve this. European practice is actually quite different in this area. However, there is a way that the limitation of employment for a certain period of time is tied to either two years or three years. And these were, in fact, also the issues that the social partners were asking each other. Finally, it was somehow decided that the employment should be limited to two years for a certain period, but with a transitional period for a three-year period for large employers until 1.1.2007 and for small employers until 1.1.2010. In particular, it means that the employer may conclude a fixed-term contract for a three-year period on 31.12.2006. As of 1.1.2007, the so-called two-year period for a large employer begins. The Labour Relations Act has, of course, defined in Article 52 the reasons for which the employer may conclude a fixed-term contract because the basic type of employment is for an indefinite period of time. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I apologize for not going into otherwise we can continue this answer to the lady and we will also forward it in writing. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u82	Are you satisfied with the answer, Comrade Sok? Thank you very much. Now I'll give my word to my friend Tank. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! I refer the question to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. However, it refers to school transport, which is one of the major problems faced and targeted by both municipalities and families, not only because of difficulties in organising transport, but mainly because of the cost. While the municipalities have several 100 tolls per capita recognised to cover the costs of school transport. These include costs for hazardous routes. However, these amounts are not nearly enough to cover them. School transport costs are largely influenced by the population, number and distance of settlements, the network of schools, the legal obligations imposed, and dangerous beasts in some environments. The actual cost of transport between the municipalities is very different and ranges from some 200 to almost 13,000 tolls per person in the municipality, with the worst conditions. So the ratio between the extreme congregations is 1:60. It is clear that the cost of school transport is significantly higher mainly in rural, sparsely populated environments where the dispersed settlement prevails and where there is a higher number of settlements. On average, these costs are almost 10 times higher than in more concentrated urban or urban municipalities. Thus, there are at least two problems, namely the marked imbalance and the wide difference between the recognised costs of transport in appropriate consumption and the actual costs in the municipalities, but also for the uneven burden of municipalities; we have seen the differences before. Especially are those municipalities that tend to have other developmental and structural problems. I wonder: How does the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport intend to address these major imbalances or inconsistencies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u84	My friend Tanko, as I told you in the introduction, the Minister of Education is not here today, apologized. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, it is incumbent on your question to answer in writing; if you are not satisfied with the answer, you can insist on repeating your question at the next meeting. Do you need to say today whether you will persist in your oral response or are you satisfied with your writing? Please, buddy Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you. I must say, I'm disappointed. I see that some other ministers are also replaced by state secretaries, Mr. Strmšnik, for example, is here [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u86	He may be present, but he cannot replace a minister or a minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u87	Okay, thanks. But I'd like to ask you an additional question. I'd like to take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u88	No, Comrade Tanko, you must answer the question whether you will insist on Mrs. Chokov answering your question orally, will you be satisfied with the written answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u89	He can also answer in writing, only in this case would he complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u90	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u91	And I'd like to ask for two minutes. Similar problems, such as in primary school transport, are also common in the transport of secondary schools, only that the network of schools is even less rare here and that the burden of much higher transport costs is borne by families, particularly rural families. These families already have a significantly lower standard, on average about 20%, they usually have more schooling children and much worse bus connections. Although partly secondary school transport is subsidised, the cost of education for rural children is significantly higher than in urban areas. For comparison: the diatric map, for example, from the Loške brook to Kočev is more than 25,000 tolars, to Ljubljana more than 36,000 tolars. And since there are usually rural families with more schooling children, the cost is also higher. In the case of two schoolchildren, transport costs are higher than the net salary of the employee in this environment. Since more families are unable to do so, education is limited to a few capable students. I wonder: How does the Ministry intend to resolve such problems and allow students from these backgrounds access to secondary school under equivalent conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you, buddy Tanko. So, you asked a question and a supplemental one. The Minister of Education, Dr. Chokov, has to answer your questions in thirty days. At the next meeting, however, you do not have the right to insist that your question be answered orally. My colleague, Bojan Kontic, will ask the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The Silesian Valley is also known for its environmental burden in addition to some other provinces in Slovenia. The consequences of mining, which on the one hand enabled Velenja to flourish, were at the same time a great burden on the environment and the consequences were more obvious for the inhabitants of the valley. Settlements were disappearing, we were leaving our homes, we were building up hillslides, which were filled with water, resulting in lakes being created. Well, that wasn't it, and it wasn't all. In the valley we also have a thermal power plant in Šostanj, which in the past has been very, but now increasingly, polluting the environment. Thus, we have paid more than the ecological tax on our jobs. At the time of the appointment of the new Director of Coal, it was mentioned that his choice was influenced by a development programme in which, among other things, waste treatment or treatment was also recorded. I want to know: Which ones, and in what way? This is also an opportunity, Mr Minister, to make public today to ensure that the state-owned undertaking and its subsidiary in Velenje will not deliver waste that are environmentally unfriendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Comrade Contic. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Look, coal company Velenje is already adding waste material to the rehabilitation of the mine pits and will do so in the future. It is the processing of, for example, waste e-mails from Gorenje in the installation of these waste products, in short, carcases and materials for filling the dug-out area. Otherwise, in Velenje Coal and in the Shaleska Valley there is also a number of needs regarding waste management, and let me mention some of which Velenje's coal miner has also highlighted as potential business opportunities for himself. The analysis of the operation of the mining line shows that it is capable of accepting additional loads in the amount of waste generated in the area of the municipality of Velenje. With a minimum input, it is the arrangement of roofs, kesons, traffic arrangements, could arrange the necessary collection recycling centre and increase the efficiency of the screening line and the depository area around it. The available spatial, energy and logistics potentials allow for the transformation of one of the facilities within the Velenje coal-store plant into a collection-recycling centre of the Savinja-Shalesh region. The waste management strategy in the Republic of Slovenia envisages the construction of a regional waste management centre in the region of the Celje region, where municipal waste from the municipality of Velenje will also be gravitated. Of course, after the closure of the municipal waste dump that's operating right now. It is appropriate to consider the processing of the remaining municipal waste from the Shaleska Valley to the extent that the quantities of substances suitable for disposal are reduced to a minimum. All of this could, of course, be done theoretically in production plants or in the business areas of Velenje Coal. One of the business opportunities for Velenje coal mines is also the recycling of construction waste. As you probably know, the disposal of construction waste is inappropriate at the location of municipal waste dumps. The landfills of municipal waste are too expensive to store construction waste on them. The Velenje Coal Mine needs inert materials to be repaired. And he also sees his business opportunity in the recycling of construction waste. One of the possibilities or opportunities seen by Velenje Coal, as I have been informed, is the use of spatial availability, which they have in a cluster with 11000 square useful surfaces, to extend electronic waste management activities or with a white technique. The thought is, of course, the processing of waste white techniques. These are all business opportunities identified as potential by Velenje Coal Coal and which, as I am informed, will, of course, also be tried in an attempt to achieve the necessary restructuring.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u96	Would you like to ask an additional question? Please. Continuum.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. At the beginning of the answer, you were talking about municipal waste. These activities are managed by the local community, and the local community is likely to have the key to how municipal waste will be handled. I firmly believe that we will have to take care of our own wastes in the Valley of Shaleska. At the same time, I strongly doubt that we will be ready to take waste from elsewhere, including waste cars mentioned in the newspaper as a developmental possibility of coal mines. The waste is already being transported to the Šostanj thermal power plant. I wonder how much bone meal was incinerated by the Shoštanj thermal power plant, and how much of this did it devote to the municipal or road infrastructure of the local community?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u98	Mr. Minister Mag. The digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u99	I don't have this particular information on me right now, but of course we'll give it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I now invite my colleague, I do not see him in the Chamber, so I cannot give him the floor for a question, so I invite my colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič, who will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As I can see, there is no Ministry of Economy here, and if possible, I would invite them to attend. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u102	My colleague Arehova, I already told you in the introduction that some have apologized. They are, as is true for us, Article 247; if you ask a question, you will decide whether you want a written answer within 30 days or whether you will insist on answering it and are obliged to answer it at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u103	I'll ask for a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u104	Okay. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u105	This year's Official Journal No 28/2002 published an invitation to tender to promote the introduction of methods and tools to increase productivity by cost co-financing. The purpose of the call was to support businesses in systematically transferring knowledge and introducing methods and tools to increase productivity, with a focus on systems of continuous improvements. The envisaged tender funds were 50 SIT for 2002 and for 2003 and 2004, depending on the appropriations granted in the coming years. We all know how difficult it is for Slovenian companies to devote money to modernise production: no, because they would not be aware of necessity, but simply not capable of investment. The State resources earmarked for this purpose are therefore even more desirable and necessary. With a view to the transparency of the tendering procedures, the economic and fair distribution of funds and, of course, the purpose of spending, I want to know: How does the Ministry choose a business? How does it control the distribution procedures, the level of funds and, of course, the purpose of spending? Specifically: What were the procedures in the case of tender funds to promote the introduction of methods and tools to increase productivity? I also wonder: What did they find out about verification and control? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you very much. So, colleague Lavrièva insists that the Minister responds in writing within 30 days. I now give the floor to my colleague Janez Podobnik, who will raise the question to the Minister of Health. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you, President. I am referring to the question of Prof. Dr. Kebra, Minister of Health. I ask him about the approval of an insulin pump, including related consumer material, including pregnant diabetic women, not only insured persons up to the age of 7 and 15. As from 20 July of this year, the insulin pump and the related consumer material are only the right of insured persons to an age of 7 and 15 if they have severely manageable diabetes. But this right does not apply to persons above that age. It should be said that there is a discretionary right of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute under Article 263 of the rules that an insured person may exceptionally be granted a medical device or a medicinal product or reimbursement of expenses even if that is not the right, if such authorisation is medically indicated or justified. So the question to the Minister: What guidelines have you drawn up, or what procedures have you already carried out, or are you predicting in the light of past initiatives - because, as I know, some of them have already been received - to grant the right to use an insulin pump also to pregnant women with severe leading diabetes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u108	Please, Minister Keber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Medical technology and other health-supporting sciences, of course, bring important discoveries from year to year, including new financial requirements. Even when the financial plans are already adopted, a new important medicine or a new important procedure may appear in the middle of the year and since the way of granting new rights is limited by old rights - I have already talked about this in this House and we want to change it - it is, of course, difficult to exercise new rights to the full, as would be necessary for all people who need it. The insulin pump is, of course, a very important technological achievement for all patients with severe leading diabetes and not just for children, although for children it is of course the most important, because such cases are the most difficult to manage. The procedure for obtaining an appropriate right and also a right to an appropriate extent is already envisaged. This is a professional issue, not a political issue, and an appropriate extended professional college must propose a new doctrine and, if it is related to finance, the Health Council is finally discussing it. Let me mention that, in this case, there has not yet been an appropriate initiative for the rights of pregnant women with severe leading diabetes and, therefore, in some cases, an article that you have already proposed has been used by Member Podobnik, namely that the Commission of the Institute has exceptionally approved such treatment. It is our view that this difficult guide is an individual issue in one way or another, and it needs to be specifically defined. However, I am sure and so is the opinion of the professional bodies that there will be an initiative that will extend the right of children to some other groups of patients with diabetes, so that such a procedure can be regular and not just through exceptions. At that time, however, I can only ensure that patients who need this device can also obtain this aid through an exceptional procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Comrade Sponik, supplementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you for your reply, Mr Minister - and I follow your argument - but I would like to say that, as a Member, I have been specifically informed of two cases, in which case the patients are exposed to a rather complicated procedure, in which case the medical committee of the second level, which sets and decides on exceptional cases in accordance with the Rule of Procedure, which we have quoted earlier. Therefore, you advise the so-called individual principle, but I would only ask that, within the limits of the powers you have, you allow such cases, when they come to the appropriate instances, treated with the necessary sensitivity and speed, because unfortunately it takes a few months for someone to get seriously ill, maybe at the time they are also employed, working, and if this disease gets very much worse in pregnancy and a person is employed, it is very difficult to do his job. It's important every week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u112	Minister, would you like to add anything?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u113	Allow me only to agree, I could add an argument that the pregnancy itself does not wait a few months for the Commission to do its work and that is why I can only agree, but I think that in such cases it should simply not be necessary for it to be particularly necessary to write how sequential it is. Because the profession itself and the body itself should also have priority procedures in terms of the sensitivity you are talking about and should be aware of when to speed up their work.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much. My colleague Puksic will ask the question of the absent Minister of Economy. Comrade Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Following the current law on the promotion of regional development, 60/99 - The Official Journal, some development agencies, as the preparers of regional development programmes, both strategic and implementation work for individual regions, are completely unable to harmonise or interest all municipalities for real joint projects in these areas. Some regional development agencies clearly have short-term interests to coordinate between ministries in order to obtain, in particular, funds for the self-sustainment of personal rewards, promotions and education. And, of course, it's just for the "real" people. Such situations are particularly noticeable where the directors of the regional development agency deal solely with policies at the expense of regional development and which have the ambition to amend the law by means of sub-legislative acts and government regulations. In fact, this was Dr. Chelan's statement on national television as a representative of the LDS and a candidate for the Ptuj mayor. Such a collapse of the law on regional development will also lead us in Ptujska to the depression of the region, as expressed by Dr. Janez Drnovšek, candidate for President of the Republic of Slovenia, for the Maribor region. That is why, Madam Minister, I ask you. First time. When will you propose to amend the law on regional development? Another time. When will you, for God's sake, propose to the National Assembly the consideration of the law on the provision of funds to promote coherent regional development in the area with specific development problems in the area of Haloz, Dravska and Ptujsko fields and Slovenian mountains? The law was introduced into the National Assembly as early as April 2000. Third time. I ask you: Will you be sharing money again this year, not by content, but by alphabetical order, as it happened last year? How much funding will be allocated to the functioning of regional development agencies? How many projects per region? I ask you: What do the LDS official's strange statements predict that is professionally active in the field of regional development? And I ask you: What can the municipalities do if they do not agree with the share they have to contribute to regional development agencies and do not take into account the municipality's proposals?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. Do you insist that the minister answer you orally, or do you allow him to answer you in writing within 30 days? What's your decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u117	I certainly expect to get an answer now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u118	My colleague Pukšič, the Rules of Procedure governs the possibility when there is no Minister or Minister, then the Member may declare whether he wants an answer in writing or orally. Please, which option do you choose? Would you like the Minister to give you an oral answer at the next meeting? Please, buddy Pukšič. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u119	Mr. Jakič obviously wanted to propose something, but it's not in the context and it can't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u120	Please, buddy Pukšič. Please tell me what you've decided. Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u121	Given that there is no Minister, given that we have received very irresponsible or very inadequate answers to a similar question today, I would like the Minister to answer me in writing, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, or to have the Prime Minister answer the question raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u122	The Prime Minister cannot answer this question, at least not in the context of Article 247. Similar questions were raised today. Tomorrow, the National Assembly will decide whether they will be discussed. Please, buddy Pukšič. I think we've cleared up the procedure now. You ask the Minister to answer your question in 30 days in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u123	Absolutely. However, Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure states that the President of the Government, apart from those three questions addressed in person, may also be asked a question and is obliged to answer it within 30 days.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u124	But you've now addressed the question to the Minister. That's how you announced your question, Comrade Pukšič. It is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that you stick to both the content and the reference of the Minister or the Minister to which you refer this question. We've cleared that up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u125	Mr President, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u127	It's true that I addressed the secretary. It is true that I rightly expected to receive an oral response from the Minister today. If I were not satisfied, I could also request, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, to receive it from the Prime Minister. And since it is not here today, nor is the Minister here, because the answers to similar questions have been completely inadequate and because this is indeed a problem in this country, as the reports of the European Community have also pointed out, I am convinced that I have the right to request, with 247 articles, that I also get an answer from the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u128	I don't think so, buddy Puksich. In order to avoid any misunderstandings with similar requests from other colleagues, I must explain what Article 247 states: "If, for reasons of time constraints, the absence of the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government or for another reason, the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General has not been able to answer the question, the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General must send a written reply within 30 days which is published in the Gazette of the National Assembly. The Member or Member who has asked the question may declare that it insists on an oral reply; in this case, the question shall be included in the next meeting of the State Assembly." So it's not about accumulating your right to ask the Prime Minister or the Minister, but it's about asking the Prime Minister or the Minister in the context of this point. I think we've cleared that up. The Minister is obliged to answer your question, Comrade Pukšič, within 30 days. My colleague Mamić will ask a question to the Ministry of Transport. Please. My friend Mommy's not here. Then I give my word to my colleague Sam Bevk for a question to the Minister of Economy. There's a lot of questions for a minister who isn't, so she's gonna have to answer a lot by mail. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! As early as December 2001, the Idria Mining Supervisory Board adopted a revised long-term programme to prevent the consequences of mining in the Idria mine for the period 2001-2006. In 1995, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia commissioned the Ministry of Economic Affairs, together with the mine after 2000, to prepare new additions to the programme of closure and prevention of the consequences of mining for the period 1996-2006. There is no reasonable excuse that the government has not yet done so. The revised programme, in addition to the closure of the mine and mining damage, also includes for the first time an environmental rehabilitation programme due to the consequences of mining and improvement of health care for the people of Idria and former miners. The Act on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Mercury Mine of Idrija provides in its Article 1 that "the environment shall be protected directly above the mine and that the city of Idrija shall be protected from the consequences of the holding and other consequences of the long-standing mining of mercury in the Idrija Mine and shall carry out the remediation of these consequences; this Act governs the relationship of common importance in relation to the gradual closure of the mine and the provision of funds for this purpose" [[End quote]] . That's what section 1 of the law says. Unlike other closure mines, I have to point out that Idrija is directly above it with 6,000 inhabitants, that due to historical and spatial circumstances the mine and the city developed together, so that today there are several buildings on the ecologically disputed mining and arson remains, including two kindergartens. Here we face a major problem of high levels of dangerous gas radon. The question is still a great deal: from the return of state land and property to the fact that the closure of the Idrija mine due to the lack of funds from the budget is likely to need to be extended even after 2006. Minister of Economy Dr. Petrinov asked: When will the government finally adopt the revised programme of closing works in the Idrija mine, together with ecological and health rehabilitation, and provide additional financial resources for the last part of the programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u130	Comrade Bevk, will you be satisfied with the written answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u131	Yes, please, because Dr. Petrinov is not here to provide a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much. A colleague of Štemberger now has the floor to ask the Minister of the Environment. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. I am therefore asking the Minister of Environment and Space my question. The most common problem in young people trying to make up for themselves is certainly a housing problem. Few people can buy their own apartment, so most use renting apartments. The biggest problem is the lack of housing for rent in large cities. This is even more evident at the beginning of the academic year, when students who do not get a room in a dormitory need to find a rental apartment. Anyone who's ever looked for a rental apartment knows what kind of trouble a search engine has to face. Not only do lenders offer rentals that are totally inappropriate and require high rents, but they do not want to enter into leases most often or do not want to register them. The tenants do not usually complain about such a way because they fear that they will be homeless. While the lessors, at the expense of the tenants, serve in black fat and do not pay the duty to the State, the latter have no legal protection without the contract. The tenants can throw them out of the apartment whenever they want. Without a contract, tenants are not able to apply income relief, and tenants are often charged with costs that are not due and so on. Given that the country of registration does not legally encourage rents, we can expect the number of black apartments to continue to increase. I was wondering, do you have an estimate at the Ministry of Finance on how many such black leases? How much money does rent pass through the tax office? And: Is the Ministry preparing any measures to prevent these illegal leases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. Please, Mr. Mag. Digger, Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. At the Ministry, we estimate that there are between 6,000 and 6,500 rental contracts in Slovenia or rental arrangements for profitable dwellings, i.e. for profitable rents, and of course a very large share of this falls away from Ljubljana and some other major cities where higher education centres or school centres are located. Of course, the Ministry does not have direct control over this. Of course, the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which, after all, has, in accordance with the tax procedure law, even the possibility of determining the potential amount of rent if it finds someone who broadcasts the flat in black. However, I do not know that any such measures would be taken. But, of course, I'm really not in charge of that. I estimate that a lot of countries can't do so by force, but they can do more by providing additional offers for all possible different apartments. To this end, for sure - or for this purpose - part of the problem is trying to solve an additional supply of dwellings of all kinds, to which the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, together with the Housing Fund, is now launching. Let me mention that we are building this instant in co-investors with municipalities around 735 apartments across Slovenia, social and non-profit, and that we are trying to provide an additional offer with other measures. Among the government's activities in which this problem is sought, there is certainly an additional offer or planning for additional offers of student homes. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much. What additional question? [[No, no, ……]] We've exhausted that opportunity. My colleague Jerovšek has a question for the Minister of Health. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable ministers. Mr. Minister Keber, in your statement a few days ago, you assessed the situation in Slovenian hospitals as chaotic. In the context of your statement, it was not clear whether such an assessment relates to the whole situation in Slovenian hospitals and in particular to the consequences that such a situation would have on the patient who solves his medical problems in the hospital, or whether your statement relates to the treatment of doctors. It can be concluded from the subsequent reactions of the Medical Chamber that the statement was made in the context of your power measurement and handling with the Medical Chamber and doctors, which in itself is frightening. However, from some of the major anomalies revealed in recent months, with all the elements of criminal offences that concern, in particular, the rights of citizens to provide health services, it is clear that it has been a very chaotic health strategy and policy for a long time. This is also reflected in Slovenian hospitals. This is due to a complete lack of timely response by the Ministry of Health in the event of scandalous behaviour in a cell hospital. The fact that 3,000 histological tissue responses have not been reviewed and, on the basis of this, many patients have not received adequate treatment, a witness to scandalous behaviour and drastic violations of laws and constitutions, fundamental rights and professional ethics. So I ask: How many of the 3,000 patients whose cancer tissue examination was not carried out, are the people for whom the test will in any case be too late because they died in the meantime? Specify the exact number. Who will cover in compensation claims the damage caused by irreparable consequences, such as death or poor survival, due to the abandonment of treatment? How many lawsuits have been filed? Why have political preferences been so important in recruiting the most responsible places in the cell hospital in recent years, even during your management of the department? Why does the Ministry of Health put its head in the sand and put it into the account of fundamental constitutional rights in such a serious matter as an affair of unprocessed biopsy in a cell hospital, since this is enshrined in Article 51 of the right to health care? Is it true that tissue biopsy was performed only on the basis of specific recommendations? This is according to the criterion of status and political relations. Does your statement of the chaotic situation in Slovenian hospitals predict the discovery of similar behaviours as in the case of a cell hospital in other hospitals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Minister of Health. Can you rule out Comrade Jerovšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Since I will later answer a more direct question about my verbal delicacy, I might save this for Member Cukjati. More specifically, the story in the cell hospital. First of all, it is generally reported to this ministry that it responds too quickly to the health anomalies, not too slowly, even in your context I have actually considered the contradiction in your question - too slowly, too quickly. Second, mistakes. Of course it would be funny to say that they're showing up now. Errors, mistakes, irregularities, anomalies are an integral part of health life and a mistake in Celje, and of course I do not want to say that I am not somehow responsible for it. As you know, it has appeared for eight years and, in fact, has already been removed without intervention in this year's spring. Our response was immediate, as soon as we found out about him. However, some other professional institutions did not respond adequately, even though they knew about it. You give a bunch of detailed questions that require, almost to tell you, almost: who is to blame and to what extent is to blame. So let me say in general, as is the case with such procedures, especially when it comes to responsibility when it comes to life when it comes to financial compensation. Of course I can answer who's gonna pay. It'll pay for health care. If there's an appropriate lawsuit, the hospital will pay, and the hospital will pay for it. Depending, of course, on the level of hospital insurance and if its current insurance also covers such compensations. In general, I'd say that. The appearances in the cell hospital cannot be interpreted by an individual's error, but it can be interpreted precisely with what I used the word 'caity'. And I didn't use "cavalry" to handle doctors, I used it to team management. There are a lot of people involved in this hospital and in the responsibility for the investigation. Those who are working the investigation, those who are waiting for it, those who are waiting for it, and those who properly regulate it when it comes to too little labour in this area. The answer to the question why all of these have not acted for eight years, and then they have acted and resolved the matter within one month, without external intervention, is a very important question that we will have to do not only for the sake of the cell hospital but also for others. Allow me, not because I'd like to generalize such cases on everything else, so I can say yes, management in the public system. And hospitals are part of the public system. We do not yet have such levers when it comes to group responsibility to actually come, that even when an individual is partly responsible to ultimately be in charge of the patient together. In this context, we can also talk about the possibility that similar cases, not to such an extent, can occur elsewhere. If we talk about this, about the level of responsibility of the Ministry itself, I would like to tell you first - but you are probably not interested - that we have initiated a set of appropriate procedures, but that they cannot give an answer immediately. We have announced that the answer to such a difficult question will last for months, in some cases of the year; if it comes to judicial proceedings, it will probably take a very long time. We probably won't answer all the questions. But I can point out right now, because this suggests to me my conscience that such a mass phenomenon must have come from disclosures or at least the possibility of direct damage to an individual patient. We're aware of that. That is why these procedures will be all the more careful. However, it is important that these events do not generalize that the whole health care issue is such, but that we learn from these events what needs to be changed. And my statement, with the directors and not the doctors, from the administration of Slovenian hospitals, was specifically intended for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Jerovšek, would you like to complete the question?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, since I know your opinion of objective responsibility, your answer did not surprise me. But I'm not happy with that answer. You were saying they saved the whole thing in a cell hospital in a month. But you didn't tell me how they saved her. I specifically asked you how many people there are who can only be sent to them with the help of a funeral home. We know they're people who aren't alive anymore. Avoiding such answers is irresponsible in front of the Slovenian public. In this regard, I am also surprised that Mr President of the Prime Minister, Mr Drnovšek, is so insensitive in a case so widespread that it has such disastrous consequences. In this government, it seems that no one feels similarly responsible or assumes responsibility, as we have cases in Belgium when the dioxin affair broke out; they were instantaneous, immediately. Your answer was trying to relativize. I have asked very specific questions, six specific questions, and I have not received a concrete answer to one question. Since the outbreak of the affair, however, it has been extremely long and I do not believe that the matter has been resolved in a cell hospital if government representatives give such answers, which are merely evasive, simply evasive. I think that the fundamental human right under our Constitution, under Article 51, is the right to equal treatment. This constitutional right has been violated. It is said that people can also complain to the Constitutional Court, because there have never been as many people as there are now in Slovenia. I think these are extremely serious, relevant questions that require serious answers, not generalisation, relativisation and rounding. If you have specific answers, please give them to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u142	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u143	Mr Jerovšek, let me reiterate that the specific answers to such a sensitive problem as the one in the cell hospital can be given once it is fully explored. I just have to use your own criticism that premature pointing at possible culprits is also one of the readings you're referring to on other occasions to this ministry. Let me repeat that I have answered your question that if proven, responsibility will be properly recovered and paid, and those responsible for it will be duly called to account. Let me also say that we have ordered all Slovenian hospitals to study the possible waiting periods for the tests. But let me add, of course, that the phenomenon of waiting times, but in another context and not going into detail, of course, raises ethical questions also in this sense. Well, waiting for surgery isn't the doctor's fault, but it's the company's fault. Maybe it's Parliament's fault to decide on the amount of money it gives. I don't want to mix this with the thing that happened at the cell hospital where I actually play in the end for an individual fault, but I want to say that it won't be the same in this case. That's clear. It can't be just the guy who didn't do something. What did they do in one month? Of course, they decided to call on other colleagues. It was a simple solution. In such a case, the hospital should react, although such tests should be sent to Vienna and resolved. That's my answer. In such a case, it is possible to resolve the problem immediately at the level of reflection in each team’s view. The question is, why didn't this happen is what we're gonna have to ask ourselves? At this point, however, the issue is too sensitive to be exposed politically.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much. My colleague Franci Rokavec will ask the Minister of the Environment a question. Please, buddy Rokavec. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am sending a question to the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy, Mr Kopač. What are the reasons why the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has not yet issued a public tender this year for the granting of favourable housing credits or the provision of adequate housing for non-profit housing organisations? The fact is that most Slovene municipalities deal with the problem of providing adequate housing, in the form of renovation of older buildings, purchases or new buildings, because interest in this area is very great. Above all, it must be pointed out that very many young families are those who, among others, are the most urgent solutions to housing, but of course they do not have the housing problem solved, nor do they have the necessary financial resources to ensure housing problems. For example, there are 43 such applicants in the local community from which I come from for renting a non-profit apartment or a social apartment. Above all, as I have already said, they are young family applicants. That is why I ask you, Mr Minister: Why was this call for a housing fund not published this year? Will it be published this year, and why has it not yet been published? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you so much for asking. At this very moment, the 36th call for a housing fund of 3 billion dollars for help to young families as they secure an apartment in the self-building direction. However, the fact is that in its ten years of existence, the housing fund has granted more than 60 billion dollars of credit to natural persons, about 31,000 recipients of these loans, in short, more than 31,000 people have solved the housing problem with the help of the housing fund. In addition, the Housing Fund has so far granted loans to non-profit housing organisations. These are mainly municipal housing funds. So far, he has given about 11 billion in all years of his existence. However, it has been shown that, of course, the public funds set up by the congregation or by a number of congregations together contribute to the responsibility of the founder congregation, that the responsibility of the congregations reaches a limit and that it does not go any further. To help the congregations resolve their desire to provide additional non-profit and social housing, we had to take a different path. This is last year's trip. And so he went to the housing fund, where he was looking for the municipalities of co-investors to build non-profit and social housing. About 40 municipalities in Slovenia have visited and meet the conditions of invitation to tender. However, the tendering condition was that the offer price of the apartment was low enough to be below the limit set by the Housing Fund. In this way, we are building 734 non-profit and social dwellings all over Slovenia with various Slovenian municipalities. The Housing Fund gives money and the municipality gives municipally equipped land. Some congregations are still available, but many congregations are not in a position to expand their debt, so crediting the housing fund to nonprofit housing organizations would not do them any good. In this way, in my second approach, of course, we are helping to solve these problems even more successfully than before by sharing credits with non-profit housing organisations. With those 11 billion loans that the housing fund has so far given to non-profit housing organisations, 2 000 810 apartments have been built in the past 10 years, of which 2 000 339 have already been moved. So much for numbers. Otherwise, as the Member rightly points out, the problem of undersupply is, of course, an attempt to tackle this new investment or co-investor approach of the Housing Fund appropriately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you, Minister, for the answer in the form that it was possible. I have seen on the website that the alleged housing fund is only preparing a call for co-financing of non-profit housing organisations in providing adequate housing in this area. Of course, according to the information I have been able to obtain, they do not know when the invitation to tender will be published. But this is a question that you yourself have mentioned. 43 congregations decided on a new way to resolve the housing issue. Some congregations also have the opportunity to make a debt, but this tested practice could only be supplemented by a newer form of settlement of the housing issue. Therefore, I see no reason why we should not maintain that part of the aid to non-profit housing organisations in order to actually solve housing problems more quickly across Slovenia. I am therefore taking the initiative to try in this area, in spite of all the solutions, only to be complemented in this respect. However, not all congregations are indebted in this country so as not to be able to solve the problem in this way. However, the second question is that very few applicants, especially young families, are able to decide on their own. I think that's the key issue. Here we need to use a combination of solutions to housing problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the answer? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. As I said, this moment of potential funding for credit allocation is no more than 3 billion which are tendered under the 36th call. However, on the supervisory board - I am running the supervisory board of the Housing Fund as a function - we are working to support all forms of additional housing provision, i.e. on the offer side. Certainly also crediting non-profit housing organisations is part of this context, and we will also do so in the coming year within the scope of the available resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs Majda Zupan will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, representatives of the government, respectable assembly! The first of December and the second round of elections for the President or President of the Republic of Slovenia are on the move. We like to say that elections are a holiday of democracy. The holiday should also be for some 6,000 Slovenian citizens who do not have a permanent residence in Slovenia, but abroad, who also wish to maintain ties with their home country through the right to vote. Their numbers are not enough to affect the election outcome, however. Also this year, Slovenians around the world had a number of election problems. So we were reported from Sweden, Germany, Switzerland, and elsewhere. Some have not received the voting material in time, although the competent authorities have requested it within the time limit, many have also been sent to incorrect or incomplete addresses. Not long ago in this House we have considered the law on registering electoral law. The representative of the government claimed that the new law meant a step forward in this respect as well. In view of the fact that our host country will inform the host country in good time and in good time that the vote will be held at consular offices, that electoral directories will be prepared in good time and that the registration of electoral rights will be enabled so that the electorate can apply even on the day of the vote, even though it is not in the electoral directory, and can vote by confirmation. However, it happened that the Slovenian embassies did not provide appropriate information at all times. Our people abroad thus lose confidence in the country of origin and thus lose interest in the elections. They believe that this is largely the result of the country’s relationship with the natives and the expatriates. They feel that they are being held primarily by the official policy of the current authorities, including because of the complicated way in which elections are to be held, estranged and disadvantaged. They feel sad that they are no longer as valued as they were at the time of their independence when our country, along with them, sought international recognition. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, including for internal affairs, but he is not present. What are you going to do or what are you going to do that will prevent Slovenians from having such and similar problems in the second round of presidential elections around the world? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Dr. Dimitri Rupel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u155	Your Honor, my fellow Members, my fellow Members! I would like to say the following about your question. Firstly, I hope that you will also agree after I tell you what I have to tell you that our Ministry of Elections of the President of the Republic is paying considerable attention. We advocate that our citizens and citizens, with permanent or temporary residence abroad, should make the exercise of electoral rights as much as possible. We opened the polls at 34 diplomatic and consular offices. In addition to voting in the polls, our cousins have a wish, an opportunity to vote in the post office or in the country. Those who chose to vote by post were sent by the District Election Commissions with electoral cards that needed to be certified. In order to facilitate as much as possible the problem of large distances or distances to voters has arisen, electoral cards can be verified at all our diplomatic consular offices, with electoral card certification authorities appointed by the Republican Electoral Commission, or with institutions in the recipient country, with the right to identify and verify identity, or have the right to issue or certify public documents, for example, in the case of notaries. In Argentina, for example, where the largest number of electoral beneficiaries lives, I am talking about electoral beneficiaries outside our country's borders, there have been so-called eleven electoral card certification officers. I think this is quite a success for a small country and a small system such as our ministry. Citizens and citizens of our country who were registered in the electoral directory were personally informed by post about the voting method and the very course of the elections. Our relatives were also informed about the way elections and electoral events were carried out through Slovenian societies, through their press, on consular days, while numerous embassies announced the elections in the central media of public information in their host country. Information on the elections is also published on the websites of our ministry. They were also published by all the central newspapers in Slovenia, as well as the newspapers of our evictees and natives. The speciality of this year's elections was the news from the new law you yourself mentioned, the law on registering electoral rights. The law establishes a permanent register of the electoral rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. All those registered in the permanent register of electoral rights are entered in the electoral directory for the election of the President of the Republic. Our diplomatic-consular representations played a very important role in updating this record, where our ministry worked with the Ministry of the Interior. With their help, a large number of our relatives’ addresses, which have a permanent residence abroad, have been updated, and many new addresses have been obtained. For example, the fact that efforts to inform our citizens abroad have been successful confirms that only at the time of the deployment of the electoral directory, which took place before the first round of elections, were there more than 800 voters registered abroad. Much work has also been done in establishing a list of citizens of our country with temporary residence abroad. In general, 4,846 emigrants were thus enrolled in the electoral registers. The majority of voters took part in the first round of elections at the diplomatic-consular representation in Buenos Aires Last week, electoral directories were transmitted for the second round of elections, which were supplemented by the changes gathered after the first round of elections. On the day of the first round of elections, the Ministry of Interior, in cooperation with our ministry, organised an on-call service to cover all our diplomatic and consular missions on time. The on-call service, which proved to be very useful in the first round, will be organized in the same way, perhaps even better, for the second round of elections. From what I've said, I can say or you can say that the organization and the conduct of the elections abroad in the first round were successful. Our ministry has not been aware of the difficulties in voting our kinsmen in the first round of elections. The electoral committees at the diplomatic-consular offices have prepared very well and conscientiously for the first round of elections, so that the appeals against the work of the electoral committees and the organisation of elections at our diplomatic-consular offices have not been heard or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been informed of these complaints. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Even more, the newspaper Slovenians in Argentina Free Slovenia explicitly praised the election process [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u156	Mr Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u157	and, in particular, the work of embassies. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your answer. Madam Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I thank you for your answers, and I hope that the second round will be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The Ministry of the Interior or Minister Rado Bohinc will send you the answer to your question in writing. The Home Affairs Minister will be asked a question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Madam President. In recent weeks, we have witnessed quite a number of police conducts that, as it turned out later, have overstepped their powers many times or challenged them in a rather unusual way. All too often, the force was used. Later, we witnessed strange responses from the authorities, as in the case of a cyclist, where the police responded, from where he was injured, saying that a person with an unusually aggressive blow to the head at the edge of a police vehicle had damaged his lip. These exploits, supported by titles by the media, in style, innocent in foxes, a toothless biker and so on, arouse public distrust of police work and undermine Slovenia's reputation, and above all, human rights are violated. I wanted to ask the minister: Is it really about the will and ignorance of the police, or does the head not know what the hands are doing, and this makes the police more aggressive? This, of course, does not apply to the detection of crimes. Whether you are thinking or thinking after recent events, or someone else will do something to prevent such absurd cases from happening, such as additional education and training of police officers, stricter supervision, and control of the work of superiors who direct the work on the ground. If the Director-General of Police has already issued contradictory statements on the case, this is likely to affect police officers in the field. It is true that citizens, in contact with police officers, do not always act kindly. However, I believe that power and repressive resources are on the police side. Therefore, in the event of minor offences that do not in fact constitute a social danger, a more careful approach should be taken. I hope the minister sends me an answer in 30 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you very much. It is the duty of the Minister to reply in writing within 30 days. However, if you wish, you do not want to make a statement, but you could also answer orally, but at the next meeting of the National Assembly. It's written. Thank you very much. The Minister of Health will be asked a question by Mrs Silva Črnugelj. [[She canceled.]] Mr France Cukjat also asks the Minister of Health the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary! I repeat this question once again in a slightly different context. The media informed us of your finding that the situation in Slovenian hospitals is chaotic. Since hospital care for patients is an extremely team effort, the quality of which depends not only on the competence of individual workers, but also on the quality of the conditions and working conditions, they present a chaotic situation in hospitals to disrupt all patient safety. So I ask you: What is this chaoticity, what triggered it, or what caused it, and what caused it? Was chaoticity caused by a drastic decline in the knowledge and expertise of medical personnel or perhaps by a total breakdown of mutual trust and medical ethics? It would be hard to say, for in two years a person cannot forget all knowledge or lose all his moral values. Has chaoticity occurred due to the unregulated staffing and material conditions of hospital activity, due to the lack of doctors and nurses, or to outdated and inadequate equipment where the damage to one CT alone causes confusion and a dangerous extension of waiting periods? Did chaoticity result from a change in working hours that you proposed to the National Assembly on the nose without the involvement of hospitals and the management of individual clinics despite the warnings of doctors? You also find it worth the attention of traumatologists that new working hours do not allow a quality morning surrender of a job called a report and a visit, making it possible for a traumatologist to see his patients in the morning visit only twice a week. That's what traumatologists say. Cavalry probably didn't occur overnight, and it can't be controlled overnight either. Given that it goes through 350 000 patients a year through Slovenian hospital care, and at the moment I am speaking here, 9 000 patients have been hospitalized, I ask you seriously: What have you done in these 14 days after establishing the chaotic conditions for the protection of 9,000 patients currently in Slovenian hospitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u165	Dear Vice-President, honourable Member. Maybe first of all about the verbal delicacy I committed. The expression chaotic situation, expressed orally, does not mean a written declaration. If I had used an anecdotal case, in this session today, I have heard at least the most difficult expressions that described the situation in this country and were probably unfounded in all their power. After all, it is also the somnolence of expression. And if we insist on this, even when we have so-called work meetings, when we have work plans to make sure that we name the lie false, that every time we talk, we only talk about the percentage, then we will be accused, or we will accuse ourselves of becoming officials who hide the truth. Another thing, and I would not want to go in this direction, as some advise me, czech, because you can prove chaoticity in Slovenian health. I do not want to prove this, although many cases, which are still only a small percentage of what is going on in health care, put many people into question what is going on. In doing so, I do not mean those few professional errors that have been revealed, either financial fraud or the opinions expressed in the polls on corruption and on all of this. I still believe that the health system, and I have already said this in this House, works well in most cases and that the patient doctor's relationship and interaction between them work within the framework of the possibility in a way that we do not have to be ashamed of comparing with other countries. The use of the term was expressed in a meeting with administrative officials, hospital management, professional and management directors of hospitals, and no one objected to this expression in front of the crowded hall. But I'm experiencing from the non-participating meeting that I'm being asked, I'm fully explaining this chaoticity, and, as I said, I don't want to take the risk that again, through the individuality that happened at that time, he's showing who's to blame. What was meant by this in the context of speech? It was thought, and I also explicitly said this, the work of the medium and highest management in a particular hospital, the work that actually leads to a story in a cell hospital where there are individual responsibilities, where there is no organised view of how this is resolved. You could talk about the case that for 40 years, not 2 years, that we don't wait 40 years in waiting rooms for hours, that we don't order an hour in the public system, even though in a private system every doctor can arrange it in five minutes. I could talk about the responsibility of organising work where doctors continue to be deployed at the same time to the infirmary and to the department and to the operating room and are necessarily absent in two places. You could talk about the beginning of work and the end of work; you could talk about how half of the clinic goes to the convention and at that time the doctors run out; you could talk about the post office, and even though it has one post office, it works every day, and in health care it can simply cancel events. Finally, I could say that all of these events or most of them do not depend on the financial possibilities of the country. In every situation - and worse than possible - it is even more important to work as best as possible with the appropriate organisation. After all, even in war situations, we have a terrace that has to work well and not chaoticly. If he was particularly exposed to working hours - just for a short time - I am surprised that all Europe does not follow our example and starts working at seven in the morning; perhaps at six in the morning it would be even better, be an even better organisation and would suffer even less from the surrender of work or the efficiency of work in our infirmary. Of course, at this level, I would hardly lose words about why it was necessary, with many exceptions, to move working time to eight o'clock and why objections to this are simply objections that do not have a substantively reasoned basis. In short, only if they are responsible for such a situation. We are always approaching this and I always respond in a similar way: the Ministry of Health is responsible for the relevant policy, and it does so with many activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Tsukjat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Well, I don't think it's a verbal delinquency or, in sayings, a "hit at the bar" but a serious ministerial evaluation given before the officially convened hospital directors' forum. I don't see any reason why I shouldn't believe your judgment, at least in part. Look, hospitals still don't have contracts for 2002, contracts that set operating conditions. And since there are no contracts, on your proposal, on the proposal of the Ministry, the clinical centre or gynaecological clinic in Ljubljana recently reduced its artificial fertilisation programme by 170 interventions overnight, which means a reduction of 15% of the annual programme, the programme already running, the programme on which patients have been commissioned for half a year. But that doesn't smell like chaos? Or at least confusion, confusion created in some way by a confused health policy? This is exactly what we are repeating on these issues. I would like - perhaps we will not achieve this answer - that you, as responsible bearer, will ever be aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u169	The level of my awareness will, after all, be debated by Parliament or by voters in future elections on any occasion. I do not refuse to answer my awareness at any time, and I try to answer that question with what I am doing. Of course, the many questions you are pointing out do not answer what is really happening. On the contrary, it is the Ministry of Health that insists that the health system be granted the retained 3.5 billion tolars of this year's promised money and that the health insurance office, once again in its skin, justifiably rejects this money because it will increase its loss from 13 billion to 16 billion, and that this debate is still before us in the government. That means you're showing problems, and I could count a bunch of them that don't match what you're saying. We are trying to make sure that patients suffer as little as possible in order to provide as many services as possible in order to make work more effective. We are making reform changes to make money more efficient. In our mandate, this can be demonstrated by reducing waiting times and many other impacts, as well as by the reform we have announced, we will further contribute to these objectives. Of course, I find it difficult to answer all the details right now. But it will certainly be an opportunity on any other occasion, or of any individuality, to answer that question. I am taking this opportunity once again to point out that the health system, which, by means of health policy, needs self-questioning about its effectiveness and organisation and relevant legislation, also by means of health policy, needs an external decision of citizens through you, to what extent we want to support it. At this point, health systems in a much richer country are stuttering against problems that are very similar to ours under completely different financial assumptions. But I always want to say that it's not all that we have bad in health, and luckily it's not that big, it's always just money.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will raise the question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. Since last September, wages have increased by 10.3%. Prices rose by 7.2% during this period, while pensions increased by 4.1% at the same time. The wage-retirement gap is more than 6%. This is a pension reform that no one has been able to achieve by this year. But it succeeded with the amendments and with the amendment of this ruling coalition last year for Christmas holidays. That's what we've been alerting you to. This has long-term implications for receiving pensions. In fact, pensioners will lose about 75% of their pension at the annual level. The White Paper concluded that pensioners would bear the burden of stabilisation by half a year, based on these laws or changes to the law in last year’s year, ten times that. My question is: How will you solve the problem of those with the smallest pensions? As you know, basic things are the most at stake: bread, milk, and milk now even in this affair, we don't know what it's gonna be like, utilities and other things I don't list yet. So how are you going to solve this crisis and the social security of pensioners with the lowest pensions? The second issue, however, focuses on disability benefits or social transfers based on disability. As you well know, some disabled persons with 100% disability receive nothing, while others receive over 350,000 untaxed benefits. For some, it is also more than five hundred. At the beginning of your term of office, you promised that you would put these forms of social transfers under scrutiny and prepare for harmonisation so that there would be no duplication and I don't know what else. There's actually half the term behind you. I haven't learned anything about these results yet, but I'd like to know what you've done. Maybe I don't get it. Where do you see the grounds and conditions for such major differences that make this system discriminatory as well as offensive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please. Can you turn it off? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you very much for both your questions. Of course, both questions may require a very long answer. I will try to answer some of these questions at this time, which is at my disposal. Otherwise, we will have prepared a written answer in greater detail or even more. As far as the first question is concerned, I must make it very clear that there is actually a question of statistics here. First, you talked about an increase in wages since last September, and then you talked about an increase in pensions since January of this year. Let me start by saying that if we take the same measure, the same base, it is said that if we take the same period of pension growth and wage growth, from September of last year, the pension growth was higher, as it was up to September of the month, than the wage growth. You yourself know that the basis that holds the Slovenian pension and disability system is actually so-called intergenerational solidarity. This intergenerational solidarity is, in fact, ensured by the relative growth of pensions and salaries. Therefore, we need to look at what is comparable. If we look at each other and take January - September for pensions, compared to January - December of last year and take the same salary base, then you can calculate for yourself, but here I can also give you the information that this was actually raised by pensions of 7.9% and for wages was lower, 7.3%. Since pension growth and salary growth, as regards monthly trends, are of course different, pensions are harmonised once or twice a year, while wages are paid, and wage movements are upwards and downwards. It is said that you have certain months, as was the previous month when the wage movement was down. It is normal for each pension system to want to balance these issues. Therefore, in view of the recent developments in wages, we have also adapted or submitted a proposal to this National Assembly that it is possible, in addition to February harmonisation and in February harmonisation, also March harmonisation. The reason, of course, is that we are in a period of decline, if I say so, inflation in the long term and at the same time that the wage movement actually has some of the differences that did not exist in the previous year. Let me also say that the most important information for pensioners is that, this year, the proportion of pensions in salary, if we take the proportion of the average pension in average salary, has increased to 74.7%, and last year it was below 74% and 73.2%, respectively. This is said to be almost one percentage increase in some way if we take this share. If we take Germany as an example, this percentage is below 67% or about 67%. This is how, in this sense, a macroeconomicly balanced wage and pension movement is ensured. Given that pension reform is being implemented gradually, it is clear that it is necessary to keep track of these data on wage movements, pension movements and, of course, to respond appropriately when necessary. At the same time, of course, it is necessary to say, and you also know that in fact the lowest pensions always have the right to a protective allowance. As far as this protective supplement is concerned, I can say that it is essentially these beneficiaries, which is the September data, slightly less than 50,000 and 47,500, and the average amount is around 16.000 SIT. This question of yours was more a question of knowledge of statistics than actually this question. In this reply, I wanted to compare these comparable bases with each other. However, it is certainly one of the important areas for the government, and the government is constantly monitoring it. Let me also say that, in fact, this year's pension payments have also increased the proportion of pensions during the year. Another macro-economic data is important, says the proportion of pensions in the entire gross domestic product is stable and is more than 12% gross domestic product, 12.1% if we are looking at old-age pensions. This is about the first part of the answer. We will also provide you with these specific, more precise calculations in writing. And the other is the question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u174	Mr Minister, unfortunately, the Member of Parliament will probably require a complementary reply, and the opportunity will also be given for another explanation. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Really, an additional question. Now I have the opportunity to talk to audiences or viewers in front of TV sets, especially pensioners, to see what the September pension was like and, for example, what the October pension was like. I tell you that not even a 4.1% increase has been achieved because insurance has increased in the meantime, so there is not even this 4.1%. What has happened is a change in the base from which the pension is calculated. We call it actually a math scam, a trick. And that's what you did. Of course, Mr Financial Minister is very pleased, as far as this is concerned, because he has "split" in the pension register and the budget a lot of funds. That's right. But you need to look the truth in the eye and see who was behind it. This is a ruling coalition, but calculations were made in DeSUS and in the society of pensioners. It's about telling people the truth. Not all people are good with this protective supplement, either. State pensions certainly do not have a protective allowance. Not to mention some of the others. How will you deal with this issue? I asked you this question. How are you going to handle this? On the other hand, you didn't say anything to me, and it looks like time has run out, but I'd still be asking for a written answer, if not verbally. Many people with disabilities asked me how it allowed for such huge differences. 1 to 30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I am obliged here to answer this question once again or to actually operate on statistical categories that are not completely comparable. Let me just say that as of this year, the share of planned transfers, as far as pensions are concerned, has increased by an additional 15 billion. This has to be said because from your additional response, it was implicitly followed that these transfers had been reduced. No, they're getting bigger. And I also say once again that the pension system, as far as coordination is concerned, is such that it in some way balances pensions and pays salaries. In this year's year, and if we take what you took as a base, that is to say, September of last year and this year, and the wages of September and this year's, the pensions have grown more. Since we can expect a certain movement by the end of the year, there is, of course, February, March harmonisation, which we are proposing further. As far as September data is concerned, let me make it clear once again that the pension growth was January-December and January-September this year was 7.8, and wages were 7.2. It is normal to take on a system of intergenerational solidarity for balanced pension growth and wages. I think that this is what is in some way also the basis for some intergenerational agreement and on which basis the law on pension and disability insurance is also presented. I will, of course, provide you with this data, which has also been calculated by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. This will show all the statistics as far as this work is concerned. As for the other issue, I would say only that the basis for payment of individual benefits and the rest of what you have stated in your question is, of course, several laws. There are seven laws that were passed at different times. Let me say that we are making and we are practically at the end of this analysis. Clearly, the disability area was one of the least regulated. I agree with you. The laws that we have presented this year are called Sign Language Act, and some laws are being followed gradually in this area. What is of course important, and this question of yours is actually the implications of the law that we are preparing, this is the law on equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities. There are certain categories of persons with disabilities who, of course, do not have certain benefits, as are the other categories covered by these other 7 laws. And these will also be covered by the law on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons. It is clear that in fact these changes are possible gradually because they are [[End warning sign]] different categories and, of course, it is important that we do this with a thorough analysis.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u178	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Respectable all together! The financing of municipalities in our country is inadequate, especially compared to the financing of municipalities in the European Union. This inappropriate, inadequate funding of municipalities contributes to an ever-increasing gap between developed parts of the country and the underdeveloped. I have repeatedly asked why mayors and MPs should go to Ljubljana to kneel before bureaucracy and ask for individual funds for certain projects and so on, which could be substantially more appropriately regulated by the Law on Community Financing. Also, the economic development strategy - I hope that Mr Minister knows it - Slovenia is talking about the great financial weakness of municipalities and that, by supplementing the law on the financing of municipalities, the fundamental cause of the many financial problems of local communities will be addressed. Members of the National Assembly have tabled five or six proposals to amend the law. Over the past two years, a number of Member States have been asked questions and initiatives on this important issue. The promises made by Minister Rope were that this matter would be adequately resolved. The mandate of this meeting of the National Assembly has been extended to the other half, and we are not or are not - those who are particularly responsible in the coalition - to this day have done nothing in this area. We Members will continue to suffer the ignorance of Minister Rope on this issue and, to all, I can say, the false promises made by Mr Minister on 20.3.2001. I quote what he said: "I count that in the coming months, in the next month, two, we will come up with an appropriate solution or a proposal for a law." Today we are 25.11.2002 at 17.43, and nothing has yet been done in this area. Now I don't know if Mr. Minister still thinks it's 20.3.2001 or maybe he's moved today. Now I ask, or first of all, how do I warn Members, especially those who are mayors: Where are you, where are you Members from Prekmur, Styria, Dolenjska? Why do Members sell for change, and the basic issues of rural importance do you not want to resolve? At that, of course, I ask the Minister how long will the Minister be, for until he does, he will certainly not resolve this question: Who and when will this important question be resolved in our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mag. Anton Rop, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u181	Dear Members and honourable Members! I agree that in this case this is a very sensitive area that needs to be addressed. I can say that at the Ministry of Finance we have prepared several proposals for a new law on the financing of municipalities, but discussions have shown that it is extremely difficult to find agreement on the final form of this law. This is because, above all, it is necessary in law to define on the one hand how small municipalities will be financed, what is the attitude towards large municipalities, what is the attitude towards those municipalities that take on most of the tasks that concern regions, including the wider environment, for example, municipalities that have funding in their composition for various public institutions in different areas. In fact, without additional public burden, it is possible to prepare such a law only in such a way that it is taken away from some congregations and added to other congregations. And that is probably one of those fundamental reasons why, despite the various options, we have not been able to reach sufficient consensus to go forward with the law. That is why we were actually forced by the Ministry of Finance to prepare new and new versions of this law. Let me say that, in the meantime, there has also been the preparation of a specific project for the financing and establishment of landscapes, as you know, with the Ministry of the Interior, which has some things concerning the financing of municipalities, and in particular the financing, if you want, of regionalism in the future in Slovenia for a new opening. This raises a question regarding this law whether it may not be prudent to adopt it simultaneously when it is also identified for the financing of the provinces, for the financing of the regions and for the transfer of certain powers, of course also obligations concerning the financing of the province and the region, and thus certain original resources, both from the municipalities and from the country itself, and of course in the context of the increased rationality of the use of public funds in particular. In addition, there has been one very important change, why we have not actually been very hasty in the final definition of this law, which will undoubtedly cause much conflict. Many Members will oppose, in particular mayors or small municipalities or large ones, in short, those affected. This is also, of course, a financial package that we are negotiating with the European Community, and within this particular part of financing regional development, if you will, also rural development. I hope to say that we have made some progress in recent days, as far as rural development funds are concerned, i.e. regional development, and some progress concerning the Structural Funds. We all hope together that the Cohesion Fund will also, of course, reopen some of the issues that are very complex. Therefore, our assessment is that, together with the financing project of the provinces and regions, there is also a need to establish a funding project for municipalities. Otherwise, I would very much like to present some of the drafts to you, too, if you are interested to see how different options and different assumptions are and how different the relationship is immediately different mayors on this topic. In doing so, I can only say that the coordination continues and that we will try to harmonise it together with this broader project of regionalism, which I hope this coalition will present very clearly in this country. The regionalism project, the regional development project, the local community financing project and the faster promotion of the development of those regions that have been discussed today, and which has been reported to the President, the expression of the depressed region, although it is a fully stable term in the professional circles, the expression that everyone who knows professional literature knows is minimal in the field of economics. I believe that major changes are being prepared here, which are even wider than the funding of the municipalities themselves. When we arrive with this project, there will probably be an understanding of why it has lingered, deeper and deeper.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you. Look, Mr. Secretary. I understand your occasional efforts to resolve this issue. However, I do not agree with you in any way with the fact that we will wait indefinitely for the adoption of any regionalisation and so on and then jointly arrange for the funding of the municipalities. We don't have time to wait. Are you aware of the differences in financing or economic development and, in general, in the development between individual regions and individual municipalities? It's an unsustainable state. And why not simplify things at the government level and certain financial resources that are being distributed today by individual resources on a small scale, bring them together and give them to the municipalities and, of course, make the most economical and useful use of these funds for their development. And look at just one piece of data - Slovenia commits, this is data, Mr Bevk from it I prescribe it, as I said earlier, 20.3.2001 operated on this data - I just repeat it now, I hope it will not offend me - that Slovenia is committed to the municipalities of 4.4 gross social product or gross domestic product is probably thought here, but Scandinavian countries, for example, say about thirty. I don't know if that's true, but the difference is huge. The difference is huge, and we don't have time to wait for these things, so you'll just remember once that we'll sort these things out. I don't know why you Members don't want to do anything in this area - those who are responsible. And to ask the government that many of the proposals that you have sent yourself into the procedure - I can also write some if you want - you failed, say, to demand that you try to harmonise and implement yourself as soon as possible in the procedure. In short, I don't think we have time to wait, and Mr. Minister, tell me when this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u185	Well, I think we've opened up a very real topic, but with completely wrong numbers. I believe that Scandinavian countries have 30% of this kind of funding to finance at local and regional level, but, of course, they also have responsibilities, including obligations, including tasks that are decentralised, which are transferred to a lower level and, of course, have a very fair say, this needs to be made very clear here, including regions that are some of the same size as the whole of Slovenia. There is no doubt, however, that there is determination, I firmly believe, and coalitions and governments, that we will move on with regionalism, and I think that part of this debate is also transferred in the context of the debate on the constitution and, of course, you will also be able to very clearly demonstrate your willingness, your will to move on in this area. What I am explaining to you is that the output given is that only Slovenian taxpayers are being burdened with additional burdens and increasing public financial burdens, but that we are both transferring resources, transferring financial resources and transferring tasks, commitments and responsibilities for the development of individual regions and for the development of individual municipalities. Then the solution is complete. And that's what we stand for. We, when we started this project, when I first explained this to you, have actually prepared a law that meant redistributing part of the funds between municipalities and more resources for those municipalities that have objectively more tasks in the region, but now we are objectively in another position where, in fact, the promotion, financing and co-financing of municipalities is no longer the same and the same problem. We go to a second quality of regional development, second quality, if you want, also politically organised at this local level. And in this context, in my view, we have no choice but to work together: we are transferring commitments and funding tasks and resources. Then the solution is complete, and then, of course, we will be 100 percent on the same side, and I hope that you will support these solutions. This, however, has to do with the law on the provinces, both with the constitution and then with the special law on the financing of the provinces, if you will.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic will ask the outgoing Minister for Education, Science and Sport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! With the question I am asking, I would like to open up the issue of inadequate government policy to the ratio of wages and material costs in the entire field of science and education. In the field of higher education and science, the government has been giving in to trade union demands for several years to raise wages, and it does not solve the problem by making allowances for salaries in accordance with the trade union requirements. Instead, the burden created by unseemly government negotiators is on university professors, university educators and researchers. In parallel with the rise in wages, the government does not raise the corresponding budgetary resources in this activity. Since union agreements on salaries are legally enforceable, universities and institutes must pay them at the expense of material resources. On the other hand, material resources and salaries are in a legally and contractually defined relationship, and the administrations of these institutions, Deans and Directors are always at fault because they have to spend more money on wages than they are allowed under laws and contracts. In addition, the material basis for teaching and research is significantly poor in this way. It happens that certain laboratory exercises for students fall away because there is no material means to carry them out. Such a situation has become unsustainable, as in large cases they reach a very high percentage of all the funds set out in the contracts for the entire teaching and scientific work performed. In addition to salaries, these contracts explicitly provide for material costs, equipment maintenance, smaller investments and equipment and depreciation. At a time when we are creating the Third Slovenian University and at the same time stressing the importance of excellence for our young country in increasingly severe international competition, we want the highest Slovenian educational institutions and public research institutions mentioned explicitly in the budget with specific items. We are aware that these institutions must also receive part of the money on the market, but at the same time we need to ensure transparent growth of their basic infrastructure, their basic material conditions, and thus provide them with a basic means of survival. With the basic financial resources listed in the State budget being taxed, it is only possible to start a reasoned discussion of the funds used and at the same time their transparent policy towards education and at the highest level of expertise. I therefore ask the Ministry: In what budget line, with what additional resources will your Ministry provide the funds needed for these institutions in 2003 and 2004 to start working normally? Since the Minister is not here, I will ask if I can repeat this question again next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you may declare that you insist on an oral response; in this case, the Minister will give it to you at the next meeting. Do you insist on an oral response? Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will raise the question to the Prime Minister-General. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! So I'm asking the Secretary-General a question because he's signed on the documents I'm going to talk about. It is true, however, that it probably belongs to any other ministry, possibly the environment, agriculture or finance. It is about helping to remedy the effects of drought, cold and storms with a current in agriculture in 2001. The Government has sent decisions that are dated January 2002 and are allocating funds to help remedy the consequences that I have appointed. In those days, it is one year after the decisions on the allocation of funds have been issued, that is to say, the holders of agricultural holdings are given decisions that the funds have to recover, which creates unrest, astonishment and indignation, especially since they already amount to only 8% of all damage, as stated in the decisions. However, the surprise is so great that these government decisions take place on July 2002. That is to say, for exactly four months, these decisions have been going on somewhere. I ask: Where have these decisions been for four months, and why are they being distributed only now? Many say that it is not a case that they have now been sent out exactly after the local elections. And another question: Why are conditions changing? After the funds have already been allocated, there is one formula for allocation, and now it is explained why it is necessary to return because there is another formula. It is said that conditions have already changed through these events, and this is not the case. These are the questions I am asking the Secretary-General because he is signed. Now, if he's the most responsible person to answer that question, I can't say that. That's what he's gonna say. I expect people who have stopped by my house and I have some of these decisions in these days, but of course they expect an answer and this is an exact answer to this question. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Bandelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I think I will be able to answer about the system that works, but it is difficult to talk about this particular case or the specific cases that you have mentioned, but if I get these decisions, of course, I am also willing to explore how their path has flowed and how to give a precise answer to those farmers to whom they relate. I must say that I have not actually signed such decisions, but there is my facsimile, which is said to be some 10,000, because in the State Aid Act to remedy the effects of the drought, it provided for the Government to give this decision at the first stage, and, of course, provides for the fourth paragraph of Article 9 of this Law, that decisions are served by the competent mayors or the municipal service. This, of course, implies, or I suppose, that even in this way of service, there may have been some kind of discommunication or delay in the service itself. Although I'd say that in this case you mentioned, it's another phenomenon. Indeed, the fact is that farmers received and were entitled to payment of the compensation for the damage caused by the drought and that, of course, the final decision after this drought was calculated is essentially less favourable to the farmer than the advance he received. This is also why the competent services at the Ministry of Environment and Space, especially after the decisions have been formally issued, have specifically checked whether the calculations are correct. Because the fact is, as you've learned, it's painful cases, for a farmer, for sure, because the money he first received in a relative way must now be returned. There may have been some service delays in these cases as well. But as it is said, if you are accurate or if you are going to familiarize me with the information on which these cases are, of course, we will be happy to find out why the method of service was so long that it is only now that these decisions are being served. Of course, there is another option. I was informed about it today when one of the Slovenian mayors returned my decisions because he does not want to heat them because he claims they are not legal. Of course, it was a violation of the law, and it is likely that this solution, by law, by which the mayors must serve it, is not the most appropriate, but, of course, it was, in terms of mass, very operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. I can give this to you because specifically this case: I asked the person if I could operate on a name. He said, "You can give, because whatever happens, it will." So I'm going to make you a copy of this, and I'm going to give you a chance to figure out why the four-month delay is. I also asked the question: Why have the conditions under which this damage was being calculated changed? Indeed, this Decision correctly sets out on the basis of which the calculation was based, on which it was subsequently established. I think this has also led to different numbers, as you mentioned, probably less favourable, and that the ceiling, as far as I know, is 30,000 tolars - below 30,000 is not paid at all. We've somehow figured this out. And of course, this formula, which is now created, is significantly more favourable. In fact, every formula can be complemented so that you get what you want out. That's clear. It's not just, it's not a criticism of this case now, but generally. So I'm going to copy these documents and send them to you, and then, like you said, I expect an answer. Because these people who were with me, they want an answer. They probably won't be happy with him in any way if they have to repay the funds. Now that I have 30 seconds left, I would say only my opinion that I understand that the state may not have as much money as it would be good, or fair, or as much as those who have been harmed by this natural disaster that they are not guilty of. But I think it's very embarrassing to do this by giving someone money first, and then you find out, for whatever reason, that you can't give it to him, and then in a year, you give him a decision that he has to pay back. And that's supposed to be a lesson forward so we don't do that anymore. But if we say there's no money at first, we can't give. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary-General, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u195	Just two more sentences may not remain completely unanswered, although, as it is said, the answer will also come in writing. I can tell you, it's not like the marriage hasn't changed. I said before, the law was probably not the most appropriate, but from the point of view of repairing the damage, it seems right for me that the state is in charge of paying the deposit first. And that's what she did in this case. Of course, the final count may also show different numbers, different levels of damage and, of course, a different decision. Of course, it's professional decisions. I cannot comment on how the commissions and the competent workers handled this damage. This depends on every particular case. And that is also why I think it is right that you actually get an expert and concrete answer to this question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government very much for the answers given. Thank you very much. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you so much and good night.
