ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u1	We'll start the 14th session. A lot of colleagues are excused because of their many obligations, so it is all the more important that we be joined by those who have not apologized. I ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to inform them to remind their colleagues and colleagues that the meeting is beginning. Please, if you can come to the hall by inserting cards into the voting apparatus so that we can approximate the presence of colleagues and colleagues. Once again, I would like to point out that many other obligations are less present than they are. I'm going to point out the presence in the hall, so once again, please put the ballot in the voting machine. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let me inform you which of the colleagues and which of the colleagues are unable to attend today due to the suspension of the meeting. These are colleagues of Battelli, Jelinčič, colleague of Montenegro, Lavrich, colleague of mag. Vizjak, Tukjat, Kangler, Dr. Brac, Horvat, Kacin, Brenčič, Germič, Gasparini, Dr. Kebric, Levič, Partljič, Spindler, Štemberger and colleague Janc. Now, please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're picking up the presence in the hall! I think there's more of us in the hall. Is it not working? Can I ask my colleagues to do it again when I do it again? [[...]] The card was poorly invested. I'll re-examine the presence. Peace in the hall! I'm detecting presence in the hall for the first time! Please make sure the cards are properly inserted. There are over 46 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The National Assembly is closed and can decide. I have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this meeting, and I welcome them very much among us! Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 12th meeting and the 14th extraordinary meeting. They're logs, colleagues and colleagues, looking into the computer network. Does anyone have a proposal to amend, to supplement, any other comment on the minutes? I guess not. We will then decide first on the adoption of the minutes of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote on the adoption of the minutes of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. The attendance, at least that's how it's written, isn't enough. And I think there's enough of us in the hall to make decisions. I'm asking for peace, or I'm going to stop working to calm down and work normally. I will put to the vote the proposal to adopt the minutes of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. There are 49 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall, 37 supported by the proposal, and 1 opposed it. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the minutes of the 12th meeting have been adopted. In the absence of any comments to the minutes of the 14th extraordinary meeting, we are also taking a decision on this minutes. We're voting. We vote on the proposal to adopt the minutes of the 14th extraordinary session. 48 in attendance, 38 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] The minutes were adopted. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda with reference to 12 March this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. First, we will move on to proposals for the withdrawal of individual items from the agenda. I am informing you that the Foreign Policy Committee has proposed to the Assembly to withdraw from the agenda: a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement on International Occasional Bus Transport of Passengers - this is the 13th point; a proposal for a law on the mutual ratification of trade marks for handguns and rules of procedure with annexes one and two - this is the 14th point; and finally, a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change - this is the 20th point. I am informed, colleagues and colleagues, that the government has a different position regarding the withdrawal of one of the points, so we will vote on all three proposals separately. We will first decide on the proposal to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on international occasional bus transport of passengers. The government wants to explain its position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Foreign Policy Committee has considered the proposal for a law on ratification of this Agreement and has suspended the meeting because no financial implications have been known.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u3	Excuse me for interrupting. There must be peace in the hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u4	The Committee suspended its consideration of the law on the ratification of the agreement because no financial implications were known. The government has put forward a proposal or opinion, finding that the law will have no financial implications. Therefore, we ask or propose that the item remain on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u5	So, contrary to the Committee, the government considers that the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement on international occasional bus transport of passengers remains on the agenda. Is there any other group that would like to present its position? I'm asking if any of the board's representatives would like to clarify their position? [[No, no, ……]] The national assembly will then decide on the Committee's proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda and the government has a different position. We are voting on this proposal from the Committee. We are voting on the committee's proposal. 51 present, 24 supported by the Committee's proposal, 17 opposed. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that we have supported the Committee's proposal to withdraw the agenda item. We will also decide on the proposal to withdraw the proposal for a law on ratification of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Marks for Handguns and Rules of Procedure with Annexes 1 and 2. Would you like a representative of the board to say a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] We will therefore decide on the Committee's proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. We're voting. We vote on the Committee's proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. 55 present. 45 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that we have accepted the Committee's proposal. Finally, the Committee also proposes to withdraw from the agenda a proposal for a law on ratification of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Would you like a representative of the board to say a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I don't see any interest in that. We can move on to a decision on the Committee's proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal by the Committee for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda. 55 present, 35 for, 13 versus. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I don't have any other motions for withdrawal, so we can move on to extensions. Proposals for an extension of the agenda. I inform you that the Mandate-Immunity Commission has proposed to the assembly that the agenda should be extended by setting out a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I would like to inform you that the report on this is in reproduction and that you will soon get it on the bench. If anyone thinks it's gonna keep going, it's already on the bench. [[...]] Is everyone on the bench? [[Yeah.]] Okay. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda with the Commission's proposal for mandate-immunity issues. Let us vote on its proposal to extend the agenda. We are in the middle of a vote on the Commission's proposal to expand the agenda. There are 52, 50 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Comrade Jerovšek, your microphone is on. Under the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, the Commission proposes that the agenda should be extended by considering the amendment of the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, are prohibited from doing business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. Does the President or the representative of the commission want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda with the Commission's proposal. We're voting. 53 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that we will treat this point as item 1.a of the agenda. Members of the Slovenian delegation I apologize. [[...]] My friend Anderlič would like a word at the point of enlargement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u6	I am aware that the issue addressed by the proposal for an annual programme for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2002 is quite difficult and, above all, that it needs priority treatment given that we are practically the end of March and that for normal tendering and award procedures, both the ministry and Dars need, at best, both for several months, at the worst, which is, unfortunately, usually true even for half a year, and this would mean that this item of the agenda should only be dealt with in April or possibly as a transfer point in the month in order for this season to be threatened. However, we are all aware that, at the time of the consideration of last year's programme, a number of decisions in the National Assembly have been made in such a way as to minimise the backlog in the construction of the highway network and, of course, to the flow of fresh money by collecting as much of this programme as possible. The proposal for an act is in one-phase procedure and also meets all business conditions, so I propose that we extend the meeting also with the point of the "Proposal of an Annual Plan for the Development and Maintenance of Motorways for 2002". At the same time, I regret and express, like many in this assembly, the criticism of the Government that it came so late with this programme, because, unlike previous years, the budget for 2002 was very early, i.e. in November 2001, and I expect, at the same time, that the programme for 2003 will be prepared as soon as possible, at the latest for the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u7	It is a one-phase procedure, for which no report is required before the initiation of the hearing and the work of the national assembly. Whether we put this on the agenda will be decided by the State Assembly by vote. First of all, we have a procedure for clarifying our views. Secretariat, you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Emissary groups? Dr. Bajuk, then a colleague of Dr. Podobnik's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u9	Just a moment, because they raised the hand of both of the same members of Dr. Bayuk's delegation, five minutes. Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Can I give my colleague three minutes?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u12	Very briefly, Mr. President. We in New Slovenia are very concerned that today - and I agree with my colleague Anderlic - it is only today that we get, perhaps, to deal with the 2002 programme. This is one of the key infrastructure programmes of our country and it is really unacceptable that we do not have this today. It is totally unacceptable, however, that we get one piece again, for 2002 only, and for these reasons, as already clearly presented by colleague Anderlič, we know that there may not be any such implementation as is expected. So the question we have to ask the government is when will we get the 2003 programme. Obviously, we haven't gotten this yet, they're still putting it together, and I don't know when it's gonna happen. It would normally be in a country that is so solemn and so happy to adopt a budget for two years that we would have a little more on this key programme than a promise to think about it again. I would like a clear response from the government when this National Assembly will receive the programme, the 2003 motorway programme, which should be in line with all changes in public finances and should have a two-year scope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u13	This was the position of the New Slovenia Group. The SLS Group wishes to clarify its position. A colleague of Dr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have the impression that the microphony is very resonant. Maybe the technical services will reduce the strength of our performances a little bit. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support "the proposal of colleague Anderlič to expand today's meeting with the point of the proposal for an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2002". Some fellow Members rightly expected at the same time to have a proposal on the table for an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2003, especially because we have adopted a two-year budget. But it is true that there are no legal conditions. So it was not the duty of the government to draw up both annual plans at the same time. According to the data we have, today the State Secretary of Government at the College meeting has already made this public, and the government will be considering and proposing to the National Assembly an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2003. We are also aware that the relevant department, together with the professional services, is very intensively preparing the rebalancing of the highway programme and that it is likely that the national assembly will face it before this year's parliamentary holidays. However, since the content of the proposal for an annual development and maintenance plan for motorways is also linked to very complex procurement procedures, we believe that it is appropriate to consider and adopt this act at the March meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you. Now, with regard to the volume, Comrade Podobnik, the views of the National Assembly have finally become more receptive. So it could be attributed to this. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. We support the proposal to put this item on the agenda for this meeting. We're on March 19th. Before the matter is clear, it will be April on the door, and we know how the process goes, to public procurement, to choices, to complaints and all that, and we will start the programme in the fall if we do not get it on the agenda and adopt it as soon as possible. We absolutely support the inclusion of this in today’s or this session. However, I also agree to receive the 2003 programme as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u17	Does any of the other members of the group want a word? Comrade Kelemin, SDS MP.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you very much. In principle, because of the possible economic damage that could have been caused in this area due to the delay, we are virtually unable to oppose this proposal, although it is precisely because of this momentum that is constantly taking place by the government and by the rape of the National Council for the Rapid Adoption of Certain Laws, that there is always a fear that the traps are hidden, which are the basis for us to try in the fastest and easiest way to impose certain things that may not be carefully thought out and worked at all. Indeed, on the basis of the conclusions - Mr Anderlič knows this well - the Committee, first of all the Infrastructure Committee, should have a long time ago in the National Assembly a rebalancing of the national highway construction programme, on the basis of which we can then make the next plans that we now intend to adopt, is said, for 2002 and for 2003. It's not, and it's not, and I don't know why it isn't. And I can't have any other feeling than trying in some easy, easy way to be aware of the national assembly and then all of a sudden to carry out those projects that are just some government options that are the most attractive. We certainly do not agree with such a concept and would only propose to improve this proposal, which Mr Anderlič has put forward, that this point should then, if we have to include it, be discussed next week on Wednesday afternoon so that it does not happen on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Comrade Aurelio Yuri, United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u20	Our Group also supports the inclusion of this item on the agenda. I mean, three months have passed, of course, and it would not be responsible to continue to postpone or leave the programme only for the April session, so of course we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u21	I note that none of the members of the Group has spoken against the proposal to extend the agenda. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Dr Bajuk asked the Minister for the position concerning the Prime Minister, please have the floor if you wish. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. So the government supports the inclusion of this point on the agenda. However, since the issue was mainly about the 2003 plan, I must say that this plan has already been placed on the agenda of the government's meeting, but the government has decided to try to find additional resources or to try to partially correct this 2003 plan, and this will, of course, be very shortly done and also forwarded to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We will now decide on the proposal made by colleague Anderlich to extend the agenda to this point. Please, let's vote! We are in the middle of a vote on the proposal to expand the agenda. There are 60 colleagues and colleagues present, 55 supported by the proposal, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have adopted this proposal; we will put it on the agenda as point 20a, which is behind the rules of procedure. As a point of 20. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws on a rapid basis. The National Assembly has adopted a proposal for the adoption of a law amending and supplementing the law on public finances and the proposal for a law on inland navigation following a rapid procedure at its previous 13th meeting, so there is no need to re-decision on this. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a postal service law. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. I'm asking the government representative if he wants a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote to adopt the proposal quickly. 55 present, 41 for, 12 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Mr Rokavec, a fellow Member of the Parliament, submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the veterinary law. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the proposer want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother labour body supports the adoption of the proposal. Does his rapporteur want a word? Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? Would you like a representative of the government? I give my word to the representatives. Would you like a word? [[...]] That's your decision. Do you want it or not? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I am voting on the proposal for a bill to be dealt with quickly. We're making a decision! We decide on the proposal to adopt a proposal for a fast-track veterinary law! 53 present, 47 to, 3 to. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Defence Act. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? Representatives of parliamentary groups? I find that no one wants a word, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. We vote on the proposal to adopt the bill in a fast procedure. I'm asking for peace in the hall! 58 present, 46 in, 4 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I'm asking for peace in the hall! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled for consideration a proposal for a law amending the law on the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the Lower Sava. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body has not been defined until this proposal. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? Neither do I. So we can move on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. We vote on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. 56 present, 43 in, 2 in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Mr Anton Anderlič presented a proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council and proposed that it should be adopted in a rapid manner. Does the proposer want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the draft Rules of Procedure by means of a rapid procedure. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? Representatives of parliamentary groups? My friend Sok. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and Members. We do not support a rapid procedure in our Group of Members. The National Assembly has already discussed the subject of the Rules of Procedure, but we lost a lot of time then, but we did not adopt the Rules of Procedure at the end of that time. At this point, it is a new text and we propose that this time the Rules of Procedure be also dealt with on a regular basis. We do not see any extraordinary situation in the country for which the Rules of Procedure should be adopted in a swift manner. We also point out that unless this proposal is adopted, we can spend a lot of time around this point. We believe that there is still something else to be agreed on in the Rules of Procedure Commission and we propose to the National Assembly that this point, however, should be dealt with on a regular basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u25	This was the position of the New Slovenia Group. The position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members will be presented by Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! We also believe in the Socialist Party's Group that there is no need for such important matter as the Rules of Procedure to be dealt with quickly. Even more, we believe that, to some extent, there are no conditions for this item to even be placed on the agenda of this meeting, because we do not yet have an opinion, the expert opinion of the secretariat for legislation, and, in fact, so far, we can only talk about procedural matters. But all else is time left and it is forceful to seek a solution, for if there is a quick procedure, then we can wait for this expert opinion. We believe that this wastes time and consumes the time it takes to adopt European legislation, rather than making it possible for us to do what the proposer suggests and justifies, and we are doing the opposite. For European legislation, which is certainly important, we will run out of time and therefore do not support this proposal for a rapid procedure in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. He wants another word from one of the members of the group, otherwise let me say that the terms of the hearing are met. Does the proposer want a word? Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u28	Half a year later, on 5 October, we adopted the Rules of Procedure in the previous procedure, so six months later, and at that time we found that two more, three questions could be clarified on the basis of the text adopted in the second reading, including the amendments adopted and the harmonisation amendments adopted, so that the procedure for adopting the Rules of Procedure could be continued or reopened. Of course, it's a new procedure now. However, this is the content that has been prepared in six years in expert groups prepared by the services of the National Assembly, in which Members of all parliamentary groups participated, in two terms, that our Rules of Procedure are virtually completely different from those of all European Parliaments that participate in the process of enacting laws, just as we want to adopt laws in a comparable way with them in the perspective of being members of the European Union. We have undeniably been warned every year by the Commission that Slovenia has a slow procedure, that every law requires three readings in Parliament and that it will not be possible to adapt our legislation to the European Union, nor will Parliament itself be comparable. However, given that the following observation was made in this Chamber on 5 October 2001, we think that we are fully proposing that what we have agreed on, and we have agreed on many things, this is true, becomes harmonised and we are starting from this foundation into a new procedure. I think we can get to the new rules of procedure very quickly. These are the words of the opposition's parliamentary group. On this basis, therefore, this Rules of Procedure builds on harmonised matters and for the benefit of the State, it is certainly for the benefit of the citizens that this Rules of Procedure should be adopted in the fastest procedure, as was then said in this Chamber on 5 October, so I think that the procedure is justified and I propose that we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the opportunity to present the views of qualified speakers. We will move to a decision on the proposal to adopt the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a rapid basis. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal for a rapid procedure in the proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Excuse me. Contract for the operation of the device. My friend Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u30	The machine's not working.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u31	Can I ask my colleagues not to press presence now, but please press one of the keys. Does it work? It's working. We will repeat the vote because the opposition was made during the vote. So, I repeat, please peace in the hall! [[...]] I propose that we re-decision on the proposal for a proposal for a Rules of Procedure to be adopted in a swift manner. We decide on a proposal for a rapid procedure. 60 in attendance, 42 in, 16 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network. The Council proposes that I adopt it in a swift manner. I'm asking the government if he wants a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports such a procedure. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. We can decide on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 58 present, 47 to, 3 to. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Emissary colleague mag. John Kramberger submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local elections. The Assembly proposes that we adopt it quickly. Does the proposer want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body does not support the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? I ask, do they wish to present the views of the Group of Members? [[They don't want to.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local elections should be adopted in a rapid manner. We're voting. We vote on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. Peace in the hall during the vote! 55 present, 39 for, 10 versus. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We will now move to a debate and a decision on proposals for the adoption of short-term laws. I'm asking for the necessary concentration in the hall. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products, as well as substances that come into contact with food. The Assembly proposes that we adopt it quickly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother’s working body agrees with such a proposal. Does the rapporteur still want a word? Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. I'm closing the debate. Before I move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt legislation after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. I am voting on the proposal to consider the proposal for a law on amendments following a reduced procedure. We are voting on the proposal for a shorter procedure. 57 present, 46 to, 5 to. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] The proposal was adopted. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing a bill on amendments and additions to the law on local self-government to the Council and is proposing that we adopt it in a reduced procedure. Does the government want a word? I guess not. The mother's working body agrees with the proposal. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. No one wants a word, so I conclude this debate, and this time I also point out that the proposal will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. I therefore point out that this motion is put to the vote. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal to decide on the bill in a simplified manner. I ask for peace in the hall, we are in the middle of a vote. 51 present, 38 for, 5 vs. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that we have accepted this proposal. So, dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose today's agenda meeting, which you have received with reference, and with the amendments and additions adopted. I propose that we vote on the draft agenda as a whole. We're voting. There were 59 colleagues and colleagues present, 47 of whom were in favour, 8 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that we have fully adopted the agenda. Before we go to A1. point, therefore, to appoint a candidate to replace our fellow Member, I would like to remind you that today we discussed at the College the placement of certain agenda items in the decision-making process at this meeting. On Tuesday, 26 March, we would first decide on the appointment of Constitutional Judges, then proceed to the examination of the European report, and start on Wednesday morning with the Rules of Procedure, i.e. with the 27th point. That was our deal, and then we'll continue with this roadblock. So, these are all the notifications that are necessary for a normal start to work. Before I set a break until 3:30 p.m., we will also discuss the A1 POINT OF THE DAY - THAT IS THE DETERMINATION OF THE CANDIAT, WHICH IN ACCORDANCE WITH 17. A member of the Law on Love in the National Assembly becomes a messenger for the remainder of the period of office, instead of the messenger who gave him the mandate. On 7.3. the National Assembly noted with regret that the Member, Mr Anton Delak, had terminated his mandate under the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members. The Republican Electoral Commission has forwarded to the assembly the conclusion that the term of office of the Member concerned, Mr Anton Delak, has passed on to Mr Franco Lenk. The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-immunity committee, which reported in writing to the assembly - you have a report before you on the bench. I ask the rapporteur if he wants a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I don't see any interest in that. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking for peace in the hall! The term of office of Mr Frantz Lenk, born on 17 July 1936, resident in Šentrupert, 32, shall be confirmed. We are voting on this proposal. We vote on the confirmation of the Member's mandate. 56 present. All 56 have been confirmed by the delegation's mandate, so I am pleased to invite a new colleague, Mr Franz Lenk, to join us. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] [[Let's hear it.]] Comrade Lenko, welcome aboard! We'll have to make another decision. With regard to the recommendation of the Rules of Procedure Commission of 30.5.1996, I propose to the assembly that we also adopt the following proposal for a decision: "To the possible changes in the composition of the working bodies, a fellow Member, Mr Franz Lenko, shall act as a member in all the working bodies whose membership was Member of Mr Anton Delak, who terminated his term of office." Anyone want a word about that? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we'll vote on it. Please, let us vote on the proposal that until any changes in the composition of the working bodies all the activities of colleague Delak are carried out by colleague Franz Lenko. 56 present, 56 for, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that this proposal has also been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I will suspend the session until 3:30 p.m. when we begin the questions and initiatives of Members and Members. We'll start the session right away. Until then, I'm breaking it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u32	Colleagues and colleagues! Good-bye, everyone. It is also a nice greeting to the Prime Minister and his ministers and ministers. Please take your seats to put your cards in the voting machines, and I'll check the presence in the hall. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm gonna have to rediscover the presence. I ask my colleagues and colleagues to come from the lobby to the large debate room of the National Assembly, to see the presence in the Chamber and to move on to the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions and initiatives from Members and Members. Allow me to inform you in advance that instead of some ministers or ministers, the Secretary of State in the Ministry will answer your questions: instead of mag. Antona Ropa Mrs Helena Kamnar, Igor Kušar and Darko Končan, instead of Minister Rihter Cyril Baskovic, instead of mag. Ivan Bizjak, Minister of Justice, Karel Jerjevec, instead of Dr Rupl Samuel Žbogar and Dr Iztok Simoniti, instead of mag. Franca Buta, Minister of Agriculture, will answer Darko Simončič and instead of Dr. Vlad Dimovski Staš Baloh-Plahutnik. In the absence of Anton Grizold, Minister of Defence, Dr. Time or Secretary of State Deželak will answer questions in this area. Now I'm going to rediscover the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 53 Members and Members present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS AND BUILDINGS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. I read the ministers' apologies, told them who would answer your questions instead. I would like to reiterate that, in accordance with the agreement we have reached at the meeting of the Heads of State and Heads of Parliament, the Chair is very strict in ensuring that a question is raised and only a question sent to take into account the length of the response, and we ask the representatives of the government to stick to the time for reply and that they do not, as a rule, respond with an answer that is longer than 10 minutes. The first three questions will be raised by representatives of opposition parliamentary groups, colleagues Janša, Vnučec and Bajuk. First of all, he will be asked a question by his colleague Janez Janša, Prime Minister Drnovsk. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I want to know: What does the government intend to do to address the concerns of inflation-inciting or worrying inflation growth, which is now three times the nominal criteria of the European Union at the annual level in Slovenia? As a reflection on this same subject, I am also interested in: Has the government carried out any consultations with the Bank of Slovenia, which also has instruments for curbing inflation? I want to know: Does the government, despite the urgency of measures to curb inflation, still insist on economic growth as announced this year in the budget memorandum? I want to know: What will the government do to ensure that anti-inflation measures do not increase unemployment, which has also increased significantly in recent months? And of course I'm interested: How will these government inflation control measures affect the situation of exporters representing the backbone of the Slovenian economy? Let me also say right away that we expect more concrete answers than were given at yesterday's government press conference, when it was said in the sense that this rise in inflation is more due to some external and objective circumstances and that in the coming months when it will be no more, inflation will calm itself. We don't believe that. In some ways, such a forecast has depreciated today's inflation of oil derivatives, which will in itself contribute 3 tenths of a percentage point to March inflation. Nor is it convincing to see how inflation growth, the latest beginnings and the predicted sentences, unemployment growth, disorder and also the large imbalance between public sector wages present somehow unrelated phenomena and consequences and that this is all in some way, on the one hand, the result of known circumstances and, on the other hand, the unrealistic demands of trade unions and employees. We are convinced that all of this is very interconnected and is particularly related to the major delays the government has in recent years in some of the urgent reforms that have not yet been completed or some have not even begun. Mr President, I ask for as many specific answers as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much, colleague Janez Janša. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u35	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, honourable Mr Janša! As far as inflation is concerned, my responses to the press conference yesterday were as appropriate or as appropriate as the situation and the situation were. The movement of inflation at the beginning of this year, in the first two months, would be higher in line with our expectations. Because at the beginning of the year there were some specific reasons, such as an increase in value added tax, excise duties and certain controlled prices increased at the beginning of the year. And it is not something that would change the projection that the government has prepared for this year and on the basis of which calculations are also made in the budget and in other acts. We are still counting on inflation to be as predicted. This year's average inflation is 6.4 per cent and 5.7 per cent respectively. I mean, on the December-December annual level. These movements do not constitute a derogation, so the current movements do not constitute a derogation from this objective. It is true that there could be a derogation if external factors were to increase unannounced, in short, energy prices mainly, i.e. oil and perhaps some currency movements. However, the change in the oil price that has now taken place in these days is accounted for in this year's projection and so far there is no reason for a different assessment and not for any particular concern. It is clear, however, that the government will closely monitor this issue, we also count on Banka Slovenije. We consult with Banka Slovenije on a case-by-case basis; both institutions are, of course, independent in their operations and exercise the measures of each of their respective competences. However, our assessments, I repeat, are still the same as in the preparation of the annual acts, and the government has not yet received any other proposal or different assessment, not by our institutions, specifically the Office, such as the Office for Macroeconomic Research. The second concerns the issue of unemployment at the beginning of the year. We note that there has been a slight, very slight increase in unemployment in recent months, particularly in December, January. However, in these two months this is usually for seasonal reasons. In the course of last year’s year’s unemployment was largely falling and reached even the lowest points throughout the decade. Since then, since October, there has been a minimal increase, in part because of seasonal reasons, but in part also a few, but in a very nice form, due to the recession in world markets, which have to a certain extent, although much less than in other countries, also affected some of our companies, which in these circumstances were not able to increase their exports as well. The government, of course, is monitoring these movements, and we value every job, every job individually, and this is actually our persistent goal. However, of course, I must say that the unemployment rate in Slovenia is lower than the European average, that according to the methodology of the global organisation of work it is still below 7 per cent, that registered unemployment has also fallen in last year and, as I have already said, has risen slightly in these months. However, data at the beginning of the year show us, in particular in January and February, that a significant number of new jobs are being created and that, despite the external adverse conditions from this point of view, movements are not poor and that our economies, our businesses, are maintaining dynamics and are well fighting, despite the acute external conditions. The answer is, therefore, that the government does not change its forecasts, even as far as economic activity is concerned, economic growth in 2002. Our estimate of 3.6% of annual growth is moderate, we might say conservative assumption and is not very optimistic. If economic activity were to be revived more quickly in Europe, we would be able to overcome it without any difficulty. Estimates, including at the Barcelona Summit at the end of the previous week, are at the summit of the European Union in order to revive the European economy this year, to show signs of it already and to expect generally positive developments in the second half of the year, which should also be reflected appropriately in Slovenia. We must not forget that, in particular, Germany, as the largest market for Slovenian products as well, and as the economically most powerful European country, is at all under the shock of the recession, that there is virtually zero growth rate in Germany, that there has been a huge increase in the unemployed. And given this fact, the movements of our exports and the results of our companies are relatively very favourable; they could be worse under such acute external conditions. However, of course, the situation is never good enough, and in this case, as Prime Minister, I must express my own opinion or some concern that these movements, as we have them, require a certain macroeconomic framework, in particular that there should be no further increase in the burden of the economy; this is crucial. The European countries are discussing, including in Barcelona, a series of measures to increase the competitiveness of their economy and Slovenia will necessarily have to be involved in at least maintaining comparative competitiveness or better, of course, to increase it, which is also our intention, in terms of European and global averages. In such a situation, further wage increases in the public sector would have a negative impact on economic movements. We all know that wages in the public sector have been moving faster in recent years than they have been in the economy or on average throughout Slovenia. That is why current strike movements and forecasts are worrying, especially since they could also mean a chain reaction from other unions, that is, those that are not yet forecasting them, and could be undermined by the relationship and instead of increasing competitiveness, reducing the burden of the economy could go into different movements at the most inappropriate time. I think it is very important now that we give some additional impetus to the economy and certainly not additional burdens. The government will, of course, try to best face these issues and also pay movements and try to keep them within manageable frameworks. In doing so, of course, accounts and hopes for some general maturity of citizens, especially those in public administration, who, of course, must be aware that there are real limits to their wishes and expectations. In order to respond to the multi-annual demand of trade unions and the public for harmonised wage ratios across the public sector, the government has drawn up a law on wage relations. This law is submitted for second reading. It is true that not as coordinated as we wanted it to be, it is true that, for the time being, the cooperation of trade unions has not been what we want it to be and as we expected it to be. This shows, of course, the fact that this issue is difficult, that even in the previous period, when there were a lot of criticisms about the previous system and criticism of the fact that there was no single law laid down, we were sometimes skeptical, because we expected that even at the time of the transition to some law that would regulate all mutual wage relations, that this transition would probably be quite difficult, quite demanding, that there was no guarantee that this would happen very smoothly. We are now in the middle of this process, it is demanding, it is also to some extent conflict. I hope so, so we have a purpose, the government has a purpose, and I, as Prime Minister, certainly want to take it out in the best possible way, but of course this will also go with the support of one side of the national assembly, the general public and, of course, the trade unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Comrade John Janša, would you like to ask a further question? You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u37	I thank the Prime Minister for this, or rather a general response. If I understand correctly, the government considers that the situation is not such that specific measures should be taken to curb inflation. I hope that this forecast will come true for the benefit of all of us, but I am afraid that we will have to find that we cannot remain on the same macroeconomic indicators or forecasts as recorded in the budget memorandum. I would also add that it is rather unrealistic to appeal to trade unions, to act rationally and to take into account a broader interest because they are employee protection organisations and it is normal to fight for higher wages in their sectors. In particular, the government does not have the moral authority to call on trade unions to take this view, because it does not act rationally itself and because it has recently lost much of this moral authority, which has now been very necessary, when it comes to investment in business premises, driving park, etc. Such government negotiators, when they sit against unionists, do not have these authority, and I fear that these sentences, which are now on the table, will lead to large-scale results or exacerbations and conflicts that will be paid by consumers or users of different services, although there is nothing to blame. Especially since the government has at times given in to certain demands for peace in the house. However, these accounts are also paid later. It's true. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u38	Question? Complementary question?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u39	Actually, I don't have a question. I expected the Prime Minister to figure out the measures to combat inflation and say that the situation is not worrying. But I'll repeat the question at the June session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Would you like to respond, Prime Minister? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u41	What measures are possible? If this is an internal reason for raising inflation, these measures, where the government can influence, are in fact only an impact on controlled prices and, of course, on taxes. There was a certain increase here, which was based on the laws and other measures of the government when it came to harmonising those controlled prices. And that's in line with the assumption. And it also caused this initial expected higher inflation. If this is about external, external causes, then these causes are, of course, beyond our range and here it can go, as I said, especially for oil prices and for - for example. dollar value - anything that has happened in the past. This could lead to higher inflation than before and the government cannot have a significant impact. It can have a significant impact on certain measures, especially tax policies, but it is probably difficult for a short period of time, while the Bank of Slovenia can influence monetary policy, but this can be counterproductive due to economic activity. Mainly - I wanted to say this - actually, the government does not see and see the need for some available measures. However, if the movements become more acute, of course we will have to re-examine the situation, but we do not expect that. There's only so much about unions. It is true that trade unions generally fight for the best possible outcome. However, there must be control and some sustainability and some maturity everywhere. Exploiting some power, some monopoly they have - say - doctors, or schoolchildren, or someone else, in order to complete their goals, this causes in the country situations that are not productive, which are not healthy, which are not desirable. And somewhere, however, there must be some common sense and moderation, although there can be no partnership between partners, there can be neither any coordinated development nor any normal coexistence. So that's the kind of maturity we're counting on. And we hope, of course, that the decisions of the unions will be within these frameworks and that we can count on such a decision. In fact, even winning for unions, let's say that the fact that they manage to force higher wages doesn't mean winning, actually winning, not for them, not for anyone in this country, because in the next step it will cause worse economic movements, more unemployed, worse results. And we're all gonna lose. I think it's just the language we can talk about. As for the credibility of the government. The government's actions are being administered all the time, I think thoughtfully, according to its capabilities. It has its mandate to do so, and it is, of course, the government that the state currently has. And in recent times, there have been many attempts to reduce the credibility of this government in the public eye. But we all lose at the end of such events. If, of course, the government cannot resolve such issues at the end, of course, we will all lose. And every single decision that the government has made has also defended it, it has also justified it - it may have been sometimes more justified, sometimes somewhat less, but I think that the fundamental credibility of the government has and that fundamental confidence that it can also play its role, now also in these processes that are now ahead of us. Of course, if at any time I had judged differently, I would have drawn the appropriate sequences myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. The second question will be asked by your colleague Bogomir the grandson. You have the floor, Comrade Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The summit of NATO in Prague is rapidly approaching. In the near past, both you and the Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs have expressed the expectation that Slovenia will be invited to NATO at this meeting. At a public debate in this National Assembly on the integration of Slovenia into NATO and other similar round tables and similar debates on this subject, opinions on the call for a referendum to decide on this issue were very different and shared. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are convinced that this is a very important, responsible and strategic long-term decision, which is also linked to the substantive, political and financial consequences and, of course, to further decisions that are more lasting than one mandate or the mandate of any other state function. We are therefore of the opinion that such a decision should be taken at the referendum and that it should enable citizens to make direct decisions. The referendum decision would also give Slovenia greater legitimacy to the decision, such - or even longer - would commit all political options to respect such a decision and thus achieve a higher degree of democracy. So I would like to ask you, Mr. Prime Minister: Will the government allow a referendum on Slovenia's integration into the relationship? What form of referendum do you think is most appropriate? And, of course: When would you think the most appropriate time for a referendum on the integration of Slovenia into NATO? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you. Dear Member, the referendum to join the Union is then quite divided. They are also divided about when such a referendum is to be held. The government is one of the possible candidates for the referendum, there are other possible candidates, and the government has not yet decided to propose a referendum or to propose it. This is mainly a fundamental question - we all expect, of course, that there will be a referendum in the end, but it is a fundamental question: whether to make it before the invitation, if I say so, or after the invitation to NATO. If we made it before the invitation, and we count - although of course it is not yet reliable that it may come an invitation at the November summit of NATO in Prague - so if we made a referendum before and would, for example, decide to enter NATO, of course, we still have a possible situation that might not even come to the invitation and then such a referendum would probably be premature. And even in the case of a positive referendum, perhaps the general mood of the Slovenians to join the association would then change, probably worsen, in some way this would be an unpleasant rejection. That is why, because it is not yet a final formal decision, but in informal thoughts and discussions in the government, we tended to be more likely to see a referendum after the invitation to join NATO. And when the situation is clear, let us decide whether to do so or not. Whether there will be an invitation or not, at the November session, I said, this is still an open question. The enlargement of NATO at this time is not as much an issue of NATO's relationship as it used to be, in particular, it seems, of course, not in the United States of America. Thinking and verification are ongoing, but there are no fundamental political decisions yet. The government has already said the rightness to this issue. I think the reasons for joining NATO are that they dominate and even at a possible referendum, the government will represent such a position, as things are now. Finally, you asked when Slovenia would be included in NATO - at this point, of course, it is uncertain. If the invitation comes at the end of this year, it will probably be relatively fast. However, there will certainly be enough time to carry out all the necessary decision-making procedures in Slovenia for entry, i.e. to confirm the entry itself, and somehow there is no fear that we could not be in peace and make a thorough decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your answer. Would you like to ask a supplementary question, colleague of the grandson? [[Yes, you do.]] Please have two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you for your answer, Mr. President. My question, given that I already said in the introduction, is that, according to expectations - or those that have been given - I was somehow more asking in the direction that we are, let's say we will get this invitation in November in Prague. I'm interested in your personal opinion whether you personally then, in the event of an invitation to hold a referendum on this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u48	This question was asked, however, if you complement it with a personal position question, Drnovšek, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u49	Well, I think that, given the debate in Slovenia so far, there are also different opinions that exist that a referendum is likely to have to be held in Slovenia and so do I. Although it is not mandatory, the National Assembly may, of course, decide even without a referendum, but it is true that this is a one-off decision, a big decision, could say a historic decision, and it is probably right to hold a referendum on such a decision. It is true, however, that only the question of the referendum also escapes the decision-makers regarding NATO, given sometimes the problem of not too convincing public opinion or support of NATO for this in Slovenia. Feared, therefore, that a referendum would be held and that it would not succeed; therefore, that it would not confirm entry into NATO may also, on the other hand - and I agree with that - on the other hand, therefore, that any further consideration may be made about whether or not an invitation is sent. That's how things are connected. What we can do in this situation is to hold as intensive a debate as possible in the coming months on these issues, to explain as much as possible the reasons why it is reasonable to enter into NATO, so that in the end there is not too much doubt, whether we really want to join NATO or not, but also our citizens, that things are sufficiently clear and sufficiently explained. I think that this debate and decision will also not be difficult if we remember some of the facts of the last decade, because I have to remove from many things mainly the fact that, after all, it was only the relationship that had the most impact that had a positive impact on Slovenia's security, on Slovenia's stability. Without the intervention and presence of NATO, today, in south-east Europe, the security situation of Slovenia would be much worse than it is. Therefore, I am sure that the reasons for joining NATO will prevail, after all, we have already received - as a new, young country - the support and, in some way, the security that this relationship, the defence union, has provided and guaranteed us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Thirdly, the last question from the opposition parliamentary groups will be raised by a colleague of Dr. Bayuk. You have the floor, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister! In recent months, there has been no officer or media to report on so-called managers' purchases in Slovenia. With regard to the specific BTC case here, we have noted in the National Assembly the negative long-term consequences of the unlimited capital concentration process. Neither did the President of the State agree with the BTC case. Concerns about the concentration of capital were also expressed by your party's officials, Mr Gregor Golobič. Three months ago, at the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, I asked the Minister of Finance in this regard and asked the Government to verify how the Securities Market Agency had done its supervisory function in this case. Let me point out that the Agency is an institution of executive power and its officials are appointed by the Government. I did not get an answer to the question. That is why I ask you today, Mr President: Has the government, at this time, addressed the actual implementation of the amendment to the company law adopted at the beginning of your mandate and other laws, such as the takeover law, the securities market law allowing companies or managers to take over in a way that democratic countries in which the socio-market economy do not know? In today's financial journal, a well-known retired professor and economist Dr. Rino Simoneti, who, as far as it is known, does not usually advertise as a representative of the current opposition, wrote among other things: "The ingenuity of financial fraud is inexhaustible. Capitalism is a global phenomenon, interests are intertwined. We will never be caught up in abuse; there will always be new financial ingenuity and complex financial instruments [[as noted by Nobel Prize winner Stiglitz]] . Regulate - this is true prevention - greed is the most sophisticated task of the modern state. It is not useful to prescribe or prohibit everything. But when the spirit of the law is played, it would be enough to establish a current and effective previous situation." End of quote. I strongly agree with this opinion. We propose that the government bring the amendment of the Law on Economic Communities back to the previous situation in the area: firstly, the arrangements for the division of powers between the administration, the supervisory council and the general meeting of shareholders; secondly, in the area of profit-sharing; and thirdly, to eliminate all the anomalies that allow the purchase of own shares in order to reduce the permanent capital of a shareholder company or to provide some so-called greedy management buy-out. I would also like to ask you, Mr President: Are you waiting for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u52	Time's up. A colleague, Dr. Bayuk, a colleague of Dr. Bayuk [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u53	Government proposal. [[...]] And if so: Are you prepared to support such a proposal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u54	I must remind you that you have severely exceeded the agreed time of three minutes. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you. Dear Member, this is certainly a current issue. And in recent times, we have encountered many cases where the question arises as to how the last phase of transition or perhaps privatisation will be carried out. I myself note that in the last period, there have been many times that leading structures in our companies are channelling perhaps more energy into property relations and the creation of some new ownership relationships and in their favour, rather than in the development of enterprises, into new investments and, in other words, the normal activity of the company. Of course, this is not true of all, it is not to be generalized. We also have many totally different situations, completely normal relationships. That is why I have already initiated, proposed or initiated the ministers of the government, especially the Minister of Economy and the Finance Minister, to examine the current regulation once again and to assess whether it is sufficient or correct. Even in individual cases, even in the enforcement of the takeover law and others, there have been situations that clearly required analysis, which is also normal, in this way the system develops; much better based on experience than when in fact some marriage models are transferred from other systems, we understand them much better after all, and we also develop them on the basis of our own experience. And I think this is actually the stage where we have to do this. So, in any case, your initiative is welcome, and those proposals that you mentioned more will also welcome me or the government to discuss these issues. I think it is our common interest to measure the right solutions, and in the best possible way also to round up this stage of development. However, as you yourself have already said, when you quoted Nobel laureate Stiglitz, of course the search for such and different innovative routes is typical of all market economies. After all, this is confirmed by models, including in the United States of America, if I mention Enron with my great innovation, which has led to a major break and so on. In short, it is also a constant search for the right regulations. Even in the world today, no one can be sure and say that it has established absolute law, nor can the United States. We have recently heard European Commissioner Patson criticising US regulation in this area. In short, things are not simple, they are being upgraded and they are changing. Therefore, in any way, on behalf of the Government, for the first time, I accept this challenge and also this offer to address these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u56	Complementary question, Dr. Bayuk? Two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your answer. I note, of course, with satisfaction that you agree with our assessment that while this is a new development of our legislative system, it actually allows things to go wrong and that the government is also willing to correct these things in such a way as to prevent such changes from taking place that allow for so much capital concentration, which, according to our assessment, have a severe negative long-term impact on our society. We will also be happy to participate in such a project, and I welcome your willingness to do so in the future. Otherwise, we hope that this will be as soon as possible, but this is not the best way forward for such an approach, as I mentioned at the outset, that the government has not yet answered the question that we have asked three months ago. I thank you for your reply, and I expect that we will also find the right answers to our problems in this area as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u58	Would you like to respond further to that comment, Mr. Prime Minister? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the part of the answers that the Prime Minister is obliged to give to representatives of the opposition's groups. Members and Members of Parliament will now raise questions to ministers and ministers in the order in which applications are to be made. The first question will be raised by colleague Barovic. You have the floor, Comrade Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the House of Respect. Dear colleagues, colleagues in the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, ladies ministers, ladies secretary of state, ladies secretaries of state. Slovenia's involvement in European integration is, as far as I am witnessing the session and work of this Parliament, the primary task of the Republic of Slovenia, which is why my question related to this is to the government or to the foreign ministry, or to the Ministry of European Affairs. The Dutch member of the European Parliament, Louisevis van der Lanan, accused the Republic of Slovenia less than a month ago of being homophobic, of not respecting human rights and of not being a suitable candidate for admission to the European Union. At the same time, it defiled Slovenia because of the referendum on fertilization of single women, although the referendum was a legal and legitimate internal political decision of the State of the Republic of Slovenia and the outcome of the will of the Slovenian people. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment and claim, its intervention was an intervention in the internal policy of the Republic of Slovenia. The European Parliament, Mr van der Laanova, has forwarded its assessment to the world public on converted, invented and folded data, although it has been raised by a member of the national parliament for doubting the correctness of an act. Her accusation and evaluation were transmitted all over the world. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, Ambassador Van der Laanov humiliated the Republic of Slovenia before the world. Her words were proof of the servants' foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia and how discriminatory the world behaves towards our country of the Republic of Slovenia. As evidence, I am giving you, or to mention, that no one in the European Parliament has questioned the respect for the human rights of the Irish State, a member of the European Union that wanted to prohibit abortion by referendum. My question is: Is the government, or is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or has the Ministry of European Affairs officially protested against an official political statement by a member of the European Parliament on incorrect data? And: Has it officially protested its involvement in the internal political situation of the State of the Republic of Slovenia? If you have not, then please tell the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia why you have not formally protested and why you have not denied the European Parliamentary's fabricated statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your question, colleague Barovich. The question was addressed to the Government or the competent ministry. He wants the Secretary of State in the Foreign Ministry? Please, Mr. Zbogar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I would only answer that the comment made by the Dutch Member of the European Parliament, which concerns your question, is a question of one of the Members of the European Parliament, that is its position, that is not the position of the European Parliament or of any of the European Parliament's bodies. This issue is not a debate in the European Parliament, so that Slovenia in the European Parliament is not currently the subject of any hearing or charges as you state them. This is, however, an entirely legitimate opinion by one of the MEPs. Thus, the government or the foreign ministry currently feels obliged to react or protest the statements made by one of the Members of the European Parliament. That's what I think it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State? Do you want to ask an additional question? Two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm afraid they don't keep your word. A few days ago, I was at the official visit of the Slovenian delegation to Britain, where I was personally, as a member of the delegation and also with other colleagues from the British Member, warned of the criticism of Slovenia regarding the lack of respect for human rights. If the representative of House of Commons, the British Parliament, asks us about our credibility in the field of human rights, then this is a question for me and my colleagues and for this National Assembly concerning the European Union and Slovenia. Otherwise, another question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u64	You can't ask another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u65	Or else I'll finish. Is it not shameful to sacrifice the Slovenian Agricultural Union because of our accession to the European Union? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u66	That's not the same question!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u67	Mr. President! That's in connection with my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u68	It's not!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u69	That's your claim. I'll set it up differently. I know how to act like one. It is a shame that we are letting go in those areas when entering the European Union, where it is the life or non-life of some layer of Slovenian people. On the other hand, we are losing our reputation and meaning because of the fabricated and harmful official political statements made by some people in the European Parliament. And one more thing. Marginally or not, let's just leave it alone, we won't get involved. Metaphorically, gentlemen, I'll tell you again. Or we will once, or we will once again, even if - you can laugh as much as you want - the innkeeper's Slovenian customs, roll up our sleeves and show our fists to those people who are hurting our country, we can show a man that the Slovenians do not just give ourselves and the lewd and unjustly humiliate and exploit and walk through the water thirsty at all costs. Think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I owe you one, too. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There's no discussion between colleagues. My friend Jakich. My friend Barovich. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I don't allow discussion unless you have the right to speak. There are limits on which I must insist as President and give them all the same. And I ask you to respect them. Please, there's no reason to raise your voice, no reason to be impatient. The question was asked. Does the government representative wish to comment further on what was said in the supplementary question by colleague Barovic? No, no, no. My colleague Kontic will ask the government the following question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. I am referring to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia because the content of this initiative relates to several sources. It has been seven years since the introduction of local self-government and at the same time the reforms of the state administration. New congregations have been formed, and new administrative units have been formed. There are some cases in Slovenia where we have territorial incompatibilities between municipalities and these newly created administrative units. Let me just focus on the environment I come from. In our particular case, it is unacceptable that the locals and the locals of Viennese, who are citizens of the municipality of Velenje, regulate administrative matters in the administrative unit of Žalec and not in the administrative unit of Velenje. In Velenje we actually accept spatial acts in the city council and in Žalec we issue building permits on the basis of these spatial acts. It is also a land book in Žalec. This was understandable as long as the local community of Vinska Gora belonged to the congregation of Žalec. During the previous term of office, the competent government representatives answered my questions, saying that it was reasonable to wait for the organisation and implementation of the project of administrative thefts. This mandate has already raised this same question by the DeSUS Group of Members and, as I know, the answer was that it would be good to wait now for the introduction of the provinces. And people are reluctant to follow our work. This time, I am not asking the question, but I am taking the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not only to study, but also this actual nonsense to eliminate, and this nonsense has been going on for seven years, as I said at the beginning. At one of the following meetings, we will ask you how far you are with activity and what are the results of these activities. As I said in the introduction, this is not a lonely case, these cases are quite something in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you. If I understand correctly, colleague Kontic, you have given an initiative, you have not asked a question, so the government is not obliged to give an answer, at least not today. However, I ask that he responds in writing to the initiative. The next question will be asked by colleague Roman Jakič. You have the floor, Comrade Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Let me first apologize to myself and, of course, procedurally say that the President would ask you, secondly, to stop the debater, speaking metaphorically, in view of the constitution which says that the anti-constitutional appeal to intolerance is to stop the debater, who also speaks metaphorically about the need to roll up his sleeves and, of course, to react to the man. This is a very impatient statement, which, of course, has been handed down in this assembly. If I go to my question, I would, of course, address it to the Ministry of Justice. I'm sorry the minister isn't here. Last May, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal for a law amending the Law on Judicial Service, by which it sought to facilitate the implementation of the programmes for the correction of arrears by temporary allocations to judges for the performance of judicial service in another court. The amendment made it possible for the award to be paid to the award-winning judge involved in the compensation programmes within the limits of the appropriations allocated to the court. This should make it possible to exercise judicial authority more effectively or to provide judicial protection through the implementation of the lag-out programme, with increased efficiency in a more rational manner, without additional seats of judges. It is, of course, to raise the Hercules programme, which we have earmarked in the previous budget for 2001 a little less than 50 million tolars. I supported the bill, as you know, at the time, but I expressed some concerns about the success of this programme in the debate. I argued that by adopting the law, we are not solving the issue of the abolition of judicial backlogs, but merely the material position of judges. In addition, I felt that the flat-rate award of judges, because they were willing to participate in the programme, would not produce the desired results, as the only appropriate stimulus would be to reward judges according to the number of cases resolved through the standardised scope, such as in other countries of the European Union. I therefore ask, of course, to confirm or reject my justified or unjustifiable concerns, the Ministry: To what extent have the judges in the Hercules programme helped to reduce judicial backlogs? How many cases have they solved? Have they exceeded the number of cases handled by the judge on average? And: Did the courts where they were assigned by means of them reduce the backlogs or the courts from which these judges were sent not increase the backlogs? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u74	Before I give my word to Secretary of State Erjavc, let me respond to your warning only by suggesting that we do not talk about tolerance in this high house, but apply it; this is so for those who are performing and are obliged to avoid any statements that are understood among other colleagues as an expression of intolerance, as well as for those who disagree with them in the podium and must remain silent because the President or the President does not give them the floor to stumble in such a statement. I therefore suggest that everyone adheres to his or her rights and does not interfere with the rights of others. My colleague Erjavec or Secretary of State Erjavec now has the floor to answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u75	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Hercules project is just one of the projects that is supposed to help resolve the situation in the judiciary. As you know, resolving judicial backlogs is a complex issue and only with a combination of different measures is it possible to expect appropriate results. Hercules is one of these projects. I must say that we do not yet have the data on the effects of this programme, but we are in the process of collecting this data. So as soon as we receive this information, we will also provide this information in writing to the Member. However, we already have data for 2001, which shows us that the trend in the reduction of pending cases continues, which, according to our assessment, is positive for more important matters, that is, for those cases where the judges personally participate, personally judge matters, the number of pending cases has decreased by about 8%. It is said that since 2000, there have been 172,000 pending cases, and now there are 162,000. I must say that pending cases do not constitute a judicial backlog, but the judicial backlog is specifically defined, and that we have also calculated this year what the rate of this judicial backlog is and we have come to the conclusion that approximately 40% is a judicial backlog. This means about 66,000 cases, which are a real backlog of the court, because we cannot count all outstanding cases as a backlog. However, as I have already said, following the examination of the Judicial Service Act, it has also been proposed by the National Assembly to set up a joint expert committee, both by the Government and the Supreme Court. And I must say that, just last week, together with the representatives of the Supreme Court, we have dealt with the material prepared in the draft, and I expect that within one month this material will be prepared to the end, which means that the reasons for these judicial backlogs and the measures proposed by the Government, together with the Supreme Court, will be presented in this paper. However, this is a problem that other countries in Europe face, so it is not a specific issue in Slovenia. As I have already said, we are pleased that the trend to reduce outstanding issues continues.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u76	Do you want to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you, although I don't want to, President, nothing, but Jaša Zląbec taught me when I was a young politician, that someone is silent, and I don't intend to remain silent when there's an outpouring of intolerance in this assembly. To the Secretary of State, Mr Erjavac, of course, I thank you for a very global or very loose response. I didn't ask about the entire judiciary, I know about the data, I also know about the press conference that your minister had, where he said about the reduction of 172 cases per thousand and one hundred and some 60, which you have also found - we are not talking about backlogs. I ask specifically and ask, of course, exactly those people who have received an allowance for being transferred to another court. From this country they received an additional payment for their work: How many backlogs have they solved or have the courts from which they went, or have there been an increase in backlogs in those courts? According to my information I have, of course, this project Hercules was not as successful as it was drawn at the end of May of last year when it was said that there were precise percentages, how much backlog will be saved by the end of 2001 - behind. Of course, mixing some global view of the issue of the judiciary and increasing or reducing the number of judges does not answer the specific question I am asking you. I will therefore be very happy, very happy, if you will give me a concrete answer to the question which I will also bring to you in writing. However, specific questions concern, of course, those judges involved in the Hercules programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u78	Mr Erjavec, would you like to answer the supplementary question? [[You don't want to.]] Okay, then, before I give my word to my colleague Pozsonchev, I will conclude our own discussion, colleague Jakič, to propose that we build on the progress we have made in this political culture in the house and on this good tradition. My colleague Pozsonec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All present and welcome. Let me start my winter theme - the economic situation along the Slovenian-Hungarian border. I know this is a boring topic for some, but it is a cruel reality on that part of Slovenia. I therefore call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to establish a project inter-resort group of ministries responsible for solving the following problems: the situation of textile workers, because we are losing hundreds of jobs, we are looking for rights for workers and workers in Indip and Mura, Weaving in Prosenjakovci, Construction and Gidos in Lendava; I am interested in the answer to the solution to the situation of Nafte Lendava, because no one believes in promises other than me. The answer for 2,300 unemployed, which is exactly 20% of the population; the answer for the brain and youth escape, which means that not only our present but also our future is at stake. We want to answer the question of transport links, which is a condition for faster economic development. We want a clean environment, because some diseases have reached unheard of proportions in our country, and those responsible offer us another waste incineration plant. We want an answer and a right for farmers and agriculture; we want an answer on more coherent regional development. At the parliamentary initiative, I do not expect demagogic answers to the restructuring, but concrete proposals, assistance and actions. So, does the government think that our situation is really urgent? Is she going to do anything? Is 20% unemployment a valid argument for actions? For we Prekmurians have only one life, and we desire and deserve to live it with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your question, colleague Pozsonec. Someone from the government wants to answer a question that has been formulated as an initiative, a colleague of Possončeva. Does he? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then you will receive the answer in writing. The next question will be raised by Comrade Pohorec to the representatives of the government. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the State, distinguished secretaries and secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. These days I have had a lot of contact with citizens in my area, at meetings, assemblies and so on and many have asked me to ask in Ljubljana for some things that seem inappropriate and bad to them especially to farmers in our rural area. The proverb says, in an accident, you meet friends - we know this - or skins who use a certain accident for their own account. I'll illustrate this with the following example. It's an accident for a farmer to get injured in a barn, break his leg and have to be put in a forced slaughter. However, two days after the accident, the inspector ordered, without justification and without taking any comments, that a slaughtered animal go to the slaughterhouse waste. So, the farmer didn't get an animal or a tolar for this, and an account for 84.673 tolars, and another 16 thousand for transport, together over 100,000 tolars. So the farmer must sell another beautiful cow to pay the cost of the compulsory slaughter. I'm guessing that's pretty clear on the way things are going with these things. In neighbouring Austria, a killing like this would cost 10,000 tolars. Reliable information. The case isn't lonely. There's more. The Ministry already has data and also complaints from these parties. I will not ask for an answer here, I would like to give the Ministry an initiative to examine such cases thoroughly and also to take action. And as a question under point 2, only this: When will farms receive subsidies for 2001? Now they need money when it's spring, planting, fertilizing and working in the fields so they can pick up crops in the fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u82	Please, Mr Simončič, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. I would like to answer a question about the slaughter of a cow that did not meet the conditions, it is said that the meat was unfit for consumption, and therefore the Inspector's decision was to impose such a method of slaughter. Under a government regulation on the level of confiscation, therefore, a price is fixed for such a way of removing animals. The price itself is the thing of the slaughterhouse, which we cannot influence, says, is the decision of the slaughterhouse itself. As I know, this complaint is already in the ministry's solution and we will also respond to this complaint, it is said, the Ministry or the VURS, that is, the veterinary administration of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to subsidies for 2001. So, subsidies will be paid by the end of this month. However, there are still processing of inspectoral applications and complaints, where the procedure is therefore more delayed and will also be in line immediately after the end of these regular subsidies, it is said that subsidies for 2001 would therefore be paid by the end of this month.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Simoncic. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Then I would like to ask my colleague Rokavec to put the issue to the government, followed by my colleague Rupar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! I refer the question to the Ministry of Culture. In fact, in May 2001, the National Assembly passed a law on media. Among other things, in the amendment to Article 82, he also stated that 3% of the RTV contribution was earmarked for the preparation of programme content for local, regional and student radio and television programmes. Indeed, the public institution of RTV complained to the Constitutional Court, including with a proposal to suspend the enforcement of the second paragraph of Article 82 of the Act. The Constitutional Court did not agree with this initiative. For this reason, I ask the Ministry of Culture: What activities have been initiated by - or government - for the implementation of the second paragraph of Article 82 of the Media Act? In fact, according to the information I have, there is still no activity on the ground in relation to the fact that these funds could be obtained from a title clearly defined by the Media Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Baskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, will probably answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u87	Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for the question. I'll be very brief. If you allow, we will send the answer in writing very quickly, because it requires very precise statements because it is a big and important matter, and I do not want to risk that you will remain dissatisfied today with the general answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u88	My friend Rokavec, do you agree with that? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u89	I agree with the proposal because I am sure that this is a complex enough question. I also expect the answer to be timely, in time, and - if possible - by e-mail.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u90	Okay, thank you very much. Comrade Rupar, do you have a question for the government? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I have a question for the Ministry of Environment and Space. Recently, we received a letter from the municipal offices and mayors informing the minister that the government or he himself would soon nationalize all the natural values owned by the municipalities. So, all the landscape parks, all the watercourses, natural and, of course, other sights. Of course, it is nationalisation and without the decision-making or codecision of the current owners, that is, the municipalities The question that concerns me, the unreasonable and rather cruel way of transferring property, is: How are the nationalisations supported by money in the state budget? I further wonder: Will the infrastructure going through these landscape parks be supported in addition to natural goods? For example, a road around Lake Bled, then roads through different landscape parks and other parks. I wonder: How will you provide money to maintain the safety of people in these parks? Like the Triglav National Park or the Dovžan Society. I would also like to know: Where will you get the money to edit watercourses and chandeliers? Of course, assuming that this is now in a very critical state and that there is no money for maintenance. I would like to know whether Mr Minister, who is signed under this notice, has also made provision for a plan and timetable for the adoption of state management plans and, ultimately, before being maintained or nationalised. The pure question to you personally, Mr Minister: Do you not feel or feel so strong, I will say that by signing you you can support municipal property without prior decision by the municipal council or in my opinion even the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much for the question, Comrade Rupar. Minister Digger, will you answer the question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Ambassador Rupar, it's probably a misunderstanding and I don't quite understand what kind of support you're talking about. There is no such thing, of course, without a special or judicial decision or law. That is why all these words of yours are completely unfounded. Under the Nature Conservation Act, the Government is obliged or the Minister of Environment and Space is obliged by law to determine areas of natural value. Some natural values are of national importance and some are of local importance. This means that the sub-legislative act, which has recently been sent to public hearings by municipalities, before that for the Primorska area, now for the region of Gorenjska, is followed by the area of Styria, Dolenjska and Prekmurje, in the coming months. In short, in all these areas, an expert proposal is re-branded in public treatment, which is intended to serve as the basis for defining certain areas as areas of natural value. No more than that. This, of course, only means that a certain regime is established in these areas under another sub-legislative act. This means, of course, that these areas in the planning acts are somehow fixed as areas in which, for example, they are not allowed to interfere with the construction of some residential areas or similar. Nothing more than that. What is an area of natural values, the honourable Member can read in the Law on Nature Conservation. However, the definition of an area as a natural value does not imply any kind of restraint. Let me illustrate this, for example, a comparison in the area of protection of cultural heritage. If a house is declared a cultural monument, this house can, of course, be privately owned, owned by the state, municipal property. It is defined by its characteristics as a cultural monument. And in this case, though, the field of nature is nothing more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask an additional question? You have the floor, Comrade Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u95	Only so much that either, Mr. Secretary, you don't know what you're signing, or you're doing it by passing through. In fact, there are documents and there are precise plans by which you define, for example, for Gorenjska almost two thirds of the territory that you will maintain and in which in the letters of the municipality and responsible at the municipal offices you only inform what you will do. Of course, you note that comments can be sent to your address. However, whether you consider them or not, there is, of course, another question. So, Mr. Secretary, a little serious.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u96	Would you like to answer this supplementary question, Minister Kopač? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u97	I don't want to because I've explained everything before. If the Member of Parliament doesn't understand, I can't help it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u98	I ask for a respectful tone from all sides, both sent and sent by ministers. I give my word to my colleague Bevk. He'll have the word of a fellow Terchon behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! I have a question for the Ministry of the Economy. In the early 1990s, the process of establishing supporting institutions to promote the development of a small economy began in Slovenia. Due to the integrity of the development problem, business centres have also taken over the tasks of development agencies. In Slovenia today there are more local and 12 regional development agencies. The mission of all development agencies is the same. However, because of the different legal forms of organisation, such as limited liability companies, institutions and public institutions, the State does not treat them in an equal way in the allocation of funds under individual calls. Last year's call for the Ministry of Economy to co-finance projects and programmes in the field of tourism identified the roles of development agencies as limited liability companies excluded from consideration, despite the fact that all of these development agencies have, as a rule, a provision in the founding act defining the company's non-profit. The fact is that the agencies mentioned in the calls for EU funds, regardless of the form of organisation, would succeed. I ask the Ministry of the Economy when and how the conditions for obtaining development incentives will be levelled for all development agencies that carry out their mission correctly. Question: Regional development agencies are empowered by local communities to draw up regional development programmes in the statistical region. No, the area of the mountain statistical region is a project in the final phase. All 12 municipalities have also joined forces because of the possibility of using the necessary financial resources for regional development. The Ministry of Economy, in announcing the call for the co-financing of the implementation works on regional development programmes for 2002 and 2003, provided that only the regions included in the so-called A-and-B list may be tendered for two years. However, the GOI, which is listed in list C, cannot benefit from these funds. This raises questions about the implementation of regional development programmes and the relevance of more than one year's efforts by a number of development actors in the region. I therefore ask the competent ministry, on the basis of which the substantive criteria set out priorities for the allocation of development incentives, which, with the support of only individual parts of Slovenia, supports in the long term, let's say to this development balance. I thank you in advance for the answers to both questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u100	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the question, Member. Well, as far as the priority sheets are concerned, if I start from behind, then this is, of course, set out in the law on coherent regional development and, of course, these in A-and B-, the list have a priority in relation to the degree of lagging behind compared to others. Of course, it is necessary to know that in certain projects we must decide on us the amount of money at our disposal. Priorities shall also be established to avoid fragmentation of these funds. However, I will also refer your question to the Regional Development Agency to examine the correctness of these priorities and the Agency will also respond to you in writing. The second question is regarding these local business centres. Local business centres are a network that is essentially financed by municipalities. This is not a network that would be under the auspices of, for example, the budget if I put it simply. Secondly, as far as these applications are concerned, and the determination is concerned. In elimination, it is likely that it is either profitable or non-profit. Now, whether the call for proposals itself showed that these designated agencies that you spoke about were not non-profit, it is of course necessary to look at how this call was implemented and how certain information was taken into account.So that I would also give you additional written information on this issue, because I have to have the relevant information.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, Dr. Petrinov. Complementary question, colleague Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. It was precisely because the Regional Development Agency would reply to these two questions in writing, that I raised this oral question because I think there is a great deal of dissatisfaction or, I would say, the uneven organisation of these development agencies and these different status forms. In a sense, therefore, these two issues are also an initiative for the government to change the laws or regulations governing these two areas. I therefore look forward with great interest to what the Agency will respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Would you like to further answer this supplementary question, Dr. Petrinov? [[No, no, ……]] Before I call on my colleague Terchoon to tell you that my colleague Vukko has made a friendly announcement - I think the sixth is on the agenda for colleagues of Terchono - to propose, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 29, that the response of the government - I think it will be a question for the Ministry of the Interior - to be discussed in the National Assembly, it is said that the parliamentary groups can be contacted. I think this is a kind warning, and I suggest to the parliamentary groups that they pay attention to this. First of all, I give my word to my colleague, Terchoon, and after him will be my colleague, Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. I am referring my question to the Minister for Education and Sport, and it is linked to the already well-established project of establishing the University of the Sea. After not having decided to join the future third, the University of the Sea, and after not having approved by the Senate of the Faculty of the Sea in Piran with the majority required, the Council for Higher Education did not turn on the green light last week for the decision establishing the Third Slovenian University in Primorska, but it did so for its working bodies to be dealt with. It is clear, therefore, that the project of the establishment of the Third Slovenian University in Primorska is moving towards an undetermined future. This has also been confirmed by you after the Council meeting, Madam Minister, when you said that it is no longer realistic to expect that a decree in Parliament would be adopted by the end of this year. Let me point out that the project of the Third Slovenian University in Primorsk has always been very broad of support and that I think it also had very broad political support and political consensus. On the basis of this, Madam Minister, and of course in the light of Slovenia's integration into the European Union, I believe that the project of establishing a third university in Primorska is very important, both for Primorska and Slovenia, and I ask you on this basis: What will the Ministry, or what activities, the Ministry of Education or Government as a whole now lead to the realization of this project as soon as possible? When, according to your assessment, we can expect a decree establishing a third university in Primorska in the National Assembly and whether the Ministry will continue to insist on the current organisational concept of the third Slovenian University, i.e. it is a university with several campuses or two equivalent higher education centres in Nova Gorica and Koper.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dr. Lucia Chok, Minister for Education, Science and Sports, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u107	I thank Mr Tarchoon for this question. I think it is right that you firsthand learn here in the National Assembly what has really happened or how it is approaching the realization of this project, which is truly, as we know, of strategic importance. It took us a long time to understand that this is also a national interest, not only of Primorske, but of the countries of Slovenia, and we have animated both the policy and the professional public to support this project. So the most important thing was done until the fall of last year. You have accepted this in the National Higher Education Programme and we have also done this task up to this point, which I would like to present to you today. In fact, the expert government group has somehow concluded its work. It prepared an elaboratory in which, of course, the following happened: until, in fact, one week before the introduction of an elaboratory into the world of higher education, at least the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport was included. We have learned from the polytechnics that the differences between the steps we have taken are either a change in the legislation for higher education or the establishment of the university before, so the differences between these views have prepared a policy to decide not to join this university under this legislation. This means, according to legislation that is aligned, including the Bologna Process of the Integrated University, where the University is a single legal person. When we change legislation, we will be able to learn more about this, but I doubt that we will be able to speak in the new legislation in this direction about the disintegrated university. So it went between what was wanted and what was possible, and that's why, of course, we prepared an elaborate without these two institutions. In this new concept they have joined: the Faculty of Humanities Studies in Cyprus, the Faculty of Management, which is in the process of establishing in the working bodies of the Higher Education Council, the Faculty of Education in Cyprus, which is in the bodies of the Higher Education Council, the Higher School of Health, which was established by this meeting, so it has already been agreed to establish a tourism that is already a valid school with a sufficiently high reputation, and the Scientific Research Centre of Koper and the Maritime Institute for Science and Technology as a research unit of these universities. So today we have an elaboratory in which there are about a hundred teachers, higher education teachers, 43 researchers and about 3,100 students who are native to these houses. About the lab, the world for higher education said the following. He put it in expert review because he objected to certain details. For example. Wants to see a list of all teachers who will teach, including those who pass 100 who are not fully employed in these schools, but are teaching at these universities with the consent of the home. Then this body wanted a draft statute in which it would appear that the merger is not formal, but it is real, because doubts arose precisely because these things appeared at the last moment. In this draft statute, the mission of the new university should be demonstrated by joint bodies, development programmes and these things which determine the academicity of this university. But they also wanted a list of the assets, which is that the municipal councils must shortly, this is what we have prepared for them, with an accession contract that will enter into force with the establishment of the university to say, sign what property they are handing over to this university as, I would say, some kind of traveller. We've accepted it, we think it's the right thing to do, because look, the lab has to have all the evaluation. This will be done by the expert bodies until the next meeting of the higher education world. Of course, the world for higher education has come to a standstill in the fact that the Primors have taken this project slightly less seriously than expected, and the initiative of the Council for Higher Education is once again to express to the Primors the desire to agree on a single university and to approach the implementation of this project. That means we're just going to go out with the two colleges that got out again and ask them if they've changed their minds. Unless we change our minds, I think we're going with this lab to re-examine May of the month. Both universities provided full support to both rectors and full support to the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts. So this university is going to be squandered, which is probably quite a disappointment, even for us who designed the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Complementary question, Mr. Tercheon? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, in fact, you have answered my question very extensively and comprehensively, but I must say that you have not specifically answered me some questions. Above all, as far as the new deadlines are concerned, when we can expect a decree in the National Assembly and as far as the organisational concept is concerned. So you can see for yourself that you will invite the technician and the Faculty of the Sea to participate, or you will invite her to join the University of the Sea. But if that doesn't happen, I understand your response to the assessment that you have enough material and enough, I would say, higher education institutions that could form a university in Primorska. Whether that's true or not, and especially when, I'm interested.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u111	I'm sorry, I thought you asked me that. The deadline of 1 October 2002 is, of course, unattainable. It has been found that in 2002-2003 we will not be able to register students at the University of Primorsk. That's why we're starting 2003-2004. This is said to be until spring, when the call for new programmes is usually in mid-March, we should know whether we have this university, so to speak, March 2003. The concept, the design of the network university remained, even because there are needs and programmes in Crassus that already indicate that a centre will be established in Crassus or in Notranjska, even if a mountain centre would not wish to approach the university. And the possibility that this network remains in the form of some Canadian, American and other universities, where campuses are an integral part of one university itself, is still closer to us than one single located university on the coast or in Goriška or elsewhere. Therefore, we also maintain the same concept in the decree that we will present to you in the National Assembly, let us hope, with a few delays.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The next one has the right to ask Mr Sašo Pece a question which is not between us, so I give the floor to Mr Vojk Čeligo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u113	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for the floor. Also warmly greeted are government officials! My oral question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Archival material from the Primorska area for the time after World War I and until the end of World War II is stored in the so-called administrative provinces of Gorica, Trieste, Pula and Rijeka, which are now in other countries, Italy and Croatia, because of the Italian occupation and administrative situation of these places. To illustrate, only for the area of the present municipality of Ilirska Bistrica, several hundred boxes of archive material have been stored in the State Archives in the river. It is certainly a valuable historical material that is certainly part of our archives. I ask what has been done so far to bring this material back, and what are the chances of our national archiving service getting to this material? Thank you for your answer. I'll be happy to take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr Iztok Simoniti, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dear Member, we are fully aware of this problem. The problem of archives is one of the problems that I would say are constantly on the agenda. Now I must say that this is a relatively complicated issue and some resistance on the Italian side. We've taken over, I must say, a lot of action. If you don't mind, we'd like to brief you on what we're doing, written information. Can I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Maja Zupan's turn. Here you go. I'm sorry, I changed the list, Mr. Janez Podobnik's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I myself will continue with the question of the question of the foreign policy, namely, relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia [[between us are two secretaries of state]] . The main part of the border area along the Slovenian-Croatian border is unfortunately, with the exception of rare exceptions, demographically threatened and also economically less developed. In this small border area, as defined by the law in force between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, an agreement on border traffic and cooperation is in force, which is a law that affects about 270 thousand people. In order to lay the border and improve interconnection and business on both sides of the border, in the border area, it is necessary that the law in force on this international agreement be added or strengthened in terms of facilitation, with regard to the free movement of goods for that population. I ask representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs whether the applicable law, the applicable SOBS, allows for the enforcement with the border population of such solutions to be granted certain benefits on the basis of this document. We also have a good experience. These are the benefits that are comparable to the benefits of a visual agreement in the Slovenian-Italian border area. It is also known that the border population has the possibility of obtaining a pass from 18 March. Therefore, on the basis of this document, on the basis of these laissez-passes, in the framework of the current law, of course, in the bilateral agreement of the Mixed Commission, some other credit ratings could also be found for the border population. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Simonity, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dear congregation, honourable Member of the Podobnik. SOBS has been ratified, SOBS has entered into force. A Mixed Commission has been established, which is the engine for the implementation of this Agreement. This committee has met twice. We think he's doing a good job. She's supposed to meet for the third time. Slovenia, the Slovenian side has always requested and advocated that it is interested in the full implementation of the agreement on border transport and cooperation, including in the part which is relatively problematic concerning fishing. We have received assurances from the Croatian side that the Croatian party is also interested in this. Otherwise, this is not a direct answer to the question. Only so much information, given that there are different interpretations of this in the public eye. Now the question is whether SOBS has given certain ratings or certain benefits. This border between the two countries is regulated by three instruments, as we know. One is the two-state border, the other will be the Schengen regime, which separates two geopolitical communities, if I may say so, and the purpose of SOBS is to actually facilitate, soften these sharp and demanding instruments. SoBS is just an instrument that gives many benefits to the people at the border Now, the Member has mentioned a visual agreement. There is certainly no novelty in the international context of SOBS. In fact, SOBS is only an upgrade to what a visual agreement provides and what this "disputantis" provides for, and an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Austria on border matters. In short, SOBS provides for a number of ratings or benefits in areas such as dual ownership, land processing, border crossing, hunting, fishing, sports recreation and so on. The Mixed Commission, as I said, is the body that will take care of the realization of all these benefits. Now, there's one more thing I'd like to explain, if I may. The SOBS is also an agreement that we must bring to the European Union. This means that we will have to fully explain the functioning and content of this Agreement to the European Union. That's what we're getting ready for. However, as with any international agreement, an agreement that introduces certain transparency is also a certain order and also a certain security for people at the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Alojz Sok has the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the government. I will ask the question about agriculture, not the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, but the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Mag. The digger. On 16 October 2001, we adopted a state aid law to remedy the effects of drought, cold and hailstorming. Pursuant to Article 3, then the adopted law should be issued by the Government or the Ministry of the Environment and Space to produce a report on the damage. Until now, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I have not seen any report on this damage, so I would ask the Minister what this report is, what damage has been estimated and what the consequences of these natural disasters have been in the past year. I would also like to ask him to what extent Article 14 of this Law has been implemented, which states that, by the end of 2001, applications and damage to all those agricultural operators who carry out agriculture as the only and main activity are being considered by the end of the year. However, since April is also approaching, and by the end of April it is necessary to pay all the estimated damages in accordance with this law, I would ask him whether the government will actually comply with that deadline. For we are already strong in March and I have a feeling, and also from the information provided to me by people on the ground, it turns out that by this point assistance under this law has not been a priority for those too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Kopach, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u123	The Ministry dealt with this in good time for priority beneficiaries; it sent a decision to the government in December; it also adopted a decision; and I think there were, after that, some complications with the selection of banks that were supposed to indicate it. But this is no longer within the direct competence of the Ministry of the Environment. As for the damage report you're asking me to say that this moment is in the process of further processing, I think that around seven thousand applications have come from individual potential beneficiaries because they need to be complemented. That is why it is not yet possible to submit a final report, but I think it is around - very much in mind - 25 and 30 thousand deposits are already perfect. Already these numbers probably tell you that this must be very intensively dealt with by a very small team in the ministry in this department that deals with this and all the beaches and the effects of the earthquake, etc., we have employees, I think eight people. All of you, of course, have to process tens of thousands of these applications. I think that this moment with great effort still shows us well in meeting the deadline that expires at the end of April, as you mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u125	Of course, I must ask the Minister, in addition, because this bill was proposed by his ministry, and we have heard here in Parliament that it is one of the most modern laws in Europe. During this time we also had a so-called interpretation due to non-compliance with the 2000 law. I must conclude that the Minister has not actually answered any of my questions. He replied that they were doing too little to have enough people and that they would do it. I specifically asked him: how much funding have you made under Article 14? You told me the problem was with the banks. That's not an answer. You tell me how much funding was planned and from the Ministry. The second is if the banks don't get it through their procedure. So, I am interested in the amount of these funds under Article 14 and in the damage report. That is to say, if so many and so many applications are processed, what is the damage number of these applications that have been submitted. Not those who are in the complaint and the rescue, but the report is damaging. I'll also be happy if you tell me I'll get this answer in writing. This is also how you promised to give some written answers at the time of interpolation. We didn't get those answers until now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u127	In order not to be inaccurate with the numbers here, we're really going to give it in writing. However, I can say that in December, I now very much think, for these priority beneficiaries, we have proposed a distribution of slightly less than 1 billion tolars. I'll give you the exact number in writing. And even for the already known data from the perfect applications, of course, we can give you the amount any minute, but at this point I don't know it. Get it in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! The Road Transport Act. Despite your assurances, Mr. Secretary, at various levels, on various occasions, I find somehow the information that I have in my possession that this law is not being implemented or that its implementation is extremely limited due to the fact that there are no important sub-legislative acts to this law. And that's why the hands are already expired, as far as I know about a lot of things. Here are a lot of open questions about licenses, licenses, parking lots and so on. I am also interested in the interpretation of Article 74 of the Road Transport Act, which deals with transfers from the annual plan and transfers from licences, as a regulation for the distribution of licences and permits has not yet been adopted to regulate discrepancies between the amendment of the law and the existing regulation. In order to resolve the situation, the Ministry issued a mandatory instruction for the first partial period, but not published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia or any other official publication. The text remained secret, so that none of the carriers could calculate or control the 2002 annual plan set out by the dealer. We have also, on many occasions, debated this subject, about this law, when we adopted it in the National Assembly, warned or had information that there are major abuses, including bribery affairs, etc., of course, very specific information we have not received in our hands, so we should investigate it, the criminal service should investigate it, but for once I don't know if it is, we will have to ask who. But no matter what, look. Ms. Nevenka Črešnar-Pergar, Minister of Justice, has also sent you a letter on behalf of the Government of Slovenia or the Office of the Prime Minister, in which she reminds you that this law is not actually being implemented or that you do not take into account all these promises made by you, the role of the Chamber of Commerce, etc., and that also because of the credibility of the Government, she says, in your replies or assurances that they are not in practice implemented, that you are submitting these answers to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia as soon as possible and that you are familiar with them also with the Office of the Prime Minister. In short, it is noted that there is an irregular situation in this area and I would ask you if you could explain when these things will be arranged for the benefit of all participants, especially carriers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The Minister for Transport has the floor, Mr Jakob Preseknik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members. Well, it's true we're late to make the rules. These include three, in particular three rules: a license policy, a licence policy and a parking policy. We wanted these rules, of course, to be aligned to the details or to the end, in particular with both chambers, in addition to, of course, the need to coordinate them inter-ministerially between individual ministries. The last meeting was held at one of the chambers, where we received some of the missing details or details and also agreed on extremely short deadlines in the next period, during which we will also complete these rules in order, first on licences, then on permits and also on parking and also on parking spaces, which is the last of the third, will be completed or will be issued in the foreseeable future towards the end of April or at the latest in early May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Kelemina? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thanks for the answer. Well, that's a very encouraging message. I hope a lot of people are happy. If by then - I ask further - whether this issue of non-compliance between the amendment of this Law on an existing regulation, for the distribution of licences and these licence prices will be resolved if this is also resolved by this Regulation. In fact, the compulsory instruction you issued was not published in any official publication, so the beneficiaries simply do not know and cannot find out and calculate for themselves what rights they have in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u135	Of course, these rules will solve a number of questions, but no instructions are secret and as such not issued, so I see no reason not to be available to all users. But there are instructions in both chambers, both of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Vukko will ask the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I refer the question to the Minister of the Interior concerning the stickers. With the adoption of a regulation on technical inspections of motor vehicles and trailers adopted by the Minister of the Interior and entered into force 3.12.2001, a new system for registration of motor vehicles has entered into force, which also introduces the so-called label. Most citizens and citizens have not accepted the introduction of stickers in the registration of motor vehicles with enthusiasm, we can say, quite the contrary, they resented, there has been a type of controversy in the public. Doubts about the appropriateness of the system in place do not only occur in users, but also in operators themselves, as well as in other professional institutions. I personally believe that these incoherences are entirely justified by citizens and citizens or users. Why? Firstly, in my opinion, the system is inappropriate and does not solve all situations that occur in practice in real life. The procedure introduced by the new Regulation is too complex and bureaucratic. And what's most important to me is that this system is hostile to users and it costs them extra costs and extra routes. If I can only give you two examples. Notwithstanding the fact that the law provides that no technical inspection is necessary for new passenger cars and motorcycles for a period of three years, the owner of the new vehicle must be at the seat of the authorised technical inspection operator, where the authorising officer issues the label and then affixs it to the windscreen. According to the old system, it was not necessary to do so because the party could arrange everything at the administrative unit headquarters, under the assumption, of course, that it had an appropriate insurance policy with the insurance company and paid the toll several times, the tax provided for in this title. Or another case. If an administrative person or a natural person buys a new vehicle, the person can do it, leave the car with the seller, arrange all these formalities, and then drive with the new plates very proudly to a place where people were happy and even a little unsatisfying. But today we are forcing these people into something else. Before registration it is necessary to serve 30, 40 kilometers, take a test plate and go after a sticker that is not valid for three years, only one year. All of this does not only bother users, but also bothers me as a citizen and as a user. As a member of Parliament, I am particularly disturbed by two. According to my assessment, the new system has not brought more rationalisation and efficiency to the country in this area. On the contrary. I believe that the system in place has caused additional costs to the State for the registration procedures. This is the cost of implementing the system from printed stickers to changing computer programs and so on. We have kept a traffic permit which is no longer a traffic permit because it does not allow anything, but is simply a document of proof of ownership. I ask the Minister a question and I expect an answer. What are the benefits and costs of introducing a system of stickers and in what way is the current system better than the previous one?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much for that question. First of all, I would say that in the Ministry of the Interior, we are concluding an analysis of the first period of the introduction of the new registration system and that, based on the analysis, we will do a lot of things, which will mean a more favourable environment for such services for citizens and citizens. However, let me say that we have introduced the new registration system, as is actually known, on the basis of the law adopted in 1998, after it has been transposed twice since there was no inter-departmental agreement on the fundamental issue raised by the new registration system or the fundamental advantage. In fact, effective State control over payments of three species which are very relevant to the state treasury or to the functioning of the system. On the one hand, the technical inspection or the fact that the vehicle is technically faultless, on the other hand, of the vehicle’s insurance, which is essential for road safety and on the third party’s road charges. Let me mention that the latter contribute more than 15 billion Slovenian tolls per year to the state budget and that insurance amounts to over 42 billion. The control system is therefore such that it covers all three payments or all three operations. Of course, when the new registration system was put in place, we pursued other objectives, particularly by introducing a vehicle identification document that does not change in the same way as a very widespread European practice, but only proving the above circumstances annually and thus becoming a system of identification and documentation relating to passenger vehicles similar to that in Europe. It is true that we are missing another step forward, for example, to implement a system they know in Germany when the label is affixed to the license plate. However, the condition for this is that the registration plate is attached to the vehicle and not as before to the driver. We have followed yet another important advantage, and we are also achieving it in the introduction of the new registration system. This is the transfer of registration operations as administrative services to authorised service organisations and thus the decommissioning of administrative units with such administrative services, which in fact account for the majority of waiting lines in administrative units so far. This process has been initiated and is far from complete and far from well-thought-out and organised so that it can be assessed positively. Above all, we think and plan to take measures to increase the competitiveness of authorised service organisations, which means increasing their number, of course, strictly meeting the conditions and, on the other hand, training incentives for such training in authorised service organisations, so that they can take over all registration operations, including those not currently carried out, I have in mind the transfer of ownership, the cessation of registration and something else that many authorised organisations have not yet carried out. This is why training is being provided in service organisations following a single objective, namely that a citizen can perform this service in one place. Let me say that the advantage of regulation is that this type of administrative service can be arranged at service organisations, so far it is possible to do so anywhere in 42 units in Slovenia. It is true that the first year of implementation of this system is linked to additional problems, as traffic permits are also being replaced. It is also true that administrative units will be heavily burdened in the future by issuing new driving licences, as many as 800,000 need to be replaced in the coming years and the new registration of motor vehicles. It is also true that additional costs are incurred by the introduction of the sticker, but these are not the additional costs of the country, but the costs of such services are paid by citizens who, unlike before, pay more precisely 711 tolars in registration, which is the cost of the sticker. However, one and the other common costs are deducted from the administrative service fee, which is no longer payable. As I say, the introduction of this will have to be done this year. However, we expect that in the following year, when the issue of new transport licences is also eliminated, and with a better organisation, waiting types will be eliminated in authorised service organisations, whose number must also be increased. We have already drawn up some proposals in this regard and we intend to give them as instructions to service organisations over the next period. These proposals relate in particular to new vehicles, to the order of these operations, in order to first perform the payment of one and the other fees and only as a third technical review and to combine the operation of the technical review with the issue of the label itself or the installation of this sticker. In short, it is possible and we will do everything possible to eliminate irregularities or difficulties with the start of the new registration system with new, better organisational receptions, as well as training and increasing the number of service organisations. However, it will also be necessary to think about the next step towards development, as some European countries have, before mentioning the case of Germany, the piece of the label on the registration plate, but that, as it is said, requires changes to the rules, which is possible to prepare and implement the completion of this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u141	On behalf of the Group of Members, I would suggest, on behalf of the Group of Members, on the basis of Rule 29(2) of the Rules of Procedure, that a request be made for the State Assembly to hold a debate on this matter in accordance with this Rules of Procedure and also to discuss it as a representative of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group or at least ten Members, the National Assembly is obliged to hold a debate on the government's response to the question put by the Member. At the 13th meeting of the assembly, a discussion was held on the government's response to the request of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, so that the business conditions for the debate to be held are met. On the issue of registration of motor vehicles and the issue of the label, a representative of the applicant of the request may discuss this issue and Mr Dusan Vukko, then a representative of the government, has notified himself. Both are limited to 15 minutes in the debate. In the next five minutes, the representatives of the groups may then present their views on this issue. So much for an explanation. We are moving on to a debate on the response of the government or the minister on behalf of the government to the question of the LDS delegation concerning registration of motor vehicles and the issue of stickers. I give the text first to the representative of the applicant of the request. Then Mr. Secretary will have the floor. I am asking the representatives of the parliamentary groups who would then take the floor. Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u143	I would point out certain matters, according to the Minister's response, and earlier another dimension of this problem. In my opinion, there is considerable doubt as to the compatibility of the provisions of the Regulation with the existing road safety law. That's what I'm told by at least two facts. In particular, the Road Traffic Safety Act provides in Article 174 that motor vehicles and trailers may be in road transport if they are technically flawless and prescribed with the applicable technical inspection label. Article 188 provides that for a motor vehicle or trailer which has been identified in a technical inspection as capable of driving by road, a sticker shall be issued indicating the period of validity of the technical inspection of the vehicle on the vehicle, not the period of validity of the registration. Personally, I believe that the purpose of the legislator is clear from these provisions: the law provides that the label should only indicate that the vehicle is technically flawless, as it had previously been necessary to attach the minutes of the technical review to the administrative unit and the period of validity of the technical review. However, the Regulation provides in Article 79 that the applicable technical inspection label affixed to a vehicle shall, in addition to the technical integrity, also indicate the time for which compensation is paid for the use of roads and the time for which the vehicle owner is secured for car liability. And in this work, Mr Minister, I cannot agree with your first stated advantage that the country has established effective State control. The previous system of marketing authorisation had exactly what you claim to have a sticker, since the administrative authority, the administrative unit, did not give any driver a driving licence if it did not attach a certificate to the administrative unit that he had paid the toll or what you already call these road charges, and secondly, that he had brought the concluded insurance policy. Only on the basis of these documents has the driver been granted a marketing authorisation, extended marketing authorisation and whether the service was performed in the administrative unit or with an authorised operator. So, the claim that the system is better in this is not true. On the contrary, I think the system now in place is worse. Earlier we had only printed traffic permits, today the country is paying for the cost of printing stickers; today we are paying authorised persons sitting on technical inspections waiting for the girls to do administrative work and then taking the sticker, walking to the vehicle, sticker where it is set, and stamping. This is, in my opinion, a very well-paid person. In the meantime, he cannot do otherwise because he has to wait for the customers who need this service. The traffic permit, you say, doesn't change. Yes, this should not be a traffic permit at all after the new one, but this traffic permit or proof of ownership of the vehicle does not change on only one condition: if I do not sell my vehicle for ten years, but if I sell it after two months, I need a marketing authorisation and I will also pay it to the State, and, of course, a sticker, because I cannot remove it otherwise than to tear it down. That's how we did it. Transfer of registration services. I think that's the thing that's got a head start. That this Regulation has also established new areas where authorised legal persons and individuals will be able to carry out technical checks. But there's something interesting about that. Deployment of administrative units. I believe that we have now deployed administrative units to keep a certain cadre unoccupied. You're talking about new driver's licenses. Okay, so we're going to extend these driver's licenses, and 800 grand, and they're going to be working on administrative units for so long. But I have data from different backgrounds when they say, because now the administrative unit is no longer doing renewal of registration, that there are little too many people in these departments. Thus, it would also be necessary to make a certain rationalisation in relation to staff, transfers to those jobs where, of course, the need for services, administrations, shows a greater need. Of course, and another fact that proves to me, leads to or points out that I believe that there is a certain doubt about compliance is that the Government or the competent ministry has proposed to supplement the existing law with the same provisions as already laid down in the Rules. If everything was so clear and so fine, then this provision would not be necessary. And that's it. It was not the intention of the LDS Group to abolish this system in any way, because we believe that it is necessary to move forward. However, those who have coordinated and prepared this should have users above all. To make the system from a country's point of view, from a budgetary point of view, more rational. And I expect those costs. Do not satisfy me with the answer that the citizen pays only the difference of 600 tolars more than before. I want to know how much the state has paid more to put this system in place. Because the previous system was completely effective. It differs only from the fact that we no longer have an extended registration on the marketing authorisation under the new system, but some notes are written there. And secondly, that this system will eliminate all the ambiguities that occur in practice. Also for vehicles which need to be checked by law every 6 months because they carry persons. What, this one's got to put the sticker back on. What do you call it? There is no solution to these questions. Not to mention traffic accidents, when I or any of us or of the citizens may run into them, does not call the police, because by law the police do not have to deal with them, the windshield is broken, the sticker is destroyed, and then they cannot issue the corresponding documents for the new vehicle to the administrative authority because it has not brought the previous sticker. Even from the point of view of police supervision, the system is no better. A police officer still needs to look at the traffic permit. But that's not how he's gonna get the sticker. Thus, of course, it will take a lot of effort to reach these goals, which are both of you, Minister, as we Members, are identical: to have a friendly country with people.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I give the floor to a representative of the government, Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u145	Mr President is right to say that the introduction of the new registration system is accompanied by a number of shortcomings. Last but not least, we're in the third month of implementing this system or the fourth. It is a completely new, sufficiently complex system, with many organisational new approaches, including technological ones. For at least a year, we will need to go to 42 now, and later I think that in several service organizations, we will eliminate congestion or such complications. The proposer of this system was, before deciding whether to follow the exact letter of the law, as stated by the honourable Member, and to display the label only for the technical review carried out, or yet more broadly to protect the national interest and efficiency of the country and to establish a system such as we have that we have one system of control over these three areas, which are fiscally, as I said earlier, very important. At that time, we have identified ourselves as a single system of control and we consider this to be a success of interdepartmental cooperation, because it was actually a joint project of our ministry and the Ministry of Transport and Finance. If we had not done so, of course, we would have three systems of such control today. I wonder if such a system would be more effective for the country. However, I would certainly not be more rational, nor would I be more civil-friendly due to the triple nature of the controls. As I say, all these things require careful evaluation, correction of shortcomings and perhaps additions or corrections in more systematic ways. As far as the legal basis is concerned. The Member asks me what we have taken as the legal basis for issuing this regulation. This was Article 121 of the Road Traffic Safety Act and, in relation to Article 197, Article 88, paragraph 5. I would like to stress this in particular because this is what is truly broad enough to interpret, but nevertheless, the lawyers on whom we have relied, so that other conditions for participation in road transport can be reviewed in the technical review. These are the conditions under the Road Traffic Insurance Regulations and the Compulsory Insurance Act and the Public Roads Act. This was the legal basis, i.e. Article 188, paragraph 5. I agree that this has meant that we have reformed this part of the law in the proposal for amendments to the ZVCP. I agree that this legal basis may be narrower, wider, more or less restrictive. In view of the national interest, the proposer has identified himself in a more rational manner in this regard in the way that the system works today. In particular, I would like to point out that this system did not result in additional costs for the country; the price of the sticker is paid from the fee for the sticker. I said what a difference there is for a citizen who has to pay for this - but it is significantly smaller because the country has resigned in one part of the taxi for this type of administrative service. That's what I'd say. The objective that we have pursued is to relieve administrative units, including to reduce administrative work in particular in an area where administrative work is quite difficult and massive and is linked to waiting species. Recently, I visited some administrative units and asked this question, specifically a few days ago in Maribor. People working in these areas are first geared towards the area of denationalisation, or they will soon be diverted to the area of insurance or registration of motor bikes, which will soon become glass, since the marriage deadline will come to an end on 1 May. I believe that this is the beginning of some contribution to de-de-barcation, perhaps with problems, complications, but insistence on the quality of the work done by the authorised organisations and, above all, on the establishment of control. Let me say that the weak point of implementation of this system in the first period is also insufficient control, especially because we do not have the legal basis for inspection. The proposed novelty of the ZVCP will create the possibility of inspection, including as regards supervision of the functioning of authorised service organisations. That is how I look forward to the whole system being designed, as it is set to, when we address the implementation deficiencies, that the matter should work in accordance with the objectives also set by the Member, that is to say, for a citizen of a more friendly service. Of course, this does not preclude reflection, as I have pointed out earlier, on the second step, on the upgrade of this system, on any further simplifications, but further changes to the road safety law are needed. And this. If an assessment is accepted to return to the original concept that the label serves only to cover the technical review, this certainly means, and is a serious sign for two ministries to start establishing their own control system as regards the payment of substantial insurance and road charges. Before or before the implementation of such parallel systems, we believe that it would not be rational, but, if there is such a decision, we cannot abandon the current approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you. Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. I think we have already discussed this matter in this House on some occasion, and I would like to say, on behalf of our Group of Members, that the implementation of this project has been very poorly carried out in an organisational sense and extremely costly for consumers. I will tell you on purely specific occasions how this is being done in practice. I come alone from Ormož and we have the nearest chance to register a car in Ljutomer. We did this registration earlier in Ljutomer, and then you went back to Ormož, and you took care of it on the management unit. But this time you were told in Lutomer, where you waited for two hours to even come in line for registration, that you must also have settled car insurance. That meant two, whether you paid the insurance immediately in Ljutomer or returned to Ormož, paid the insurance in Ormož, and then again in Ljutomer, that someone professionally put this sticker on you, which, of course, you can put on, I'll say, every kid who goes to elementary school. As far as the cost is concerned, the matter is such that you had to deduct for this sticker to say in numbers, 1,300 tolars, I hope that this was the same throughout the country, and then to the one who put this sticker on, 1,200 tolars. Then when you came to your administrative unit to register your registration date, you had to pay a new registration card or what to call it, there's a new registration license, for which you've been paid an invoice of 3,500 tolars plus 200 tolars. If you add this together, this measure implemented by the government through the law, as the minister here said, cost the consumer more than 7,000 tolars. So I personally and in our parliamentary group understand this as some kind of bureaucratic measure in which the government saw the opportunity to "past" from consumers. I remember the debate a little while ago when it came to discussing that cars should be taxed. On one occasion, however, Montenegrins in our common country discussed cars as luxury. The question to me is whether it makes sense for us to see in cars the means at the expense of which we fill the state budget. I'd like to remind you that we've had several projects like this before. It took place, for example, in a period of time for European trailers, but it did not take into account a longer period of time, but the government decided that in a short period of time, all cars must be replaced with trailers for motor vehicles, while at the same time granting some institutions in that country an exclusive right or concession to do so. And that kind of trailer, of course, costs money. Then I'd like to remind you that we had to replace the safety triangles. In a short period of time, a request arose and everyone had to go to the door and do it on their noses. Since you have invented these stickers, which, in terms of road traffic insurance, by our estimation mean nothing, you will, of course, have to equip the police at the next stage with the appropriate technique, which will identify these stickers as some line codes, because otherwise this sticker as on the car itself, as colleague Vukko said, does not mean anything. We are witnessing, as we estimate in New Slovenia, extraordinary bureaucracy, which, of course, costs the consumer on the one hand, means increasing employment, the right number of people who have to work and, on the other hand, in a certain administrative unit remain indisposed and have no jobs. I don't know if you can just turn these people into a denationalization project overnight like you said. Denationalisation is just one specific work, for which a person takes quite some time to come to this area and to start working. I don't know if you can do this with these people all of a sudden. We estimate that such moves are unprofitable, illogical. That's what I'm gonna say. When I complained loudly before the window in Ljutomer where they were doing it, the gentleman in the background shook my shoulder like this and said to me, "Yes, you have accepted this in Parliament." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik will present the opinion of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We also believe in the Socialist Party's Group that the introduction of stickers has been an extremely bureaucratic process which has added to the unnecessary complexity of the process of obtaining a marketing authorisation. See, a simple look at the system earlier and now shows that the number of places where a traffic permit could be regulated has decreased dramatically. This could have been arranged earlier at all administrative units, at all the exhibitions of administrative units. Now we've reduced this to 43 authorized companies that just glue these stickers. What caused this? This has led to unnecessary waiting, discouragement, unnecessary travel, waste of time, and thus taxpayers ’ money. However, there was nothing essential to traffic safety. This is our claim and our knowledge. I'll give you an example. In the area of the lower Savinja Valley, registration could be arranged in two places within the administrative unit and at two centres in Celje. Now the whole valley, 40,000 inhabitants, has to rumble for this label in Celje, where there are severe species, complicated, waiting times. If you call it rationalization and if you call it a friendly state administration, then something is very wrong with the whole thing. But I would have opened another aspect. In our opinion, putting stickers on cars is an intervention in privacy. We've got the law on the state code. It's a license plate. If this sticker were composed or affixed to this license plate, it still works, but sticking these stickers across windshields is certainly an intervention in private property. Even more vaguely or completely inappropriately, this is true of motors. On motors, I wonder how the owner of a modern engine will look if you stick that sticker anywhere and then what happens to the food or the chrome, where this sticker will be glued, later on. Here you have completely overlooked one segment of users or one segment of users of marketing authorisations. We think that all of this was done too quickly, inconceivably, and underconceived. A simple calculation also shows how much these stickers cost. And it's about a million and a half vehicles a year, given that twice a year for vehicles over 12 years of age is required, the calculation shows a very high value that someone will have to pay for the remaining traffic permit, as it is. I wonder what they are doing to the government that is supposed to implement or are responsible for the implementation of the Anti-Birocratic Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinion of interested parliamentary groups. Since no one wants to present their opinion anymore, I conclude the debate on the government's response to Mr Vukko's question. And we're moving on. The next question will be asked by Mr Yuri Aurelio. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you, Vice President. Nice greetings, ladies ministers and secretaries of state. I have a question for Mr Transport Minister, Mr President. Again, the chorus of the second track of Divača-Koper. In the information you have addressed to the Infrastructure and Environment Committee on 4 February this year on the state of preparation for the construction of the track, you have written down after a detailed description of the activities so far, quote: "It will be possible to continue the third reading of the amendment proposal and to supplement the national programme for the development of the Slovenian railway infrastructure, which also deals with the financing of the construction of the second track of the Divača-Koper line, which also depends on the choice of variant in the National Assembly, after three studies are made." You provide studies and assess that activities in this regard are being carried out in order to build this track in the period until the end of 2006, if financial resources are available for construction. We're still in the study phase and reviewing variants. And it's still unclear where it's from to build. And the time is running out, and the yearbook you're mentioning, 2006 is becoming ever more utopian. As early as June last year, a group of members from Kopra called on the Prime Minister, Drnovsk, to make it clear that your ministry of transport is not in a position to answer the question of where the money comes from, regardless of the option to be chosen, that the government, as such, would speak about this project and also make appropriate decisions. As I am not aware of this, I am again calling on the President or asking you, Minister, to bring the problem to the government. Otherwise, there will be additional delays in the implementation of this key investment project, as defined by the Coalition Treaty itself, which may jeopardise its economic viability and eliminate, you know, Luka Koper from the more interesting logistics transport destinations on the third European transport corridor. You know that the 2008 anniversary is mentioned by traffic experts in the North Adriatic and Central Europe as extreme that the second track is not only built, but is already dedicated to its purpose. What can you tell us about this? I'm asking if it'll be necessary again, maybe in the fall, to ask if anything has moved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Minister of Transport, Mr. Jakob Presecnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. It is true that they are produced and are towards the end of the production of three studies, namely a study of a rapid railway link in the direction of the fifth corridor. [[it's about three variants]] , it is a second study, a study of the duality of the second railway connection of Koper-Divač, and a study on the limit capacity of the current railway with improvements on it. It is mainly about updating the Koper station, updating the Divača station, for signalling devices, extending the tracks at intermediate stations and for strengthening or new building of electro-spiral devices. These studies are all the way to the end. We expect them to be made within approximately 14 days. The results of these studies will, of course, be forwarded to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after the previous inter-resort coordination. However, these studies or the decision on the second track are, of course, urgently necessary before the amendment of the national programme for the modernisation of railway infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia is made for parliamentary consideration. However, I would like to point out at this point that the first or almost final results of the last study, which is the training of the existing line with the modernisations I mentioned earlier in the beginning, show that it is possible to achieve 73% of the track's utilisation in 2015 with the planned conversion at the time in Luka Koper in 2015. Modernisation or acquisition of more powerful locomotives would use this route at 62%, even in 2015. The results will only be known and the government will draw up an appropriate programme to address this problem in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you. Of course, I am pleased that Mr Minister is telling us about the stage and also about the data that may be completed in 15 days. But I still don't see in the scope of the answer to the question, but regardless of the level of the means, or just to modernise the existing railway or to build the fastest second track from where the finance is. How is this planned to be financed? Either from the budget, or from the participation of favourable loans, or from the participation of private capital, with the participation of Luke, Slovenian Railways and so on. Here I miss you, Minister, fourth study, financially. Depending on the variant, we will go to work to make this happen. But we still don't know how this is going to be financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Do you want to answer? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u157	Of course, when the government prepares a proposal for a choice or choice to modernise this railway line, which is absolutely necessary, it will also be shown, I will say, a financial contribution or a financial solution to this problem. This is an integral part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Mamić is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much. As usual, I have questions from the field. Besides having three permanent offices, this is in Ajdovščina, Vipava and Nova Gorica, but I also have flying offices all over Primorska. I'm asking a question from the Supreme Court. The Krajina asked me why some sacral objects were not restored. I said I'd see if they were released from the program and I'd answer them. I've never seen five of these on the list. These are the Church of St. Peter's at the Peratians, St. Peter's Church. Tomaža in Idrija, Church of St. Lenart in the Old Village, the Church of St. Katarina in Borjana and Maria Snow in Borjana. Now I'm curious, I don't know who's going to answer this, I don't care, but I have to answer people that question, so I'd like to ask you a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Baskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Ambassador! All I can say is that all of these objects are in various stages of the preparation of the envisaged works or of the restoration or restoration. So I'd like to ask permission to explain to you in writing what object is at what stage and when we're counting on it to be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Are you satisfied with the answer? Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you very much. In the lower Savina Valley we encounter an extremely high rate of unemployment, which ranges between 13 and 15%, while this area is also characterised by an extremely low gross IP per employee, which in some areas reaches only 60 to 65% of the national or national average. This is largely related to the traditional textile industry in our home, with all its problems. Here I would mention the Polish, Mick and Vransko factory, and not least the Prebold textile factory, which is in the worst of troubles and troubles. He's in the middle of a forced settlement right now. Once a large factory, with 1,860 employees, currently employs 571 workers. All these jobs are at risk, and forced settlement was introduced as the factory showed 1.2 billion tolar losses last year and all claims amount to about 1.6 billion tolars. I ask the Minister of the Economy, Mrs Petrinovo, what the Ministry or the Government has done with other ministries in the past to remedy the situation in the Prebold textile plant and what it intends to do in the future for a final settlement of the situation. The answer to this question will also serve to compare how the government has an attitude towards the textile industry in Savina Valley, compared with Mura or with government measures in other textiles across Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Petrinova, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I will simply repeat the known fact that the Ministry of Economy has been implementing the so-called only vertical aid programme for two years, namely the restructuring of the textile industry in accordance with the requirements of adapting the single market to Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The Ministry of Economy has no specific resources for any industry or industry. The Ministry shall participate fruitfully on the basis of its frameworks and competences and instruments at its disposal and in accordance with the functioning of the Ministry, in the resolution of this sector. In addition, the Regulation on the method of aid which a firm in difficulty can obtain in the event of serious restructuring was published in the Official Journal. This is said to be the case that the restructuring can be obtained on the basis of the relevant documentation on the basis of only its own resources, by shareholders, owners, banks that do not lend any more credit due to the company’s insolvency. These assets are short-term loans that an entity may acquire on the basis of the relevant documentation for the resolution of liquidity over a period of 6 months in which it is then required to draw up a restructuring programme. At the same time, of course, we are also preparing a law or regulation on other forms of granting assistance to firms in difficulty, which we are likely to somehow upgrade because this is a matter of defined resources within one month. We also, I think, last Friday or Thursday, had a meeting at our ministry, on the initiative of the textiles association at the Chamber of Commerce, with the visible representatives of this association or the directors of visible companies, where we discussed the development issues of this industry, not only textiles but also leather. I will also be complemented by the Secretary of State, Mrs Balochova, how the State helps this industry, including in the field of so-called redundant workers, various forms, active employment instruments and all other instruments available to the Ministry of Labour to intervene in such cases. That is why I would like to take the floor with Mrs Baloch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you. I could only briefly say that in that set of policies or measures that are not envisaged to solve some problems, the government has put in place a set of measures, especially for those potential or companies that face difficulties. One of the measures, or two, which are primarily intended for such undertakings, is a measure to preserve jobs in companies that have otherwise had business difficulties, but their exit is going in a positive direction. In fact, it is a limited measure for a certain period by which we can replace three minimum wages in the form of a subsidy to an individual who has thus maintained his position in the company instead of becoming an overworker. Another measure that is appropriate for such undertakings is the measures implemented under the so-called Labour Funds. These are measures where a worker who is already an overworker or a potential surplus, in short, if the undertaking finds that he will not be employed for a period of time, is temporarily returned or transferred to a work fund where appropriate training, retraining is provided. On this basis, he then finds work within the company itself or seeks work within one year in another company. A third measure, which is essentially a measure more to promote some new business opportunities when it comes to a combination of subsidisation, subsidies and assistance in the preparation of a business idea, a business plan for self-employed persons. Since we are speaking specifically about the Savina region, I would, however, like to stress in particular in this region, given that there are quite a number of problems on the subject of restructuring companies that have not yet completed this procedure, that the Ministry of Labour is the bearer ministry that is also carrying out the so-called Phare project before the structural or pre-accession assistance to that region. It is five projects that are currently being implemented in the region, mainly in the areas of training or retraining, because I have to say that 1,000 people from the region have already been involved and where the relatively high output of these people is then in employment. The larger project, which is planned already in the second half of this year, is the continuation of this project, where it is a two-year project of about €4 million and where there are several priority sets. One of these priority sets will be aid for business, human resources and, above all, this is more about personnel restructuring in companies that have come into difficulty. Mostly it's a textile industry, construction, metal processing. These are areas that have been particularly problematic in this region and have not yet completed this restructuring. The target target for the region is also a considerable amount of resources. Of course, it also depends on how much, the region itself will be able to draw up appropriate programmes that can also draw on these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Complementary question, please, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u169	I thank the Minister and Madam Secretary for her comprehensive reply. But I'm not entirely satisfied with the answer. This is because I asked for a specific economic operator. These people have been living in very difficult economic conditions for decades, being fed, as far as personal income is concerned, on guaranteed wages - to prepare for me, I will be satisfied with the written response, whose assistance, for example in the last five years, this textile factory Prebold has received and what it can expect in its efforts to restructure or maintain jobs at this location in the future. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jože Ašič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much. My question concerns the Ministry of Transport, but it is also partly related to the surrounding ministry. I ask whether we have a transport policy in Slovenia, especially for the time after Slovenia's entry into the European Union or after the establishment of the Schengen acquis at our southern border, linked to the transit of Slovenia with so-called black or ecologically controversial trucks. According to me, the known data at the largest border crossing points in Slovenia, which will also be "bobodically beeping" checkpoints such as Obrežje, Jelšane, Gruškovje and others, do not plan some in my opinion necessary institutions, such as buses to control technical deficiencies of trucks or buses, which I think will be necessary in the future if this is not necessary at this time. In my opinion, too, there is no known information in the planning at railway stations, in particular in Dobova, which will be one of or the only border checkpoint. In other areas, we do not plan technical solutions at railway stations, where it is possible to load such trucks on trainloads and take them to their final destination. Given that the time for the adoption of the acquis, the Schengen acquis, as well as our expectations of joining the European Union, is in progress, and investments are in progress or at least planned, I believe that this issue is very serious. I am warned that this December of this year, our Ministry of European Affairs has also pointed out and requested some answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you so much for asking. I must say that the Ministry of Transport is not the carrier of these border points at the Schengen border or border crossing points. The issue concerns both the service of common services in our ministry and indirectly the ILO and perhaps some other services. I therefore propose that we draw up an accurate and comprehensive reply in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Ashish additional question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u175	I would like to complement this, because it is true that the service of the Joint Government Services is preparing a programme for those essential measures, such as the establishment of conditions for the operation of the customs service, veterinary and phytosanitary inspection. However, transport policy in Slovenia is certainly in the domain of the Transport Ministry and, of course, this transport policy must be subordinated to all other authorities in future planning. I do not think that border crossing planners, both road and rail, have received such guidelines from the Transport Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u177	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. I have a question for the Department of Defense. In the media, we could tell that an embargo had been imposed on the export of the arms pipe to Syria. The business for the ironworks Levels is extremely important and the embargo, of course, can also endanger a number of jobs in the ironworks. That's why I'm asking the Ministry of Defence. When will the embargo be lifted? If not, what will be the fate of these pipes, or who will cover the costs incurred by the embargo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Janko Deželak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! The problems of exports of the Ravne pipelines of cannons have already been addressed at the Ministry. The Ministry’s reactions and actions are based on Article 77 of the Defence Act, which regulates the traffic in military weapons and equipment, also grants concessions, lays down procedures, authorised persons, authorised institutions. In short, it introduces control over such traffic, which is usually the case in all European Union countries. Under this Article 77 of the Defence Act, the WTO also has a concession to sell its own dedicated products. With regard to the end-user, however, there have been some uncertainties, in view of the positions adopted in this national council, that Slovenia joins the so-called anti-terrorist coalition, where certain countries have been defined, including the insinuated State, where it was insinuated that these arms shipments are sent as final users. However, we do not know this for sure because there is a chain of some intermediate articles that need to be specifically examined. When these intermediate articles are examined, when traffic is clearly defined, the special commission appointed at our ministry will examine this matter and come up with a final solution. The solution, as adopted at the Ministry level, based on this same quoted article, is temporary and will be replaced by a permanent solution to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Ana Marija Tisovic, who is not among us, then Jožef Jerovšek, who is not there, therefore has the word Mr Dorijan Marsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I am referring my question to the Minister of Transport. We have nothing special against you, but apparently there are some problems here that need to be solved. The expected construction of the section of the highway between Kozina and the Ankaran Cross began, but in the course of the preparatory works in the area of the future viaduct near Black Kal this enthusiasm at least in the villages and hamlets nearby not only dried up, but turned into bitterness. You're probably familiar with the Gabrovice protests that were bombed with stones after a non-professional mine action. The flight of stones and detonations caused significant damage to housing. Indignation also led to the fact that the operators had started with parts and mines as early as October and that the inventory of houses and other facilities had only been completed in January, so that operators did not subscribe to the list of all houses, which is at least totally incomprehensible by the locals. It was also incomprehensible that the operator of the written inventory report did not want to give it away, nor did it want to set up measuring devices. At the request of the competent inspector, the builder of Kraški changed the sub-contractor after that first non-professional mine action. The situation was slightly improved, and after all, a multiton rock came down to the village, for which it is a blessing that it did not even cause any damage or damage. The contractor is not concerned, however, that the remnants of the mine are scattered around hamlets and private parcels. Mine action takes place at least three times a day and is expected to take place for a long time, which means that the lives of these people are bitterly bitter, as even Polish tasks cannot be carried out. What will the Ministry of Transport, Dars and the competent inspection services do to ensure that work on this route is carried out safely for people and property? I'm also interested in what they'll do to remedy the damage they've done.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Minister of Transport, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The fact is that at this end of Slovenia individual sections are put to work or are being submitted with appropriate procedures is that we are essentially opening the entire route of this final leg against Ankaran with relatively high altitudes to zero. The fact is that the terrain in this area is extremely difficult and that and that individual works on individual facilities are actively carried out on heavy objects. I know the facts about these events. Of course, all events cannot be ruled out. Perhaps, however, by properly organizing the work, the performers can be softened to some extent, if not completely prevented. I don't have a final report yet. As soon as I get it, within a very short period of time, I will also inform you of the measures Dars has taken and the consequences and how the investor intends to ensure that such events no longer take place or at least take place minimally, and how the damage will also be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u185	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I think that there have been some problems in such a difficult area as Crassus, and especially at that section where the viaduct will arise, it is possible to predict. I've been talking to experts who get to know each other a little bit about mine action and said it was really unprofessional. And this continues to some extent. All I'm warning you is that I've been warned by the locals. If the authorities do not act, the locals have also mentioned the closure of the road as an extreme solution. I hope that this will not be in the interest of some of the engineers, that perhaps the deadlines for continuation or for the rapid continuation of the construction of this motorway will be halted, because perhaps the contractor has already somehow calculated that the deadline in question, which is signed and envisaged in the contract, will not be possible. However, I look forward to or look forward to the report you mentioned with impatience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The next is Dr. Jože Bernick, who is not among us. Mr. Maximilian Lavrinz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. I refer an oral initiative to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. A few historians first. A similar initiative, or initiative, regarding child care or changes in child care funding, was directed to the competent ministry some three and a half years ago. On the other hand, I have informed Minister Lucia Čok of this initiative on 17 May 2001. So it's not a new thing. It is, however, an initiative to amend and supplement the rules on parental payments for kindergarten programmes, which should eliminate the restriction on parental payments to a maximum of 80 per cent of the price of the programme. The amendment should also create a new 9th payment grade in which parents will pay the full price of the programme in which their child is involved. And why? The Kindergarten Act provides for more resources to finance pre-school education programmes, namely fund-raising, public funds, parental payments and grants. It is known that only parental payments and, of course, public funds are the main source. It's a bit of a bust in here. The Kindergarten Act provides that parents pay for public kindergartens a percentage of the price of the programme, which is determined on the basis of the scale that they class parents, takes into account their income per family member, compared to the average wage per employee. In more detail, parental payments are regulated by the rules on parental payments for kindergarten programmes. In accordance with the provisions of this Regulation, the minimum payment to parents of the first payment grade, at 10% of the price, and the maximum payment to the eighth payment grade, representing 80% of the price. The difference between paying the parents and the price of the program in which their child is involved is paid by the municipality where the parents of the child are resident. The eighth payment grade includes parents whose gross monthly income per family member exceeds 110% compared to the average wage per employee. In this payment class, parents are also found who are simply rich by all standards and indicators. They also, of course, impose a reduced payment of the programme of 80% of the price. Such payment, however, is considered to be a full payment. Such a solution is, in my view, criminal and, of course, not in the honor of the social state. I therefore propose that all family incomes and incomes should be taken into account when classifying parents into payment classes and - this is a new, new - property owned by the family. Such a determination of the property situation has already been implemented by the Law on free legal aid, which provides that the applicant’s property status is determined on the basis of his written statement [[...]] [[Pisk.]] I'll be done very briefly. And she fills it out on the form. We all know what this is about. Skilled entrepreneurs testify to extremely low personal incomes and thus, of course, belong not only to this class, which pays only 20%, but even to that class where only 10% is paid. This does not seem to be an honor to the social state.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-19-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u188	Thank you very much. This was a parliamentary initiative. Since we are not Majde Zupan or Cyril Puck, I would like to conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia very much for the answers provided. This concludes the meeting of the choir. We will begin the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the reading of item 1a of the agenda, and then we will continue the meeting at 3rd and in order to proceed. Thank you all so much again and good night!
