ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u1	I invite my colleagues to come to the large debate room of the National Assembly, we will continue the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, the adjourned item. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, a nice welcome to all! Have a nice and successful afternoon! We will continue the 12th session, and before that we will find out the presence in the hall. I ask for peace in the hall and for confirmation of your presence by pressing the "quorum" button. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm rediscovering the presence in the hall! Please, if you press the "quorum" key, we will determine the presence in the hall. There are 57 Members and Members present in the Chamber; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I would like to inform you, my fellow Members and colleagues, that some of our colleagues are detained: colleague Jelinčič, Vnučec, Janc, and for the beginning of the meeting to colleagues Kangler, Malovr and Trofenik. Everyone else, at least according to the list of excuses we have, must be present, including Comrade Malovar is with us. I have invited the ministers and representatives of the government to attend today's meeting; I also welcome them. Today's continuation of the 12th session will begin with the hearing adjourned 25. The agenda points, this is the interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the minister for the environment and the space of the mags. Janez is digging. I would like to inform the National Assembly that we have reached an agreement, a concerted agreement between the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the leadership of the National Assembly, after which we suspended the meeting at 25 on Friday at 2 p.m. and will continue until the end of today. That was the agreement, and I would like to check this agreement by voting on a procedural proposal, so that the national assembly will continue today and end the 25th item of the agenda. I'm putting this deal to a vote. I ask that it be defined by the National Assembly. As it is said, this was agreed unanimously by all the leaders of the Group. 49 colleagues and colleagues are present. 34 confirmed this agreement, 4 opposed it. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against four.]] I find that we have also resolved this issue. So today, until the end of the day, the National Assembly will discuss the question of interpretation until the decision is reached. Let me inform you that I have received 14 applications for debate, colleagues and colleagues who have the right to speak without a time limit. Everyone else is limited to five minutes. Let me read the colleagues who will perform in the order of order: colleague Kelemina, Podobnik, Kebrich, Dr. Brejc, colleague Ašič, Jerovšek, Pukšič, Dr., Tanko, colleagues Pohorec, Rokavec, Kremjar, colleague Može and Sok. This is a list of those who will have the right to a timeless performance. First of all, I'll take you to my colleague Kelemino's word. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, all of you! Initially, I would say that it is necessary in the country of Slovenia, and everywhere in the world it is so, at least in democratic countries, that laws must be respected. However, all those who do not respect the laws are subject to certain sanctions. In this way, I will only mention one example of someone, an entrepreneur or a craftsman who does not have an appropriate declaration, including a product that is only worth 500 tolars, paying a fine if, of course, an inspector receives at least 3 million tolars. For a product worth 500 tolars per individual, the citizen pays the minimum penalty of 3 million tolars. What happens if the law or more laws or even the constitution violates the minister, we will, of course, see it tonight. Just for the introduction. Otherwise, my debate today will mainly be based on the Minister's response to the actions he has seen, namely, to lay down a law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava in relation to the point of the infringement. In his reply, the Minister stated that the energy field had not come under the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space until 27.4.2001 under the law and that this could be limited to two months before the expiry of the deadline laid down by the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava for the regulation of concessions for HE Vrhovo and HE Boštanja. Let me start by saying that this is not true, as it were in the first sentence of the Minister's reply, although I do not know who was preparing this answer, I firmly believe that the Minister himself was not prepared by others, but by others. That doesn't even hold. The deadlines for granting the concession are completely different. Not the ones he listed as his advocate, Mr. Digač. But, of course, I wonder, we still had the Secretary of State or the Under-Secretary of State for this area, and this area was then covered by Minister Petrinova. And what did Minister Petrinov do during this time, from the takeover of the government until 27.4.2001? She had exactly the same powers as today as Minister Kopač, and she would certainly be able to carry out all these measures, i.e. to carry out the law. But of course we had Dr. Dove's Undersecretary of State, who is here today, and I welcome him personally. All these procedures should be conducted legally, but this has not happened. Then it goes on to say: in the time of the previous government, it is probably the government of Mr Andre Bajuk, but, if I am not mistaken, not all the necessary activities have been carried out to regulate concession relations. Again, the great untruth, which is also recognized in itself: the concession was granted on 9.11.2000 in accordance with the law, you also admitted this further. The Concession was divided. So don't say they didn't do anything. Then the following thing: At 9 a.m. 4.12.2000, the Interdepartmental Commission was already in session and began to consider the proposal for a concession contract. Look, this is a proposal for a concession contract, and at this meeting I was present and we started to discuss these issues. This proposal for a concession contract I think it was prepared by who was the contractor does not write here, but if I am not mistaken, Dr Pirnat was preparing the whole matter, of course, with his experts. This document was paid and was the basis for the preparation of a concession contract which should be signed in accordance with the law, this contract should be signed by 21.1.2001. And I don't think you can deny it. So, the statement that the previous government did nothing, no, the previous government did everything it could at the time, or most things. Then, the next thing the previous government did. The former government has reserved 5.8 billion tolars with a decision from the electricity system, on the basis of which it could and of course, on the basis of an investment programme developed by the Sava Power Plants, an investment could start on time, on time and in accordance with the law, I am firmly convinced, in accordance with the law. There could be no great delays. But what happened. This decision was also taken by this government, the next government to come, to annul and decide that such a way of building Savoi power plants is not appropriate and that it will not provide funds in this way, although we all know that all the power plants and power plants that were built in the previous period were built mainly in such a way that the funds were provided from the budget or from the electricity system as a whole. This is a fact, but now some new knowledge has come, new findings, for which, of course, this case was no longer appropriate. But we'll also see if we can see why. Then, of course, there is very important information here that I must say that the Sava Power Plants have also submitted an investment programme for the construction of HE Boštanj, produced by IBE. This is an extremely important information. I firmly believe that you will all be present because you wanted arguments because you all said there was no argument that there was no data. I will try, of course, on the basis of arguments. Therefore, I ask you to listen carefully, because you will certainly make a final decision on the basis of the arguments. So IBE, also the number here, which the minister himself mentioned, has developed an investment programme for the construction of HE Boštanj. However, of course, this ministry found that this investment programme did not correspond, of course it also set up a 25.1. Interdepartmental Commission from various representatives to review and evaluate the investment programme for HE Boštanj, and on the basis of this, things began to get complicated and go completely the other way. Look, before 25.1., when the Interdepartmental Commission was established, I have a record here, otherwise purely internal, but very important, and I will now read it. I hope it's not too long, or I made this note on 21.3.2001. I am very precise and I have sometimes made certain notes and see what it says here: 9.1.2001 was a meeting at the LDS, Petrinova, Kopač, Mr Golob, Mr Tauzes, Mr Anderlic, Mr Ašič, Mr Janc, Mr Pucko, Mr Miklavčič and three others were present, I do not know which. I didn't write that down. The conclusion was as follows: the conclusions of the previous Government remain. So those conclusions of the previous government on the provision of these 5.8 billion sitts from the electricity system remain. That was the way the agreement was concluded there. I hope these Members can confirm this. That's what I wrote. And I believe that record, and I know when I made it. The proposal concludes that three hydrates are to be combined. Well, there's already been a suggestion that, in fact, the Sava power plant will not actually be built, but that the Hydras will unite. Then I wrote below that it was none of this. The 5.8 billion money is gone, but of course it was already after 25.1. when the new Interdepartmental Commission was set up. Now IBE is in three days, look, I said earlier that IBE made an investment programme earlier for HE Boštanj, and now IBE has produced an investment programme in three days and has earned good money again. In three days, of course, he fixed something and earned good money again. I don't know who paid for it or how much it cost. That's what the rest of you are gonna say. The previous investment programme, as I said earlier, also worked on IBE. Most copied from the old and made good money again. The new project is based on a subinstallation of 5,000, of 500 cubic meters per 350 cubic cubic meters of water flow, for example Sava is designed for installation. This is a literal record, as I wrote it back then. Now Shoštanj and Bresetanica are being killed in the Savoy. The rest will have a hard time investing too. Soda is in big investment, they won't be able to invest in Savo for five years. Drava's got two years of investment and it's gonna be hard to invest. The issue of the construction of Bosnia will stand for at least one year. That's what I wrote down on 21.3. It's not in the plan. If there is a new location plan, it will be a long delay because all procedures will have to be repeated. This month will be holding on to the government and so on. In short, it is very important to record how these activities continued. Then let's move on. 7.2. The Interdepartmental Commission then met and found that the investment documentation submitted by the Sava Power Plants was not appropriate and that it could not be an acceptable document to decide on such a large and interdepartmental project. That's what you wrote down, that the commission found out that the Sava power plant d.o.o. As a concessionaire, they cannot break the financial structures of the chain with their own financial capabilities, nor can they break the financial structures of the chain for only HE Boštanj. Then, in order to amend the pre-investment design for the entire HE chain in the lower Savi and to take into account the real financial structure, it is designed as a new pre-investment design. Then the Sava Power Plants, Drava Power Plants, Sokska Power Plants should be properly organised and prepared a joint new pre-investment design to finance the construction of the entire chain. All right and all right, but then it goes on to say that it follows from the above that the concession granted to the Sava power plants was not able to realise this investment. That's how you answered. The concessionaire, who, by decision of 9.11.2000, as previously stated, received a concession, should be aware of his ability to prepare investment documents for the decision in HE Boštanj and the entire HE chain on the lower Sava, should propose such solutions as can be implemented earlier. That's what you wrote, but that's not true. That's not true. According to our data available to us and now I will also present them, the Sava power plant d.o.o. are financially capable of carrying out this project. It is, however, that the government, by all means, and in particular, Dr Golob, has made it impossible for the Sava Power Plants to do what the actual law adopted by this National Assembly has imposed on them. In order to support this, I will tell you here, I will read one document to the members of the supervisory board of the Sava power plants Ljubljana d.o.o. I'm not going to read the whole document because it doesn't make sense, but only certain parts. I will, of course, give you all this documentation for insight, honourable Members, Members. "At Sava power plants Ljubljana d.o.o. We have shown that we are able to finance the construction of HE Boštanj energy facilities in full in 2001-2005." Look, the Sava power plants say they're capable of doing this, but the government or Minister Kopač and his secretary of state did not allow the Sava power plants to start doing this project. They also claim, of course, here they claim that the Sava Power Plants are not capable of, and so on, developing these companies. Look at what the Sava power plants are saying next. From Slovenian hydro companies, in the last 20 years, the only Sava power plant is Ljubljana d.o.o. complete two new hydropower plants, HE Mavčičice and HE Vrhovo, complete with water accumulation and space management in the area of impacts of hydropower plants. The only one. From Slovenian hydro companies have only Sava power plants Ljubljana d.o.o. in its composition hydroelectric power plant with pipe horizontal hydroaggregates, this is HE Vrhovo, which is the first of the HE chain on the lower Savi. Therefore, they have the only expertise in the construction, operation and maintenance of such a type of hydroelectric power plant. HE Boštanj is exactly the same, hydropower plant HE Vrhovo, so it is understandable that it is the most economical, that the same new hydropower plant is being built and managed by the same professionals who already have the relevant experience. The following point 3 states: From Slovenian hydro companies only have professional employees of Sava power plants Ljubljana d.o.o. The experience in the area of a completely new hydroelectric power plant has been fully incorporated since the adoption of the decisions on the HE location plan, the last three hydropower plants, called HE Mavčiča, HE Vrhovo and HE Boštanj, which are in the management phase, for the space, for the remaining HE on the Sava River and so on. In short, they think they're the only ones who can do this. Then, even as the fourth very specific issue, the Sava River has the largest floodwater in Slovenia, which is more than 3,000 cubic metres per second in Posavje, which is why professional workers of the Sava power plants Ljubljana d.o.o. they can build anti-floating safe water management arrangements of the Sava River and other infrastructures from it and manage flood conditions in such a quantity of flood water during the construction and operation of the hydroelectric power plant. And then even a number of other ratings that the Sava Power Plants actually have to start building, like Bosniak and then the whole chain. But of course, concepts are different now. Here are the data of the reference company Savaska power plant Ljubljana d.o.o., where it is a whole species, I will not read it, of course because it does not matter, but so much that you will know the references that the company Savaska power plant d.o.o. has. in building, what they've already built, how they've maintained and so on. You have this at your disposal, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, and you will be able to see this. First of all, to tell you the truth, I'm no representative of the Sava power plants, really not that anyone would have read this to me by chance. All of you who were will be able to confirm this when we had different meetings in Posavje and when the concept changed, I have spoken from the beginning, okay, I do not object to a different concept. I do not object, but if it is a different concept, let dynamics take place on the basis of what we agreed on, which was already agreed in 2000, which provides for the law, that dynamics be realized. I don't care about the other one. If you have better solutions, if you have better ways of financing, this should happen. I don't mind at all. But what happened was exactly what I predicted. With all these changes, nothing else has been done but change in dynamics. In short, this statement you gave here that the Sava Power Plants are not capable of building these objects is not true. You just didn't give them a chance, you have to admit that. You haven't given Sava power plants the opportunity to make the references they have, that's a fact, with your policy, which you'll just explain what it is and what you imagine. But, of course, I'm going to say some other things here, but maybe even now. See, you claim, of course, that it would be necessary to establish some holding company and that now Drava power plants would be some kind of co-investor or even a carrier of such a project. Even the carrier, as if they were the most financially capable, has the only capital, personnel and so on and could start building this facility. Now I will show you one document: Opinion on the project of the merger of Sava power plant Ljubljana and Drava power plant Maribor. It was made by a recognized expert, and he was also a minister, if I'm not mistaken, Dr. Max Tynikar. And here it lists certain data and analyses, and what it says: Connecting or connecting between the Drava power plants Maribor and Sava power plants Ljubljana is not supposed to lead to ratings and advantages either in the business of both companies or in the project of building energy facilities on the lower Sava. And what did he find out? The need for conversion, and now it notes if, of course, after all the analysis it did, if the Drava Power Plants were to account for the appropriate depreciation, such as SEL, the SEL accounted for 3.5% depreciation and then created some accumulation from this, but the Drava Power Plants accounted for only 1.3% depreciation. 1.3%, of course, because only 1.3% of depreciation was accounted for, showed as a profit, of course, in their business. However, if they accounted for 3.5% amortisation, like SEL, Dr. Max Tynikar notes that they would actually show a significantly higher loss or loss of about 3.4 billion tolars. Therefore, due to financial fraud, combinations of such or other combinations show that Drava Power Plants are extremely financially capable of financing this project, and this is not the case in fact. This is just a confirmation that the Sava Power Plants are still capable of building this facility. If we continue, take a look at this, then, of course, before or before the commission that was set up, Dravskim, Soški and Sava Power Plants were ordered to prepare a new pre-investment design for hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, a new pre-investment design. This pre-investment design was then discussed at the meeting on 10.5.2001. And of course the Commission has adopted the following conclusions - I will then go in line. She found: The government estimates that the revised investment base is the appropriate basis now. The government then imposes another measure on hydropower plants. The government is in charge of the Ministry of Environment and Space to implement the concession contract on new foundations by October 2001. Look, this is where the government again commissioned the Ministry of Environment and Space to prepare the concession contract by October 2001. However, we know that, otherwise, they have prepared and I think that they have become aware of this, at least five or six amendments to the concession contract have already been made. [[...]] Even today, no signatures have been signed, and none of them are harmonised today. Not today. However, we had a draft concession contract, on the basis of which some claim that the best proposal was already at table 4.12.2000. That's exactly how it's lingering around here. But look, there's something else that's interesting. The new pre-investment design for HE at the bottom of Savi was discussed by the Interdepartmental Commission on 10.5.2001. Look, here's the paperwork, and now very interesting things are coming. Here's the paperwork. This is a contract, look, a contract, a number and so on, for 14 million tolars, signed on 7.11.2001. It was signed by Mr. Golob. I don't know how he didn't sign it. In his name, Mr Golob signed it on behalf of the Minister. In particular, look, earlier they wrote that they were considering a new pre-investment design, and here is where the innovation of the pre-investment design for the construction of HE on the lower Sava is ordered. So this has already been dealt with, and a new novelty has now been ordered. And for 14 million, of course without a public invitation to tender, the introduction even states that IBE is the only one able to build or produce this project documentation. Of course, I still have a number of other contracts here, all of which were set without public invitations to tender, to be implemented by IBE as the only one capable, of course in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, that is true. This is how these things can be done. But I assure you, and everyone who knows about design, at least 50 design companies in Slovenia are capable of producing such documentation, at least 50. But the point is, I told you before. [[...]] Look, at the beginning, I said that IBE had already developed an investment programme for the construction of HE Boštanj. The number and everything is here, that's what you yourself said, from the government. Then it says here that you have made a new pre-investment design and this commission has dealt with 105. Now, 7.11.2001 again, a novelty of the pre-investment design. You do the same thing three times. Three times like that, with little corrections and someone in this account is doing a good job. And who serves? IBE - as the only one capable of producing such documentation, which is purely misleading. Why is that? I mean, I can say it now. It is some old debts to repay or whatever, let us tie up, just what Mr Drnovšek has now said at your congress - that it must not be after some better, due to the approach to better information, to give to someone then "after" and so on after some family ties and so on. IBE so much that you will know, Your Honor, that, of course, once upon a time, he paid Dr. Dove specialization in America. And these are the connections. There are debts here, too. However, IBE, about two years ago, if you remember, in the newspapers we read these things, also took the directors of electricity companies to New Zealand on a trip. And there are these connections, where actually someone, based on some privileges, acquires then certain "after". Speaking of business, let me just say -- look, this is the 45 millionth anniversary of the new project for the construction of HE Boštany. This project, according to all logical estimates, the builders you learn about these things are not needed because the idea project has already been made. The idea project was made, and we all had it in our hands. A lot of us from Posavia had it. And there's no need for innovation here, 45 million have given the IBE back just like that. They will probably not build such a project, although they have already paid for these projects and should not continue to pay them and so on, of course this is another story. Here is another 90 million - this is all Dr. Golob signed on behalf of Minister Kopač, perhaps Mr Kopač does not know that this has been signed - for 90 million value of the programme of infrastructure facilities, along with the timetable. I assure you, I have reliable information and people can also come here that 80% of this data has been collected in certain places, but with Dr. Golob's directive, no one else can work as IBE alone. That's what I said, why, before -- why can only IBE work. It ordered the directive and could be done for significantly lower costs if a call was made, significantly lower costs, for half costs, for sure because the data are collected. It is also a common value for one project, for the same object, called the lower Sava, the same project. The total value of these contracts is 149 million, of course, which again does not exceed a certain limit under the Public Procurement Act. They were extremely careful that there was no need to sign, and that a prior invitation to tender was not required in accordance with the law. So those 7,500 euro limits, as stated in the Public Procurement Act, have been very well looked out for. So we can't "catch" them again, that they broke the law, but that they chose to be the only possible contractor who can do it, IBE, but of course it's worth considering. It's just that, of course, you'll explain later on why it happened that way. Let me also say that there has been a delay in building, for example, in fulfilling the law, to extremely different combinations, let's say only here, if I tell you, I know that you followed with the media, let's say a small holding company, Sava power plant, Drava power plant Maribor and Sojska power plant. Then they remembered it wasn't. I have a second date written here, 22.3.2001. Then they extended it to the Chestnut thermal power plant. Then it wasn't good again, and they remembered that it wasn't going to work out again. Then they made a new combination, now a new holding company, which already includes the Šostanj Termoelectrica, Brestanica and the Trbovlje Rudnik. In short, even today, it is not clear who will be building, yet today the concession has not been granted, even though all the hands have gone far, far. They've run a long way, they've run a long way. We should have already awarded a concession for the entire chain in accordance with the law, sometime by 21 July or June. July, of course, because we adopted July, so this law entered into force 21. It is said that 21 July should have concession contracts signed for the entire chain. We don't have anything done today. In short, the whole answer here is about a whole series of deceptions that I've already mentioned here, where you're guessing that you just couldn't, because of the foregoing, respect all these deadlines. Finally, you note that because the law has not been fulfilled, all the work in the preparation of projects for the construction of HE on the Lower Sava runs smoothly and that the non-signature of the concession contract has not yet been necessary or necessary for a single day. Of course it doesn't. I've shown it before, and I've said it. But here's another interesting document. I've got the papers here, too. Look, a report on preparations for the construction of HE Boštanj. This is also what the Sava Power Plants issued. And here, of course, he's talking about the concession contract right now. The Concession Treaty under this Act has not yet been concluded. This was 7.1.2002. It's this month. It's not far back. Last draft, no. 2 which SEL received in November by the concessionaire is not yet harmonised in SEL and is not acceptable in the form submitted in the company's interest because it is flawed, inconsistent, in particular in the following main elements. And then it lists a whole series of these elements in which it is inconsistent and unacceptable for SEL. The SEL also informs here, in this document, that its supervisory board has fulfilled all its obligations to obtain a uniform permit for preparatory work and so on, but then it does so to the Ministry of the Environment and Space, the area for interventions in the area and the construction of the facilities of state importance, has carried out a procedure of public decommissioning and so on and these things have begun to take place. But then they continue to say that the Ministry of Environment and Space, on the basis of these documents, is given all the basis for issuing a single building permit and the permit cannot be issued solely for the reason that the concession contract is not yet harmonised, of course not signed. SEL does not yet have the right to build on the land owned by the concessionaire, because all of these land is owned by the State, it still has no conditions and obligations to use the Sava River to exploit energy potential and does not yet have the other rights that are urgently needed as an investor under the building law. In short, by delaying the signing of the concession contract, all works on this facility stand. But there is another very interesting document, which I will now also present to the National Assembly, to get a sense of how these projects worked, much work has been done, but very little has been done. Look, I have a question here, and, of course, the minister then answered the question that he sent, it's signed in the back, mag. Janez Kopach, Minister. The question was raised by the Group of Members, Jože Ašič, Branko Janc, Anton Anderlič, Miran Jerič, Cyril Pucko and Roman Jakič. And of course on the basis of that meeting 9.1, look, you see, now they've mentioned that meeting on 9.1.2001, which I've been talking about since the beginning. That is exactly what it confirms right now, those remarks that I did not make up, which is that this meeting was, in fact, the internal record of 9.1.2001, but this meeting has actually been and is now required by the Ministry, the Ministry of Environment and Space, to be considered as soon as possible and to confirm the investment programme in order to provide funds for the construction of HE Bosniaks from the annual redeployment within the energy system, they say, these things have been proposed. This was then agreed, for the year 2000 and for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001. That's when these things were arranged. This is a document now. That I didn't lie before when I made that internal record, and so on. And then it's very interesting. Answer the Minister. These are official documents, it's not that simple if the Minister answers in writing. This is a commitment, it is an obligation that must be fulfilled. And here Mr. Minister stated, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 12th meeting, 7.2.2001 discussed the investment programme and so on and it is clear from the following that the proposed investment programme, the previous one, was not produced in accordance with the regulation, the uniform methodology for procurement from that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the opinion of the Interdepartmental Commission, which it has previously appointed that the investment programme under consideration cannot be an acceptable basis for deciding on the investment. Of course, this raises the question why the government, if it has been established long ago, since the beginning of 2001 did not require SEL to amend this investment programme. Well, they simply rejected him as unacceptable. Then he goes on to say: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia further found that a pre-investment design is needed for the project to build the entire HE chain on the lower Sava, which is also the basis of the investment programme for HE Boštanj, to be updated, taking into account the current situation, and to foresee a real financial structure, that is fine. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has found that Sava power plants Ljubljana d.o.o. they are unable to implement this project and the entire chain with their own financial capacity and so on. Of course, it does not yet claim that, with its own resources, if the project were to begin to be implemented, I think, the law would, too, allow it, as you know it, since we have accepted it in the National Assembly. There are many of you here who have been present in the adoption of this law. The law allows for co-investment and such and other forms, then recapitalisation. Then he goes on to say: In view of all the facts, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has demanded that a new pre-investment design be developed, that it identify the actual situation and develop a model for the full funding of HE on the lower Sava and so on. It also lists some financial data and so on. In conclusion, the Ministry of the Environment and Space, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, should, by October, prepare concessional acts and contracts for the economic exploitation of the water potential of the lower Sava, and it is likely that October 2001 is meant to obtain by the end of July all necessary building permits for the preparatory work for HE Bosniak. In short, it was ordered here again, or promised so that concessionary acts would be prepared by October and then the case would go on, but all of these things were not realized. Today, as I said earlier, this treaty is not actually signed and this is also an obstacle to the fact that the project simply cannot continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u3	Mr. Kelemina, if you'll allow me not to go unexplained. All you have now read is, in fact, the same statement made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in an additional response to the reported crimes, the apparent acts of interpretation. So that what you have just presented, the answer to the question is nothing new. This, however, has come to the attention of Members from a response in exactly the same content. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u4	Well, if you find that out, then you can go on, of course I don't mind, but I would, but I don't think it's that big promises have been made here that haven't been made. The deadlines were set several times, over and over again, but the contract, the concession contract, is still not signed today. That's a fact. And I was just citing information about what was happening to me during this time, and a lot of other things. But it didn't come to an end. Why it didn't come, of course they'll explain in the end. But in the end, you also mention, or some Members have asked, that there was no harm done, that there was no harm done in this regard. Of course, I will prove now that certain damage has occurred. In particular, because of this non-implementation of the law, the Municipality of Sevnica, Municipality of Radeče, Municipality of Laško and Republic of Slovenia is already underprivileged with the concessionary of the Sava power plant Ljubljana d.o.o., which has already built HEVrhovo and in which it has been producing electricity since 1996, should pay the concession or production there from 23 January 2001 at the latest, in accordance with the fourth point of Article 3, the annual amount of at least 7% of the value of the electricity produced, which for 2001 amounts to at least 80 million dollars. Since Minister Kopač does not or does not manage the concessional relationship, at least for HE Vrhovo and HE Boštanj, the appointed municipalities and the Republic of Slovenia will continue to be deprived of the concessional contribution from HE Vrhovo. From the report and the decision of the 5th regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors of the Sava Power Plants, which I mentioned before, if I am not mistaken, it is clear that, for that reason, this is because no concession contract has been concluded, a single permit for the construction of HE Bosniaks and preparatory works cannot be issued. This means that Minister Kopač also directly blocks the launch of the preparatory works for the construction of HE Boštanj. The location plan for the hydropower plant is known to be produced from 3 to 5 years and beyond, for which the project is extremely demanding from spatial, environmental, social and technical and technological aspects, the Ministry of Energy has not yet submitted a proposal for a real location plan for one of the following hydropower plants. Therefore, the same Ministry responsible for space does not yet have any programme to produce this and subsequent hydropower plant plans at the bottom of the Sava. Minister Kopač is thus directly responsible for the non-execution of the law and in this part for the delay and termination of the implementation of the HE project on the lower Sava and indirectly also for the ever-increasing flood threat of Posavje, which cannot be implemented as a result of the project HE at the Lower Sava. In fact. Mr Ašič knows what problems arise if those 3,000 cubic metres of water occur a second after the stormy Sava against the Brežicas, what floods occur and what damage it causes. And Mr. Minister Digger is blocking this thing and he's not doing anything to build this project. Unless the Sava Power Plants are built, of course, it is necessary to approach the construction of the safety dams immediately in order to prevent the greatest disasters. We know that it goes into billions of digits and it would be better if something was done in this area. As shown in the 2002 and 2003 budgets, the Ministry did not provide any funds for these purposes. Therefore, it is also evidence that the Ministry does not know or intends to implement that law. The Ministry also did not implement the third decision of the 26th meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, concessional acts and contracts for the economic exploitation of the water potential of the Soča River, what was agreed, if you recall, Save and Drava, on the basis of the Environmental Protection Act, to prepare a draft water law for the second treatment as soon as possible, which will provide for the establishment of a water fund as a budget fund, the source of which will be the revenue from concession fees for the economic exploitation of Slovenian waters. This is a special requirement even or conclusions that the government should also implement and because it does not implement these conclusions, there is simply no condition for work to begin economically in that country. There's only so much to explain. But, of course, I am also obliged, in the end, to tell our Sevniks and the whole Posav, because they may not have had the opportunity to hear this, even though I have said it several times. So if the current government were to take into account the conclusions of the previous governments, the previous government, the Bajuks, on the reservation of the 5.8 billion tolars, today, I guarantee, today in January 2002 Bosniak was already being built. That's a fact. And then, of course, Blanca and Krsko. In view of the design given by the Sava Power Plants, it was a real basis for other power plants to be able to build, of course, through recapitalisation, co-investment and so on, and so on, which is still somehow what they want to do today. However, so that, of course, the Bosniak hydroelectric power plant is not being built, but, above all, Dr Robert Golob and then, directly, Minister Kopač, Minister who helps Dr. Golob to do so. This could be the case. I would also like to say that certain statements made by Mr Kopač and explained them to the speaker himself regarding the acquisition of credits, favourable loans, should I say that no one has said that these credits were so unfavourable for his company or his wife's company. It was, was written for TOM+4, a lot of craftsmen, entrepreneurs, bureau took credit for TOM+4, but couldn't get it. TOM+4 gets companies with the best ratings. Take credit. I'd take that kind of credit myself if I got it. Not long ago, I took a loan that I had to pay TOM plus 7 percent for. I'd take tom plus four. TOM+7 on the bank, of course, for 2 years, maturity of 2 years. If you took it for one year, it would be 6% - TOM+6. But I'd take this 2+4 and I'd take a lot of it if I could get it. So it's not so embarrassing. But that's all I'd say, because a lot of people probably don't know about Slovenia. Look, here I have a list of five companies whose co-owner or owner is Mr. Copač's wife and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u5	Mr. Kelemina! I'm sorry. Let me remind you. By doing what you are doing now, you are exceeding the scope of interpolation. Not in writing or in extension there is no proposal for this. If Minister Kopač answered your questions, he too unnecessarily cut short the precious time of the national assembly. I'm sorry. Please limit yourself to the written debate, to the extension and also to the reply in writing that we have before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u6	Dear President! It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u7	The number of contractual partners of Mr Kopač's wife is not the subject of this interpretation and I do not allow you to read it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u8	I'm not gonna read it. I just said this. But Mr Digger himself mentioned some information that was not recorded in the interpretation. And if he cited them as his excuse, then I have the right to comment. Dear Vice President! Let's take a look at the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u9	I agree. Please, however, do not spread this with the contractual partners or with the ownership of Mr Kopač's wife.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u10	Then ask yourself why, for example, Minister Digger insists that we take a look at this connection. He insists that he would be the main investor of the Drava power plant and so on, of course, also because of all the other concerns. Here's the connection. Please! Can't I just say that there are connections here? If it weren't for these connections, I'm pretty sure it wouldn't have happened. What would happen to these funds if it wasn't honest - I don't know. Maybe it would be grants. I don't know. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. Just take a look at this. Before that, I showed you three contracts signed by Dr. Golob with IBE for around 149 million. Now, if we look at the article that it is and one of these contracts is also this for 90 million or this for See, in an interview by Del of 12. [[...]] [[...]] 2002 Mr. King, of his own free will, has no authority, has signed again with IBE. It says, "On Monday, I signed a contract with the IBE Engineering Bureau in Ljubljana for ideas projects." He signed them for an ideal project worth 90 million. And these ideal projects, I told you earlier that we already have these ideas. We already have innovative projects for HE Boštanj and we do not need to work on new ideas. It is now necessary to develop a PGD project on the basis of existing ideas, and then a PZI project for implementation. But not now again and on the basis of which authority I do not know, and then Mr King himself has said that he expects, if he does not happen to be selected as a concessionaire, that he will probably already have these funds refunded to him for ordering this project. Please understand that these are very strange things, strange orders of certain projects that have no logical basis, why it is necessary to spread money for some projects that we simply do not need; but if we need them, you will explain them, and we will explore these things further, because today, depending on what happens, I do not intend to stop this project. Then we have other authorities in the National Assembly and outside the National Assembly who will have to clear these things up if they do not. As regards the reading of violations of the law on the promotion of coherent regional development, I would also say that it is indeed very distasteful, or by Minister Kopač, that it is extremely inappropriate, in this way, to try to influence the balanced, consistent regional development of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I take the opportunity to say only that what will happen in which area of Slovenia must be decided by those people who live there. And recently, Maribor as the most important city in this country, the second most important city, has provided some autonomy on the basis of which they will decide their own destiny without deciding Ljubljana. It is therefore imperative that Maribor ensure this autonomy by having at least 300 billion of its own revenues from Dravograd to Dolenjski Spalice, if this is the Maribor region, and that they decide their own destiny. And the medical faculty can't be a question either, the patch of medical school in the fall of 2002 must be. This cannot be decided by Ljubljana on behalf of the Maribor region. And this right, now is the time, now is the opportunity for the Mariborians to secure it as well. And as a Member [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u11	Mr. Kelemina, I'm sorry, you're using your performance again to explain things that have no direct connection with the interpretation, the medical faculty certainly doesn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u12	This is a violation of Article 2 and Article 3 of the law on the promotion of coherent regional development [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u13	Which has no direct link with Minister Kopač, nor with his field of work. So please limit yourself to what you have proposed in your written contribution, where you have set the scope of interpolation. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u14	No, I just wanted to say that I am giving my support to the Mariborians, although I am not from this area, all the support to ensure this autonomy and that they will freely decide their own destiny without always deciding their fate elsewhere, as has been the case throughout history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Kebrich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I could be a little longer than my predecessor. I have collected all the documentation of the electric holding company and all that, and if all that was chronologically regulated by Mr Kopač's mistakes, this debate would continue for a very long time. However, since we are constructive, real in our democratic party in our parliamentary group of pensioners, we are looking at this issue today, I speak for myself, that is. We believe that we all have such and different arguments. We're sure of that. Others listen to it or not, after that human river, you can push the donkey to the water, if not, with a stick to drink it, and you can't do it with a stick, and no one can blame it. I believe that those who have already decided in one way or another are the harm of further words, even though there are many reasons for the public and for certain arguments. I claim and have come to the conclusion and belief that all matters were unnecessary, as we have already said, if Minister Kopač were reasonable and then listened to suggestions and constructive proposals. But now that we're looking at the actual situation as it is, something has started to move, it's gotten a certain pace when I'm talking about decentralisation. And I am firmly convinced that this pace needs to be accelerated, but not perhaps by blocking it with this or with another one, and we will reach what this interpellation is actually about. We will come to the conclusion that the Sava power plant chain will be built, we will come to what was the basic requirement when the Podravian MPs club started this action, and which was signed by 52 members of this national assembly, when Mr Kopač has not yet decided to listen to constructive proposals, but today we have rejected interpretations, such arguments and other arguments from his rejection. Late, unfortunately, but not too late, it would have been better if we'd done it a year ago. The government has on its agenda its meetings to bring about a rapid process of amending the concession law, which will then put matters in place, in order to actually be with that domestic capital created mainly by the Drava hydropower plant and with the domestic intelligence combined from all Slovenia [[because the potential is gathered in Maribor, where they have not only theoretical knowledge but also experience]] We came to this conclusion as soon as possible, which is what we want in this National Assembly and what is a national interest to start building a chain of Sava power plants yesterday, if not yesterday, because this deadline is too late, or at least tomorrow or tomorrow. I don't want to hold you back, so I appeal and please let's be brief on our performances. Let us say some valid arguments, although we know that they will not be taken into account at the fall of the minister, because when I listened to the leaders of the parliamentary groups, it was clear that Minister Kopac will unfortunately not fall, although there are arguments for this. If I took them into account, if there was anything in his pants, I repeat, I would resign myself and this whole process would go away. I conclude with two more arguments. Mr. Minister, we have written to you and you are responsible and answer whether you will respect the laws. You know the law on the legalization of blacksmithies, which can be legalized, or 20 or 30% of them, with this information you have to have, determined or legalized, or they laugh and say, all those who have legalized and paid all the contributions and benefits associated with it, are fools because they are honest citizens and they are smart and that. This is your responsibility, Mr. Secretary. Answer whether you will implement this law or act. You've got all the bases, you've got the plane footage. In each congregation, they know exactly what black construction is. That the state also has blacksmithing, it's a public secret, but you have to answer for it. You have the system, the inspection services are under you. Let them be entrusted with action in due course. This is also your responsibility, and if you do the right thing, then I won't regret it if you stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Here you go. Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Kebrič has now spoken mainly about the construction of a chain of Sava power plants. He kind of replicated me here, too. I would just tell him that because he says that it doesn't matter what it was or how it happened from all these discussions. The important thing is that something starts to work and that it starts to work as soon as possible. Yes, please! We're a state of law. We must not allow such irregularities as I have referred to here. I know it's been extremely complicated to present all these things, but here are documents, clear documents that show that even those who are very far away in this business don't really know what this is about or what will come out of it. It stalls in all respects, the law is not enforced. Please! At least what Mr. Minister should have done if he couldn't reach the prescribed deadlines in law [[We know it wasn't one case, but we've done it many times.]] I should propose amending the law in due time, and possibly only in those points, in order to change the time limits laid down in this law and should therefore be respected, and at least what I should do should be done in order to propose a change in the law within those time limits, but did not do so. Why didn't he do it to explain himself? But it would be a legal procedure and then we would all know, both in the National Assembly, both in Slovenia and in local communities, that there would be a delay in the implementation of this law. And you can still do that. Now you will change the law, you say, and you will grant the concession to someone else because the concession with this law is already somehow granted to the Sava power plants because it is the owner of the Supreme; you yourself know that. Why didn't you do it and consciously commit a violation of the law? Invi, Mr. Kebrich, you support such things. Yeah, and I don't get it. And it's not just that, because there's still a whole bunch of other things that my colleagues have already mentioned that I can also mention. Look, 0.36 tolar pays the whole of Slovenia for Ljubljana, some network. Yeah, well, please, where did you see that?Oh, my God! Where you have seen this, the Minister with some decision orders that Eles charge the network for all electricity produced in Slovenia, that all citizens pay 0.36 tolars for this Ljubljana heating plant. That's not true! And a whole bunch of other things, from irregular relationships in certain areas, so I won't point out, just there at the nuclear security agency or the nuclear security agency, where they're completely torn, they throw people in the hallways and so on, experts. Mr Kopač is responsible for nuclear safety, because this is in his department, for nuclear safety in the Republic of Slovenia. I doubt, given the relations that exist there on this nuclear safety authority, that the 2000 report, which we have also considered on the Infrastructure Committee, if I am not mistaken, is credible. I wonder if it's credible, on the basis of everything, of all the affairs that are taking place at this institute. And there should be an audit and even an international institution may be ordered to review if all of this is true. And the whole of Slovenia, everyone, not just us down there, in Posavje, is at risk. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u19	Mr. Kelemina, I'm sorry, but I don't want to be rude, you're exceeding the scope of the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u20	I'm done, I'm done. In short, it is not just that, but the fact is that the law has been broken and we must not break the laws. Finally, I have proved this to you now and I have said that the Minister should propose a change of law in these provisions; if he has not done so, he has violated the law. And I am very interested in what the decision of the National Assembly will be, of course others will say about these violations of the law, and I am very interested in what will be the decision, how you respect the rule of law and the rule of law of this country. We'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kebrich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u22	Very short. I won't answer the lines if someone didn't want to understand me properly. I am not in favour of Minister Kopač; if, my colleague Kelemin, we were to listen well, I asked the question of his responsibility, I asked the question whether he would respect the laws. I have only asked, and I appeal to my fellow Members and colleagues, let us shorten this debate so that we can come to others the same or for any other matter perhaps a little less or even more important. I do not hesitate, I do not deprive anyone of the right to express his opinion, so we are a parliament, but I appeal again and you do not understand me, perhaps on purpose, a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Replica, please. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. So I have to replicate Mr. Kebrich. Maybe he even got engaged. Because talking about going to more important points seems a little awkward to me. What's more important than talking about a minister breaking the law? I don't think it's more important than that. What, then, should citizens do if the highest authorities are already in breach of the law? That's part of the replica. The second part concerns what I also think Mr Kebrich has been engaged. In fact, at least I understood that if it wasn't, let him fix me. That, after all, this may have been the case, but let’s let it go, if construction was being delayed there, it’s important that something is being built now. But listen, this isn't working. Why?If this is analogous, then I'm asking you why we have a criminal code. Because anyone who breaks the law in one form or another, I will not now mention all possible violations, then I would say, it's okay, now you've broken it, maybe you've threatened someone else, but now you may have repented, and now you'll be working on it, and let's forgive everything, the important thing is that you'll be fine now. That's not how it works. That way there's no place in the world, and that's not how you can do it. For what you've done wrong, I'm not going in, in some area, you have to answer. But if, of course, you continue to do what is necessary, things will be normal. But if you sin again, you'll have to answer for it again. It's not about what you've done, but let's just forget it. It's not working. Because if that were the case, then countries around the world would not have a criminal code, but all the other things they say about sanctions. It is said that such thinking cannot be in this area either. And each individual must be responsible for his or her actions, whether he is a purely ordinary citizen who does not pay or not register 100 tolars of income, a pensioner, or if he does something worse or if the minister violates the law. That's exactly the same. Of course, but we can't make a difference. Of course, we're going to punish that little chicken thief a lot, but the one who's breaking something bigger, which has significant consequences, and we're going to say there, okay, if he's okay from now on, then we're going to forget about it. That's not working. We have to be principled, we have to have the same criteria for everyone. This is just the state of law. For all equal terms, regardless of position, sex, religion, color and whatever we want. I can't agree with that. That's why I replicated, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Another replica. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u26	Respectable present. It's a replica of Mr. Kebrich. That is, in the part in which he calls for his own, his fellow Members to limit themselves to debates. You know, Mr Kebrič, because in my parliamentary group, Slovenian national party or Slovenian national party, Mr Kopač has shown total ignorance. Mr Digač was not ready to come to us once and show his vision, his opinion and his substantive views for the future. If this was possible for government Members to meet with the minister mentioned outside this quorum, of course, then you do not need to ask questions like this. But the opposition Members, at least in my work, did not have this opportunity. And I think it is extremely unfair that you, as a government Member today, are calling on the rest of the Members to shorten their debates and move to a vote. We concluded at the beginning of our agenda and at the college last Friday that the debate will take place to the end today. Make it 10, 11 or any time. And this is what this national council has accepted. Let us now allow Members to have the secondary effect of interpolation, that is that the debate is being held. And I think it is right that today there has also been a debate on the local or regional development of the Republic of Slovenia, about an area that is poorly developed and is not going anywhere. It is therefore right for Members to make their views known. And just as they were given before me or as previously presented by the representatives of the Social Democrats or Mr Kelemina, we will also be served by the Members of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next one has the word of Dr. Miha Brac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think the interpretation is well prepared for my colleagues to make a number of important arguments in their performances. We have also found that all these arguments, all the material we have prepared, have been removed with our left hand, if we deny everything, in all respects it is irrelevant, we have done the right thing, Minister Kopač is clean and so on. Such behaviour, which ignores the documents submitted, shows that there is an autocratic political culture. In the Social Democratic Party, however, we advocate a democratic political culture. We would also like a democratic political culture to come to terms in this environment. Unfortunately, we are experiencing the opposite. We are even experiencing calls, as we have just seen, if there is something worth discussing here today at all, because we are all more or less determined as to how we are going to vote. Let us vote and focus on more important topics. This is also a reflection of political culture. But political cultures of the past, not democratic political culture. We are not talking enough about this in this House. We talk too little about this in this society. And of course, it is logical that the government is also completely inert at calls for democratic political culture and ethical conduct. Mr Kopač's response did not in any way reject what we wrote in the interpellation. Nor did his performance offer a single single support that could draw the conclusion that the interpellation's proponents were superficial, that they were acting perhaps too quickly and in fact too much in the desire that, as the minister said last time, not so much, but in the sense that they were somehow politically charged with a coalition man. It is also interesting that the government has supported Mr Kopač and that President Drnovšek has supported Mr Kopač in his speech, otherwise very skilful speech in this area. So he also supported his statement, including on television, that laws could be respected or not. You're going to say that a lot of people have said that before me. I'm afraid we should talk about this. Because that shows the essence of the problems that are taking place in this country. We are talking about being a legal and social state. We continue to listen to the Committees' demands that laws be respected. In fact, Members of the ruling coalition could, for example, show themselves and really wonder whether the Minister's conduct is appropriate to the Minister. Then, of course, they forget about it. Just as one of these Members said last time in my immediate vicinity, when I objected to, say, the legality of the Koper Congregation, we will discuss this when it is on the agenda. So you, the ruling coalition, are interested in the rule of law when it's on the agenda. Okay. Today, the rule of law is on the agenda. And I'm just wondering how you're going to decide. The space is empty, as you can see, and I hope the viewers can see it. And this confirms what Mr. Kebric said earlier: "The ambassadors of the ruling coalition have long decided how they will vote. They don't care what we have to say, because it was quite clear that Minister Kopač should be supported." This is said to be a party discipline over the legal order. And in these benches, there are diplomats and lawyers who know what the legal order is, yet they will vote against the interpretation and that the Digger will not be dissolved. It's a reflection of legal culture. And when you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, are trying to tell them what the rule of law is, I will have to remind you of your actions here today. But if I'm wrong, I'll make a public apology. But I'd be very happy to have this opportunity. Now that Mr Kopač has declared in public, before the eyes of the Slovenian public, that we respect the laws or not, not only was it possible to understand this as an invitation to it, if the laws are for them to be respected if they cannot be respected, but they cannot. It is also easy to understand this completely differently. In what way? We, the LDS in power, me, the minister, decide whether or not to respect the law. You people don't have anything to get into. Isn't that an extremely offensive attitude toward the crowds, to the people? You're putting people in a position of attachment to the machine so I don't use any other illustrations that might offend anyone else. From the magnetogram, supported by Mr Kopač, in relation to these loans and all these things, it is clear, among other things, that Mr Kopač says that "loans of money are usually the business of Drava power plants". That's what they say. Drava power plants take over some kind of bank function. I do not argue that it is not possible, following a decision of the Supervisory Board or of the relevant authorities, to say slightly more broadly now, on the proposal of the Administration for certain surpluses of the active assets to be carried out, I would say, redirection,plasma surplus funds. But borrowing money is not a matter of Drava power plants, because if it goes that way, then tomorrow they'll be selling cars and real estate tomorrow, and I don't know what else, everyone will be dealing with everything. So this is also one of the questions that I'm actually directly asking: is lending money to different stakeholders, money that has a basis based on the activities of a public company, money that is not actually a classic market form of money, money that is not generally available to all citizens, or is such lending of money even legal? I would like to ask the Minister for Answers. However, I also ask the Government's legislative service to provide such an answer, because I fear that Mr Digač will not be able to answer this question, but I would be grateful if someone else could try and help him with this answer. Mr Drnovšek said, as a reason to support Mr Kopač, that this ministry is very extensive, as we have subsequently added to it the field of energy. I mean, that's an incredible argument! One wonders whether the Prime Minister makes a fool of us and the public who listens to it or something. Yes, but who suggested that, by its very nature, a vast ministry be burdened with energy? Was that our proposal? Is that what we suggested? No, we have warned that this solution is very problematic. No, but first you make the structure of the state administration as you like, and then when you defend the minister, you take this as an argument - yes, you know, this ministry is now so extensive, so complicated that there is some mistake ever. You know, these are the things you tell someone else. For us who are trying to do serious work, it is an understatement not to say insults. Surely this is not an extenuating circumstance. Mr Kopač also supports Mr Drnovšek because of important changes to the legislation in the area of space regulation. And what are these changes? These changes will reduce the role of citizens. These are the changes that Mr Kopač proposes. Borders, milestones, neighbors are pushed aside and replaced by some technical standards. There are technical standards in the European legal order. That's right. But the neighbor is next door. And he has the right to speak his own, in the process. A sidekick in the process, no one can take that away from him. Now, after these "glorious" moves by the Minister, people will be completely pushed aside. I believe it is in the interests of Mr Kopač and all those who have used their position to build buildings, their houses and so on on, and I must say, because right now I am looking at this very side of you, thank God that this Constitutional Court has in at least one case held back the proceedings when it comes to some Members and important policies from the past and unfortunately to the present. So I must say that such arrangements are a reason, not a support, if we are talking about a democratic state, but a solution. And that's why it's no wonder that today and the last time, and even in the last ten years, he's mentioned polycentrism, centrism and so on. The fact is that Ljubljana is the center of Slovenia to concentrate capital here, that there is a lot of money in Ljubljana to treat it as it is treated. The province, to put it this way, all that is around Ljubljana remains in some phased backlog, which will slowly achieve the kind of relationship that we were used to in Yugoslavia. And the Minister of Environment and Space is certainly one of the key people who could contribute to this. However, as the debate has shown, this is not important. I'm not surprised either when you're so easily denied 40,000 signatures. Because people and their opinions mean nothing to you. When the time comes, you will use all the resources you have, and people will fall back and fall back. And the matter will be done. But good. We're here to tell you what's going on, and then how it's going to be. The Prime Minister emphasises the important shift in housing construction. Yes, listen, if nothing has been done in this area in ten years, and if something has finally begun to move, it is an important shift. This is the result and legacy of the rule of ten years of this government. And the Minister could, at the very beginning, if, of course, he had an interest in having feelings for people, trigger significantly better institutional procedures that would allow young people to get to their homes. Now, today, we quote, I mean, the Prime Minister states, if this is an important matter. Of course it's important. It's just very familiar. What was most "irritating" to me in the Prime Minister's speech was the statement: "The digger has made a mistake here and there." If you do a lot of work, you're wrong and so on. That's unacceptable. Such statements do not make us laugh, but they make you feel that way and speak that way. It is too much to say in a democratic state after ten years. It's not about anyone, but it's about the minister, it's about the top of the administrative political pyramid, it's about a man who has the most possible powers in some department, and it's in a department where there's already been a lot of violations. And in this department, we should make sure that the matter is really the cleanest thing to do, and it will be an example to all other potential blacksmiths and everyone else. No! No! It's a direct incentive, if you are, we've had a lot of work to do, and we've missed a rule. God help us, but somehow we'll apologize, and I don't know, we'll move on, the future is important! You see, my dears, that's not how it works. This is not possible in the rule of law. This country is not a country of law. And I regret that the Prime Minister supports such an opinion, and I regret that the government, in which there is also a whole range of lawyers, is peacefully overlooking notorious facts. And I believe that some LDS lawyers are leaving the hall when I talk about it because it hurts them. Normal. And they come back, maybe. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]] How will the Lord demand respect from his people at the head of the rule of law, if he does otherwise? His actions are also contrary to the code of ethics. All officials of the Ministry of Environment and Space had to sign, as all civil servants did, that they were familiar with the code of ethics. I hope the minister reads it, too. I don't know if he is or isn't, but from his actions, one would say he isn't. The Code explicitly states that a public official must carry out public tasks on the basis of the constitutional borders, ratified and published international treaties and regulations with honor and within the limits of this Code and with respect for human dignity. A public servant is expected to perform the tasks of professionally conscientious, impartially and qualitatively, taking into account the public interest. Public interest, please! And the specific circumstances of the case. It shall not act on its own initiative to the detriment of any person, group, person of public and private law. Only two other quotations: "A public servant must always act in a way that preserves and strengthens public confidence in honesty, impartiality and efficiency in the performance of public tasks." Does the actions of Minister Kopač strengthen this opinion in public? Of course not. The personal interest of a public servant shall include any benefit for him, his family, close relatives, friends and persons or persons of public and private law with whom he has or has had business or political contact. Private interest shall also include any obligation, either financial or other, relating to a public servant. Of course, the Minister is not a civil servant, but he is the top of the administrative pyramid and must demand from his co-workers that they comply with this code. Yeah, how he's gonna ask if he's acting against what's written here. We are aware that it will be difficult to gather enough support in Parliament, and I believe that Mr Kebrič is right when he says that things are already decided. What doesn't hurt me, but in a way surprising, is that adults in full consciousness don't have so much confidence, so much personal dignity, that they don't eliminate obvious political pressures and vote like the Prime Minister said. What I would expect from at least some members of the Liberal Democracy, but also, well, I will not expect from the Consolidated List is that they will do as they sometimes do in committees when they bring out the marriage, read the quote and say: here this and this is what it says. And then this is instructive for all, because we have heard what is written in marriage and are warned because we cannot all know it. I would like to know what their vote will be today. If this vote is in line with the demands of the Prime Minister and the Government itself, then, of course, it is really difficult for these people to see what they will see in the morning when they look in the mirror. We should particularly talk about ethics, but I'm afraid it doesn't actually show that it does, because few people are interested. But I think, given what I had previously warned by quoting some articles of the Code, that in this case there is also unethical conduct. Not only are we in violation of the law, but we are in violation of the values of this country, this society in which we live. And when the value system is not respected, then the way is open for nothing to be respected, nothing is sacred, the world is just a goal, and the means to achieve the goal. And that is proof of the moral erosion of society, if that happens. In my view, therefore, Mr Kopač's conduct is directly contrary to the ethical code, ethics, and the ethical principles of this country. But we're back. Does this mean that unethical conduct is in the interest of the Liberal Democracy and of course of all in the ruling coalition? I guess so. It's obvious that we're going to see again what you're going to say -- what's for LDS and so on, ethically, that's ethical, and everything else isn't. Well, we're not gonna agree to that. Nevertheless, when we think and if we feel that we are going to do so in the future, that some conduct is illegal and unethical, we will also advertise. Well, you and the media, and whoever wants to talk about the opposition not being inert, I don't know what it is, Kalimerian and so on. No, no, no. We have come to terms with our situation long ago, and we try to do what is proper. Warn the authorities about making mistakes. The interpretation we filed is this very act. We're warning the area of error. We want to warn the public of a mistake. We wish in Members, Members of Parliament to forgive, but also to encourage a little sense of legality and ethics. Maybe we can make it with someone. And if we can do that, it'll be a pretty good achievement. Of course, we must all be aware, together, that the ministers of the countries to which Slovenia would like to join must behave differently. There the minister falls, does not fall, resign as soon as there is reasonable suspicion that it was, for example, an illegal act. I am well aware of these cases, which many of us have commented very, I think, inappropriately. If a prisoner escapes Belgium, if a woman buys a plot from a minister at a more favourable price, what is the minister's responsibility? It's really not a big deal, people said, but the minister can't know everything. It is a problem, once again, which I have mentioned several times today, of political culture. And it's a democratic political culture. If we are to become seriously involved in European flows, we will not be by law, but by our conduct and most of all by the behaviour of the people who are at the top of this country. And if these people have no sense of legality, of ethics, then we don't belong in Europe. At least not with people like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The execution of Dr. Brajc has triggered two non-conclusions. First there is a replica of Mr Moge, then Mr Podobnik. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. If I understood you correctly, dear colleague Brejc, when you fantasized this moral ethical scourge, you also told the minister that it was his fault that the power plants were also involved in banking. They would probably do the same if the director of a security intelligence service or the police were to report that he did not act legally or ethically if he was involved in arms trafficking. "Quo vadis", Slovenia!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u31	Mr. Squirrel, please. Just a moment, Mr. Sponik has the advantage, and then Mr Brace has the replica. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I was challenged by a great performance by my fellow Member, Dr. Brejc. It was an excellent performance - that's what the opposition says. Dr. Brejc, I have the following question for you, or if you listened to me last Friday, in my capacity as chairman of the Group of Members, I have made the first public statement of the Minister's clumsy and false statement by the Prime Minister. He did him a left-wing favor. I did it myself first as a member of the government coalition. I said that it was unacceptable for the Prime Minister to say that something was good, something was bad, and we will put it on the scale; that is not the way to say it. If only one case is proven to be illegal, then interpellation is no longer necessary, then the Minister must withdraw himself. This was my position and this is the position of our Group of Members. But, Dr. Brejc, I ask you to agree to try to find this gap - ethical criteria, character criteria, cultural criteria in dialogue, political culture criteria are a different level than the level of non-compliance with the law. When the government confirmed the Minister's response twice, and when the Prime Minister so incredibly clumsyly stepped into his defence, he stepped into his defence even if he was unethical that I would not be insulting Mr Copač again, because, in fact, I appreciate him as a human being and also as a Member of Parliament, he was underestimated in his first performances. The Prime Minister took it all on his own. Now, Dr. Brace and his distinguished colleagues in the opposition, if you've read his exact answers to your allegations of illegal conduct, please tell me where he was acting illegally. Just tell me that and prove it to me, but you also have to follow his answer. Let's weigh his answer and your arguments, and then we'll decide. Unfortunately, I need to find out - I listened very carefully to you - that you did not comment on his answers. He answered your questions. The most unconvincing was in this crucial observation of that accident of his statement in the Dedications that he would not fully implement the law. He was the most inconclusive in his response, I agree. But the paradox is that, over the course of the year, the law passed to the last chick, if you remember; this is a paradox. So, Dr. Brace, it is crucial for our parliamentary group to prove unequivocally that the law was broken by the minister. Do it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. One moment at a time, one at a time. First, he wishes to replicate the implementation of Mr Mojet, then the implementation of Mr Podobnik mag. A visor. First this, then I'll ask you to raise your hands again. Dr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Mohet: If the director or the chief, the head of the Security Intelligence Service or any similar service were to stand up to him with a weapon, of course I would be very hard on him. As for the question of Dr. Sponik. Let's just say he opened up a very good subject. This is the relationship between marriage and ethics. In Slovenia we now have a rule in democratic regulation that anything that is not explicitly prohibited is allowed. We used to have the other way around. Well, here's the deal. And in countries that are dealing with the expression of a democratic state, this rule is one of the key rules. With one small delivery, which is very important. Marriage, therefore, is less. That's why there's more room for ethics. We have begun to design this marriage work in our country, and our ministers, and many others, have no idea about ethics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizjak, replicated to Mr. Sponik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you very much. In fact, I would follow Mr Podobnik's call and statements on the apparent infringements of the rules which are evident. It is my regret that Mr Podobnik has obviously not read neither the interpretation nor the extension and, of course, not the answer. Because I can't imagine how else I could say that. Look, there's only one case I'm going to tell you that's obvious, where it can't be excused with any comments that just convince someone more or less. This infringement has established a law on the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the lower Sava. This law clearly lays down the deadlines to which concessions must be drawn up, of course, through signed concession contracts. These hands are not respected, and that's obvious. They are not respected and therefore there is a very large project, which would mean the investment and development impulse of Slovenia, the Slovenian economy which deals with this activity and, of course, the regions of Posavje, where these power plants should be installed. These are the evidentiary evidence that I can read again, what I read the last time, here for the speaker, but it is proof that the Ministry of Environment and Space, which, of course, Minister Kopač, is also obliged to respect the laws that fall within this area, is clear that concessional relations should be regulated one year after the law has been enforced. This expired in the middle of last year, but it's not done. I don't know, but it's not an argument enough that the Ministry doesn't respect the regulation. If the Ministry was unable to resolve this or if new facts had been revealed, which is what the response states, if they found that Savoy Power Plants were unable to carry out these investments, they would have found a new solution within a given time frame and, of course, they had re-organized the rules of the game. However, the ministry did not extend this deadline, nor did it show any new solution, nor has it to date. Until today, when we've been breaking this deadline for more than half a year, nothing has changed. This is a manifest violation of the rule. And if I understand Mr Podobnik correctly, please read the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava and will find that the deadline to which concessional relations should be regulated has been violated. This cannot be commented on and explained in any other way, whether they are concessional or not. And there's nothing else. There was no other explanation. That's all. And since the concession ratio has not been concluded, it's a violation of the law. And I hope that, on the basis of this argument, probably, if I follow Mr Podobnik's debate, it will also be convincing enough that the Group of Members will take a different decision on the basis of what it has said and on the basis of what I have said. There's a violation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We would like to replicate the performance of Mr Podobnik if I have just caught my hands raised, first of all Mr Juban, then Mr Sok, Mr Kelmina, Mr Rupar. I'm sorry. You were before Mr. Rupar then, Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Juban first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I report first to the work as a replica of Mr Brejc, when he repeatedly pointed to the LDS, how we are committed to the Prime Minister and how we will proceed when we vote. I'm sure you all know very well, but I'm quite sure that I have not signed any non-dately withdrawal statement if I did anything differently than we did in the House of Representatives, unlike some others. For example, onion, we know the story of what it looks like to you. The second is a constant relationship between the reporting of non-execution. It probably refers constantly and again to, as Dr. Podobnik mentioned, the law on the repair of damage after drought. I and a number of signatories have been closely monitoring the implementation of the law, because we have tabled the law and then the government, one of your colleagues has been offered the Bajuk government, the government has been represented by the Minister of Smurfs and I think Mrs Srebotnjakova has been offered 3 billion all the time. Because of the time it was, the marriage then brought in 8 billion. Byuk’s government, Dr. Bayuk probably had nothing to do with it, had twice discussed the matter of marriage. I think in September and October, before the elections, we're in the clear. And she's taken twice the decision not to respect the law. And instead of 4 billion, she's agreed to realize only 3 billion. It is true that the elections were on October 24th, if we all remember correctly, and that the law stipulated October 31st as the deadline for 4.6 billion. Now, if by miracle someone, after the elections of 7 days, realized the remaining 1.6 billion, I think it's a full dose of cynicism and it would never be successful. And reading to anyone on this side that we don't respect the laws, then we should be able to read ourselves first. Next, you who were then in the government will remember how agriculture, then in the most difficult drought, was limited to using 1.2 billion from the budget and that part was not realized at all in that year. The offer to agriculture at that time in the preparation of the new budget proposal was lower than it had been for a year before, which means that the concern for agriculture was none of your business. And here to see how someone doesn't respect the law. But then what Dr. Podobnik said - 1.6 billion, which the then government did not implement, did not respect the law, then, of course, the government, which took over the commitments in advance, realized in the following year, the 1.6 billion in 2000, and all the other parts that remained, after the peripetions that we followed, and I will also say, to Minister Copacz, that it will probably not be possible to implement the whole law. In this way, to deceive the public and speak, to manifest illegality and legal immorality, I do not think it is fair and it is necessary to look first at the real possibilities, the circumstances that were at the time, and not to tell us what we should first see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sok. Procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u40	Dear Vice President! When I was talking about the content of the interpolation myself, I think about the relatively weighted content of the interpolation, you kept interrupting me and telling me that I wasn't speaking according to the interpolation described. Now, you don't say a word to Mr. Juban when he talks about the time before the Digger, about the previous government, and so on, what she hasn't done. Why did they not interpellate when they felt that these things were not legal in the implementation of the previous government? Why didn't they take action? Why don't you just let him talk about some relationship, about our contracts, and I don't know what, it has absolutely nothing to do with this interpretation. And you didn't interrupt it, but you interrupt me for every little thing, whenever I speak to you. That's unwarranted. And if you want to conduct the meeting properly, then remind your Members not to talk about content that is not in accordance with the interpretation. This is my procedural comment that you are conducting an anti-business session of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Just let me explain. Mr Kelemina, in the work you discussed, you have expanded the scope of the interpretation readings triggered by the implementation of Dr. Brejc, who has repeatedly reflected the unethicality of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the lack of respect for legality; of course this implementation has been botched by the answers why they do not agree with this. Here are two completely different areas and replicas, of course, mean disagreement with the execution of someone else, in which case it was Dr. Brejc. Of course you do. Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I think Mr Kelemina was quite right when he said that Mr Juban went into his debate completely out of context. Well, that's a fact, but you didn't interrupt him, and you're cutting us off from the opposition. And that's another fact. It is quite clear that we had an election in October. And this constant repetition of Mr Juban did not say the truth for the first time today, but it repeatedly repeats that the government of Dr Andrey Bajuk failed and did not want to and so on. No, she shouldn't have, because in November and December you gentlemen had authority. So that's not true. And you can say it all the time. The fact is that November and December belonged to the authority led by Dr. Drnovšek and that you were the ones who should have realized 1.6 billion of what the law promised at that time. You're not, and now you're assigning it to someone else. In fact, I wanted to replicate it to Mr Podobnik, not to Mr Juban, but to discuss it later. As far as you are concerned, Mr Podobnik, your discussions are also extremely fair and excellent and so on. You're saying you were the first to warn us about Drnovšk's statement. It's true, but it doesn't help us. We're not here to discuss the interpretation against Drnovšk. So just say that, as a group of Members, you will not support interpolation, but not turn this thing into one, I would say diplomatic conjecture. So if the arguments in this interpolationis are weighty enough for you, then that's your business. Look, the minister ordered and arranged the disposal of slaughterhouse waste in the most expensive way possible in Europe. The amount or expense of this work was transferred to the slaughterhouse industry. This, of course, retrograde then back to the consumer and to the farmer. Thus, these 5 billion and several billion, at the highest price in Europe, are now well transferred to the Slovenian farmer. And it is only right that you tell farmers that you represent them in such a way that they are paying for the most expensive disposal of slaughterhouse waste in Europe, and Koto, with these decisions, put them in, I would say, a multi-monopolistic position. The contract, which is written, is written in the same way that it was written in Koto itself. And I'm not sure they did either. As for his function and his blacksmithy, I've been paying attention to your debate. You said we were reading something from his childhood this way. And then you said that at the presentation, the minister himself said that he had experience and that he had waited nine years for a building permit. That's right. That's what he said. But then when he was asked, if he didn't start building against the paperwork, he denied it, he said no. And we couldn't then know whether the minister was telling the truth or not. That's what we found out later. Like now, we cannot know whether what the Journal says is true or not. We can trust him or not. However, the minister denied having anything to do with the matter when the Drava power plants offered or lent credit to the company because it was his wife’s principal. At the same time, he denied having any share in this company and did not report it as Minister because he had no share. It also says there was one share, but it was sold and so on. So we can just believe it, it can turn out in a certain time that it wasn't that it wasn't true. And you, Mr Sponik, will then come up with an argument, as you did in your performance, but why didn't you then tell him why you didn't fire all the guns, so you kind of expressed yourself. So that's why it's not easy, because it wasn't possible at the time, because we believed the minister in his word. Later, however, through various documents, it turned out that this was not so that Mr Kopač began to build contrary to the documentation and that the documentation was only later arranged in seven years, and he did then have great experience in obtaining a proper and credible building permit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I repeat to Mr Podobnik in the part where he says that we should state specific violations of the laws and not talk about other matters. My fellow Member, Mr Vizjak, has already explained in which case it was a violation of the concession law, which I have mostly been talking about. But look, not only did he break the law and not carry it out and so forth, but under the government law and also under the law on the organisation and work of the Ministry, if I am not mistaken, it says that it is also the minister's great responsibility to not act and to abandon certain measures. Nor should the Minister abandon certain measures that are necessary. And I've mentioned everything before, if you want me to read all this again, but I don't think it makes any sense, you've probably remembered. Because the minister did not comply with this law, there was considerable material damage. I have listed here at least 80 million sitts which have not been obtained by local communities from concessions. Because this law has not been enforced. In fact, from 21 January 2001, if the law were to grant a concession for HE Vrhovo, the local communities would receive 80 million tolars. And that's not the money right now. Plus, he left the measures and did not act in accordance with other conclusions and did nothing or did nothing to adopt an environmental law which would somehow define the basis for providing funds for the economic exploitation of Slovenian waters, which would then be allocated for these purposes. He abandoned these measures and failed to implement them. That's a violation, too. And all of these matters and the other violations that we are going to mention below, we think that there are a lot of valid reasons that these are specific infringements of the rules, laws and that there is no need to speak here right now, that there is no valid argument regarding the violation of the law. I think we've submitted them, and we'll keep them going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate Mr. Sponik on two points. In fact, when he mentioned that it was a paradox, the minister then enforced the law. See, if we remember what it was like, it was not the Minister's intention to enforce the law, they had already reduced those assessments of what damage had been done in the drought, but the government, President Drnovšek and Mr Rop helped him that night or the second day because they were aware of the political consequences of what the Minister said that there was no need to comply with the law. Others have come to realize the disastrous political consequences, but they have done the wrong thing. Instead of inviting the minister to step down, they were saving the boat. Mr Drnovšek did the same thing several times later. And Mr Podobnik, the second part, when you mentioned that in your opening act, you have in some way disputed with the Prime Minister - I must tell you that you have done this very well. Look, this is what you said: "Today, in the performance of the Minister, as well as in the performance of the Prime Minister, I have missed that I would simply be hindered from this statement." After all this time, it's too late, too late. See, in fact, you were much clearer today, given the statements made by the Prime Minister. I note that this is due to the fact that on Saturday at the LDS Congress, people happened, as the press commented. And it actually happened because they were there protesting exactly this kind of behavior, humiliating regions, people, insulting and protesting inside. And Mr. Sponik normally feels much stronger today in the coalition, because the ruling party is owned by [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u47	Mr Jerovšek, your colleague Kelemina will tell me again, because with your implementation you will challenge once again the parliamentary group of liberal democracy - and this has nothing to do with the interpretation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u48	Did he speak of Mr Drnovsk? [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u49	So I'm asking you nicely. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u50	Mr. Podobnik, did he talk about Mr. Schuessl in Austria? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u51	Not about him, in the sense of LDS Congress, but about its implementation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u52	me [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u53	in this hall. [[...]] So I ask you to limit yourself to this exercise.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u54	That's exactly what we're doing. But I welcome the fact that I'm done. I welcome the fact that there have been reflections in the parties on the basis of what happened during the weekend. I have seen in Mr. Podobnik's performance a substantially changed position and I think that a lot more members of the People's Party will advocate that in this country there will be respect for a political culture, respect for legality, and that even in this party, there will be accounts after this rebellion of slaves at Congress, that there will also be many who will be aware that it is necessary to respect [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u55	Lord Jerovšek, this is a second admonition.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u56	Legality. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar. Replica, I apologize, you have been notified in accordance with the order of Mr Podobnik, then Dr Brejc, Mr Ašić, Mr Juban, Mr Złubbec, Mr Anderlič. Mr. Rupar first. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I have to replicate Mr. Juban first. Mr. Juban, when will your heads be forgotten or will Mr. Bayuk no longer be present? Mr. Bajuk, his government can't be a year, a year and a half, and I don't know how much time he's responsible for everything that's wrong in this country right now. Not long ago, I listened to the president of the country, and he's still getting on his nerves, and he's still saying that he's, I don't know, in Argentina because he was up there. Start thinking differently, start thinking that there was much positive, that many bad things were inherited. I can also argue that Argentina began to fail when Mr Bayuk left there, you know, positively. And I didn't mean to replicate it to you. My purpose is to perform a replica to the former President of Parliament, Mr Podobnik. Mr. Podobnik, you and your client have decided not to support the interpretation. At least six violations of laws, various laws, including those under point 3 of the international protocols signed, in the Alpine Protection Convention, I will give you an explanation. Personally, I say that's enough if you're determined to have a spine. And you don't have it because you're a co-worker of this government, and if you accidentally operate on Mr. Copacz, then you have exactly the threat that your Mr. Booth will fly away immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u59	Mr. Rupar, I ask you to speak properly, however. These words exceed the limit of normal expression in this House, Mr Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u60	So, these threats exist, we know about them, and he's not here, he's not here to convince you. What you said last time, however, is that a representative from Styria will speak his mind and may have made up his mind, but the sand is in his eyes. You know, I once read a sticker on a car that said, "Thank God I'm Stajerc." Tell all the Styrians that LDS is not their god. So have a spine, and do what your representative will say, say, to justify his trust in the Styrian electorate. Having a spine may be more than a government associate. Now I'm handing you the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sponik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In my replica, I would like to be completely substantive and also some, slightly more offensive, words have not erased me at all, so I would like to replicate substantively. First of all, I'd like to say that I'm not a lawyer for the Minister of Mags. Janez Kopach, but I plead that we are right to him. Regarding the time delay or that concessions on energy potential have not yet been prepared. Mr. Digger wrote in his reply why he had not yet made them. If you remember, it wasn't until last summer that the department took over. In my performance, I also said that, unfortunately, he took it from his colleague, who did not run it well. Here you have to be correct and admit it; I have pleaded for it, for the correctness of his talks, and then we will put on the scale whether this answer endures your attack or not. Comrade Visjak, based on this position, I will not vote in favour of the interpretation, because last July, when this deadline was due to pass, this area was not yet reached. You have to admit that. Do you agree? That's one question. The second topic is related to slaughterhouse waste. Very detailed and professionally, you prepared the interpolation because you had good associates. And that's right. You have to admit, he's a magician. The digger prepared a very detailed answer, including an expert. I'm asking you if he had any of his key decisions. A digger of full government support? If that is the case, then the interpretation missed its goal. Not the minister, but the government. I'm sorry. [[A voice from behind.]] Not my colleague, Rupar. If a minister suggests something to the government, you can't interpret it for that. The government acts as a collective body and codecisions. That's the wrong understanding of interpolation. That's my opinion. You can make me feel different. With regard to the question of international protocols, I will look very closely at the answer once again and also expect what the Minister's response will be. If some of the findings are new today, it is also right to allow the minister to answer them. When we hear them, we'll decide. However, I have another proposal that is procedural or commercial, and we do not take advantage of it enough. In my opinion, it is a mistake to write in advance that you are asking for a vote on non-trust or for the Minister to be dissolved. Why? The Rules of Procedure also make it very clear that it is possible to adopt a decision after a discussion assessing the work of the government or of the minister and giving him precise instructions on what to do. I am sure and we never apply these provisions of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of this debate, the question of energy, the question raised by my colleague Rupar, should be the conclusions which I think the majority would support and oblige the Minister to improve his conduct in some way, but which does not have elements of illegality. That's why I suggest we do it. On the basis of the debate so far, it is clear that the National Assembly will not have the necessary 46 votes in order for the interpretation to be voted on because, in the debate so far, the colleagues who proposed the interpretation did not convince those who could vote for it that the Minister had acted unlawfully. But something is true, and this is another topic, it is a matter of political culture, of expression, of public performance. It's also a question of ethics that Dr. Brace was talking about. These are relevant questions. Undoubtedly, this debate will also help to make this debate very important for other public servants, ministers and all others. But here's the divider and I'd like to make it clear here. Colleagues and colleagues, I will listen very carefully to the debate and the performance of the Minister, and in the end I will decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. There are seven more replicas ahead of us. I hope, however, that we will then move on to a content debate and satisfy all those who are waiting for the Minister's answers. The replica has Dr. Brace. I don't think he's among us. Then, Mr. Azhish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u64	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. After all, I have been informed about the debate later, but it seems to me that I will by no means come to terms because there are so many replicas and because they do not see the end, I would like to object to at least two things that are not the subject of my debate. First of all, that Comrade Juban was actually very unjustly attacked to speak beyond the content of this interpretation. It seems that the Signatories also slowly lose the red thread, what is everything and what is not interpolation. Under the first point, the law on the implementation of drought is being interpreted. And Comrade Juban was the first to sign, but I was there to sing. I think all that's said about this law is the subject of interpretation. Even what does not "befit" anyone is that this law did not go into reality in the year before the new government's appearance, which is not an insignificant information, but it can be dissatisfaction with the signatories. Secondly, Mr Jerovšek, perhaps the people have happened to our President, but he has received almost all the votes of the delegates present. This may be some result of our internal democracy and democratic processes. But it is true, and we have never interfered with it, that perhaps a convention has taken place for your colleague, at your convention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u65	Mr Auschwitz, I very much ask that we do not go here to the unnecessary width which, of course, is caused by the implementation of the predecessor. Mr. Juban, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much. My colleague Rupar, I am pleased to say in my implementation that the implementation of Dr. Bayuk's drought law is probably not my fault. I'm gonna say that I'm sure it's not his fault because it would be very difficult for me to convict him of something that I'm sure he's not guilty of. Comrade Sok, you probably don't object to the fact that this interim government, I'm going to say so now, I'm going to deal with it twice and I've come to the conclusion that 3 billion are being realised. And you probably don't object that the law said 4.6 billion by 31 October. I won't discuss sushi again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Zląbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u68	I wouldn't have answered if it hadn't been for two colleagues from a social-democratic party to demonstrate the incredible ignorance of the Slovenian language. First of all, it was Comrade Brejc who, as the worst charge against Minister Kopač, quoted the sentence of Kopač as saying: The law is respected or not, and from this he learned the evil purpose of Minister Kopač to respect the law when he loves it. In fact, it is a sentence: The law is respected or not, only a finding at the level of conclusions such as: Today it rains, yesterday the sun shines. This is a simple finding that has no value. In short, Comrade Jerovšek has shown that he is obviously familiar with the rebellions of slaves, but apparently not in his own party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I really ask you to avoid us in the beginning when statements are made because they really cause unnecessary replicas that do not go into today's agenda. Mr. Anderlich has a replica. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u70	Not only is it a shame that we don't deal with interpretation and, of course, we can't, because what we said on Friday is obviously true, it's that what would be on facts, on concrete things, is little and there are no accusations. But I do have to correct Mr Jerovsk in his statement, which would also be intended for the replica. He probably didn't get it right, because I forgive him. Mr Drnovšk did not happen to the people, but the people confirmed that he was making a policy for the people and, of course, the result was very clear. This is a kind of policy that is close to people, and this convention needs to be understood in this light. And since I believe you've mixed this up, I wanted to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u71	Before I give my word for the replica to Mr. Visiak. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! It's really embarrassing when someone in their implementation in two sentences says some statements that, of course, cause things that don't have anything to do with today's interpretation. Therefore, I ask that in our performances we stick to what is ahead of us. Only two of the 14 debaters had the opportunity to speak today. Everything else is replicas. Therefore, please, Mr Vizjak, you are the last person to report to the replica so that we can continue the discussions. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I am also pleased with your guidance to stick to the content and, above all, to the arguments. That's why I want to do it again, because I can see that if someone doesn't want to hear the arguments, they can't hear them and, of course, they're not there for him. But I would like to stress again, and I am also replicating Mr Sponik with this. See, the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava was published on 6.7.2000 and, of course, entered into force on the 15th day following its publication, which means that it entered into force in July 2000. This is also true, and this law provides that concessional relations should be settled within one year, within six months for two hydropower plants and, of course, for all other power plants on the lower Sava within one year. This means that, of course, concession relations should be regulated by the end of last July. In view of this and as the reply says Minister Kopač, this department took over when it took over, and, of course, could not arrange it within the time limit after the letter of the law, because, of course, the minister did not do so before him. However, I stress that today we are the end of January 2002. It's been over six months since then. And even at that time, almost nothing has been done to regulate this concession relationship. When we wrote the interpellation, we deliberately did not include this in the interpolation, because we believed that it would deal with a delay, but at a reasonable time, given its mandate, when it took over this area of energy. But he hasn't. He hasn't taken it up until today. This is said, regardless of the fact that, even though this is not an excuse for breaking the law, it did not excuse the fact that someone had just taken action and that his predecessor had done nothing. That's no excuse. This must not be a violation of the law. However, it is evident here that this argument is also waning, because since Minister Kopač took over the field of energy, this is not regulated, and we note that it has not been regulated, and nothing shows that it would be arranged and that it will be regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The following debater has the floor, in order of order, as reported, Mr Jože Ašič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u74	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I'm sorry to keep you waiting; I almost couldn't believe it was the end of the line. There are two good reasons why I wanted to speak in the debate on the interpretation submitted. It is one thing, of course, that I feel somehow inconceivable to the problems of the Minister, Mr Copac. These problems arose after we, colleague Branko Janc, colleague Anderlič and my trifle, introduced into the procedure in the National Assembly a law on the conditions for concession for the construction of the Lower Sava. This law was later followed by various ideas on how to implement it. One of these is this infamous holding company, and so are the Sava power plants and the Sava power plant chain essentially twice the subject of interpolation - once because holding is not located where someone would think it must be, and the second time because the law is not yet implemented. And another reason somehow in this same topic that we have to talk about in the debate, because the interpolation proponents even borrowed me in some way, and whoever doesn't know certain relationships and reads the interpolation, and almost half of the interpolation is actually the arguments from newspapers and television, finds me there somewhere between the performances in August of last year's Reflections. There I said, I think something like this: "I think that the creation of the holding company is somewhat remote to the issue of the construction of lower-Savina power plants, but of course also to the conclusion that the entire investment work led by Maribor and in line with the ambitions that domestic operational, domestic and domestic companies would participate more strongly in this project in Posavje." This interview with Minister Kopač is the local correspondent of TV Slovenia, Mr Rowan, so that "we fear Posavci that we will draw the short end again and sell our space too cheap again". In this way, I am also directly involved in this, although I have not put this statement in criticism to the Minister, but in criticism to all those who have politicised this project, as has so far been the case, unfortunately this project has many times. In order for Minister Kopač to be guilty at this time of the ministry, that the Savoy Power Plants are not yet being built, he simply does not endure. If the minister could do it himself, he'd have stopped the chain today. The history of the Sava power plants, the chain of power plants on the lower Sava, is a good century, reaching the beginning of the previous century and we are now in the new millennium. Interestingly, there is always something that prevents the construction of these plants. The construction of a hydroelectric power plant in Krske was anticipated at the beginning of the previous century, as a support to the then rapidly developing electrification of the capital of the neighbouring country, today Zagreb. At that time, the energy lobby, represented mainly by coal miners, prevented the construction of this power plant because coal was the main basis for gas production, which was then the main element for public lighting in Zagreb. So we're at the beginning of the last century. During the war, when the Drava chain was also being built, the Germans also planned to build this chain, but fortunately they failed to realize, on our common luck, that the 1945 war was lost. Well, in the '60s, and especially in the '70s, it became a business again. She studied the chain on the lower Sava, on the middle Sava and also on the Mura. Back then, there were a lot of controversy as to where and how these power plants were supposed to start. Well, last time she came into some sort of priority of the lower-Savish energy chain at the time. After that, hydroelectric power plant Vrhovo began to be built. So it means that a hundred years of effort to tame something in the Savoy of Savoy Energy and use it as an energy potential has also been realized. There's only one power plant in the whole chain. At that time, the plantation also received a spatial plan, which was fully protected in the space to protect the area for the construction of the chain. Of course, we all expected that, and such were the professional reasons, that flood risk, infrastructure, in short, will be resolved when power plants start building in Posavia. Well, unfortunately, in 1994, when this Parliament passed the law on environmental protection, the Ministry of Environment and Space launched an invitation to tender for the award of the concession, but it was not successful. He was not successful again for one particular reason. In Slovenia we said that we will only build the Sava power plants with our money and that we will not leave foreign capital in this project. The story has been tangled for four years between the Ministry of Environment and Space, for the economy, for the government, even many bots have been there, and finally it has fallen. That is why we have submitted this law to Parliament and Parliament has adopted it. Then some problems began. We expected the project to start as many projects began in Slovenia, either in Soča or earlier in Saviin on Drava, in Brestnica and so on. However, we have already adopted a new energy law that places matters on a slightly different basis. I cannot agree that, now in this last year or for the last half year, only the failure of the Savoy Power Plant can only burden Minister Kopač. I am convinced that there are energy circles behind this and all previous ministers, including those who were only six months old, which have proposed such and other solutions, so today we do not have a final solution to how the project will start. Another reason for me to come to the debate is contained in this interpretation. This is an accusation concerning the location plan for HE Moste. I have nothing to do with this, but it only looks like this, because this power plant is also owned by the concessionaire, in accordance with the law on the terms of the concession on the lower Sava, that is, the Sava power plants. Since I was also a member of the Infrastructure Committee in the previous term, I recalled that we considered the location plan or variants for selecting the location in the National Assembly. I've obtained a record from the services, and these assumptions are correct. 3.11.1998 was discussed under point 5 of the Comparative Study on the variants of HE Moste rehabilitation and reinstallation. It is true that Mr Pavel Rupar was not present at this meeting, so he could not have heard anything about the installation, as he said in his debate. However, we have discussed this at this meeting and adopted some conclusions which suggest that Minister Kopač has indeed not violated anything in this regard. On the contrary, he is doing everything as we have agreed and as the National Assembly or its Infrastructure Committee has decided. All I'm gonna do is read the vitals. The third conclusion is that the National Assembly notes that, on the basis of the expert findings, it is possible to consider as the most efficient option the proposal to build the HE Moste 2 system by raising the level in the accumulation pool at a corner of 524 m. 1. recommends or identifies the procedures for the implementation of this location plan or variant. Our committee also noted that it is necessary to amend the decree on the spatial plan of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, of individual municipalities. Our National Assembly adopted a decree amending the decree on the long-term components of the spatial plan of the Republic of Slovenia, where this variant is processed, but in macro form, because we know that the possibility of cartography is such that the micro location with the location plan itself is crystallized on the plots. I think that the interpellations here are strongly "kissed" and are, in their own way, irresponsible. If we knew what a time bomb the current jam is, we'd probably be driving the interpolation in the opposite direction, why it hasn't been realized yet. According to my data, this jam could either collapse or crash with some reptile that's threatening there. An earthquake can cause a barrier to collapse, and this can also result in a sudden, unpredictable blackout at the power plant. In this exercise it is, according to my data, 3 cubic hectares - this is some number that I can't imagine, this is an awful lot, 3 cubic hectares of sediment, of which 40% is occupied by uncontrolled discharges in all these years when Minister Copač was probably not even a student, and they ended up in this Accumulation Pool from Acroni Jesenica or the former Iron Jesenica. According to this information, they contain all these sediments of phenols, heavy metals, in short, something terribly ugly, which can put the environment at risk, and not only the environment that the applicants warn about, but the environment all the way to Mavčič, but also under Mavčič. I don't think we can at this point in any way conclude on the responsibility of Minister Kopach, except in the other part, if he was guilty of preventing the rehabilitation of this facility, which is extremely dangerous to the environment. Well, and I won't be too long, and the president's been warning me a little bit, and I think it's best if I finish slowly. I'm sure I didn't hear anyone tell me to vote against the interpretation. However, I will vote against, in the belief that even if the interpretation could succeed, this could only be more damaging, both to the implementation of the project of the lower Sava chain and, of course, to the HE Moste rehabilitation project. However, I think that the solution to the problem of slaughterhouse waste should be commended in particular for the fact that this, in agreement with the local communities that have accepted these burdens, has been very qualitatively resolved in a country where, even for the municipal deposit of each region, agreement is difficult to find, here or elsewhere, we know that we all urgently need such projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Comrade Auschwitz. A colleague of Jožef Jerovšek, a colleague of Franz Pukšič, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The interpretation that we are considering today is not, in fact, intended primarily for Minister Kopač; we have a positive opinion about him as a human being and this is why this is a broader dimension. It is intended to make Slovenia a normal country. This interpellation is essentially, by its political, sociological and valuable core, a cry against injustice, a cry against inequality in this country, a cry against the non-compliance of laws in this country, and such a high political place makes such statements that laws in this country do not need to be fulfilled. If the Minister's well-known statements are not rejected in an appropriate manner, this is normal in democratic countries when it comes to a policy on the department that this is a resignation or withdrawal, then a lot can happen. Then it is the communication of wrong signals to the Slovenian public and also the wrong signals to Europe. Because Minister Kopač, in some way, based his statements on a policy of housing distinction. A harsh expression, but as a metaphor, it would be "a residential apartheid" when he stated that in the case of rights concerning farmers it would not be necessary to implement the law. And he also justified the distinction, some specific distinction between people, as to their ability and the appropriateness of citizens for certain national prestigious financial functions, by saying that there are no capable people in Maribor or, see, the criterion of equality has turned into its contradiction. For an influential city, professional qualifications, education, performance in previous jobs are no longer important, but it is an important criterion for the capital of Ljubljana, the interest of the centre and the financial interests of the ruling elite. These are the predominant criteria. And, of course, it is clear to everyone that this is a derogation from the fundamental foundations of democracy in every country. And now here, Mr President of Parliament, I refer to you, in your inaugural performance, when you said that you would advocate for more political culture, more legal culture in this House. I must say, we are successful together. In this House, legal and political culture is improving so that we can find out. At the same time, it has deteriorated dramatically at the level of the coalition, at the level of the region, at the level of the government. Here I am surprised, Mr President, that you did not, as president of a political party in the coalition, use your influence, your authority, to require within there, this is a criterion that we must not violate. I am also curious to say that the President of your second most influential body, I think from the Council of the Party, the Mayor of Maribor, has strongly rejected all this action by the Minister at local level. At the same time, as President of this body, he was not able to use the ministers of this party to ensure that the members of this party were able to vote against such conduct, which is eloquently contrary to values, including ethics and the morals of everything that must be in this country. And it's not the worst thing for a minister to have words like that to get rid of. Let's say he's forgotten. This also happens in other countries. This also happens in other countries. However, when something like this happens to him, the resolution of the fundamental criteria of democracy is very fast. Either such a minister resigns immediately or is withdrawn by the Prime Minister. And there have already been cases listed here today, and we need to list them again. Look, in Belgium, when a criminal escaped from court, three ministers resigned after two hours. Or give an example, recent in neighbouring Italy, or a slightly different one. When Minister Ruggero disagreed with the government's criteria, let us leave what policy this Italian government represents, but when it acted in conflict, not with state rules or with the constitution or democracy, but with the internal criteria of the government coalition, he resigned at the moment. In a moment. At our place, I wonder. Whether the values, the rules you have entered into the coalition contract, are binding. This is offered to people, to citizens, to voters, whether it's a piece of paper that's non-binding. Look, for the opposition, for our client or for the opposition, it doesn't matter from this point of view that the minister resigns. Our mined or such a disturbed minister is essentially politically useful. For with such a minister who has sinned against something, the ruling party will not be able to make an advertisement. From this point of view, this would be a success for us. However, in the name of respect for these fundamental principles of democracy, political culture, which you have advocated by Mr President, we must demand that such behaviour be sanctioned in some way. What has happened, what we say in this point, where we rely on non-compliance with the law on equitable regional development or this development strategy, is indeed a very serious matter. Maribor certainly suffered the worst blow with this in recent history, in the history of a independent state. See, in the field of electricity, Maribor has such strong references, such capable personnel, which also traded electricity, because there was the seat of the power economy of Slovenia. Only by implementing this centralisation policy, which we have witnessed in the last eight years, has the power plant moved to Ljubljana. Now to point to Maribor that it does not have such personnel, even though it actually has them, but from there you dragged them to Ljubljana, Maribor was not worried. And now to see this, it's actually separating people into two levels. In that situation we asked ourselves and today we ask you whether this is such an important financial matter, the only financial matter, this is essentially financial engineering in this transfer of holding company to Ljubljana, was justified from Podravja's point of view, Stajerska to request in Maribor. Completely justified. For this is an institution, and this is an area of expertise and finance, where part of Slovenia has all the necessary references and has had them forever. And it's all another insult. And it was an insult, and it was an insult, and it was a humiliation to these people. These people felt it and responded enormously. Although it was in the worst heat, it was probably over 35°C at the time or 30° and 35°, people were mass-signed, protesting against such behaviour. Members of Parliament also took part here in an appropriate manner at that time. 52 Members protested against this and I am counting on the perversion of Members, their attitude towards political and legal culture in this country. In this area, I hope that, Mr President, we stand for the same things that these Members will be able to do so today, that they will realize that, while they are in an ungrateful situation where their constituents are no longer able to believe them, not in their own words, but in their own words. Look, there's a new one in the file. Here is also the call for mayors of Podravskih municipalities to unitedly support the interpellation against Minister Kopač. I don't know if it's possible to get a bigger quorum together. At the time, public research was carried out, between 60% and 70% of the people did not support or condemn the Minister’s conduct in this area. Once again, it's not the minister, it's the minister's head in the first place. It is for this reason whether we will maintain the principles of equality in this country; whether all Slovenian regions will be at least equal in principle, whether they have the same baseline options, or whether they will be able to retain those in certain areas where they have always been at the forefront of history. If there is no political responsibility here today, then we can be afraid of what the future will be like. Once again, I expect that the Slovenian government in relation to the Slovenian regions - this applies equally to all other regions, not only to the capitals - all regions and all the provinces are in the same position and the Slovenian government must be the Slovenian government. In the case of holding, she acted as a Ljubljana government. Here I have in mind, of course, a synonym for the Ljubljana government in 1918, which did not respect the fundamental interests of Slovenia, which opposed General Maistre, considered him a madman, an unrealisticist. Because of the behaviour of the then Ljubljana government, Slovenia does not have Koroška; otherwise, Koroška Slovenija - because of the lack of understanding of the Ljubljana government and on the same level, the current Slovenian government - acted as a Ljubljana government to protect the financial motivators who are here in Ljubljana. Such a policy is, of course, to mine long-term vital interests of Slovenia in the long term, and even more. I join the view that the Prime Minister has not responded or has refused to respond. He has never identified himself until these statements, which are essentially unacceptable, and also to the signatures of the people, to the various assemblies that we organised in Maribor, where we expected him to accept us, he did not respond. He came to Maribor to an economic college, which was already in the middle of an affair with Chinese students, which is very strange that he went to such a location. And he didn't support Maribor from you. It must be said that he did not support Maribor, that he supported the incorrect conduct concerning Maribor. Another word about point 2 or one of the points of interpolation is that the handling of a harmful contract with Koto is said to be the processing of slaughterhouse waste. Mr Minister, I hope you remember that I am exactly January 25th of last year - what irony of fate, exactly on January 25th of this year the debate on interpretation began! - says a year earlier, I asked questions about this matter. Since we were able to assess very precisely at the moment what was involved in the matter is that it is a harmful contract in the country, that it is a contract that does not pursue the interests of Slovenian agriculture, Slovenian people who protect the interests of certain owners of certain companies and these financial interests. In addition, a contract on the export of fats of animal origin was concluded very soon and so on. I asked you an exact, precise question about all of this, Mr. Minister. Back then, it was time to retire, to think about it. Unfortunately, however, you replied quite arrogantly that I was performing in a well-known circle. You did not want to specifically answer the specific questions raised, but once again I stress that it was time for reflection. At that time, they could have taken you down by saying that you have been addressed to a financial lobby owned by these companies, for which the benefit has been totaled. And today we wouldn't have that story. We wouldn't be tempted to make that statement in the middle of the summer. Everything would have gone very differently. And not only will our statement on these slaughterhouse wastes, in this treatment of slaughterhouse waste, I must point out that you are in response, which has been extremely weak and poorly prepared by your colleagues, which has not rejected one argument that it is essential to pay for the thermal processing of slaughterhouse waste, which, of course, this government has imposed on processors, farmers, operators and consumers in later times. If the opposition had not warned about what is behind this, of course, the impact of the meat would have been much worse and the pressure on the producers would have been much worse on the farmers. However, since we have right immediately overlooked what lies behind this, what interests, of course, the government has also had to pay little attention to these financial interests because of its political credibility. However, at the stage of the preparation of this contract, Minister Rob sent his protest as a finance minister concerning the items of this contract. It says here at the outset that the proposal for a contract does not take into account in any way the comments made by the Ministry of Finance in the coordination process. It is very clear from Minister Rob that the government must not conclude contracts which are clearly contrary to the law. It lists several items. In the price structure for the thermal treatment of these slaughterhouse wastes, Koto charged unacceptable items: transport services, depreciation of new investments, reorganisation deficit, expected inflation 9.2 per cent, 2 per cent [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] return on capital invested and so on. [[...]] All of this is disputed by Minister Rob that I will only make his arguments. And on the basis of this and here, they argue that the price that is recognised to Kot, which is 53 percent of the cost over what could have been, is said to be too high a price for these processors for 100 percent. The answer, because I also cited it at the time, was, Mr Minister, that the comments were that you had summarized something, but that the corrections were more or less editorial in view of this protest by Minister Ropa, and that part of this intervention by Minister Ropa is pure nonsense. It's pure nonsense. I'm wondering if Minister Rob was responding to that, too. I know that there's an audio record here of how he reacted to his fellow Member, that he's going to sue him and that he's "stupid" or I don't know what he said. Did he also press charges against his ministerial colleague? If it is consistent, I would expect it to be, because there has actually been a worse rejection of its own integrity than there in another statement. In response to the interpolation, the minister admitted or clearly wrote down because it cannot be cancelled without arguing that the processing of slaughterhouse waste is the most expensive in Slovenia. Officially, it's about 18 percent more expensive. And look, even though we warned in the opposition that this was unacceptable, it persisted. The answers were sharp, arrogant, cutting-off. In fact, this is from the government's response, the minister, that 18 percent is more expensive than the average in Europe. However, from some countries, comparable to us, it is more radically derogating. All this, fellow Members, is a burden for people who are not here from the capital. This is a burden for farmers who are already in an unenviable situation. They're being bombed today by all ministries. The Ministry of Agriculture every day invents new veterinary checks, new labelling, new pressures on breeders, under these burdens farmers cannot survive. And all this price of enormous profits, billions of dollars that went to Koto, where they were intercepted by known people, of course, on whose behalf this was done, are paid by farmers and consumers. We're eating much more expensive meat than we should be. Today Slovenian farmers sell their cheapest beef, cheaper than the previous three years. Nevertheless, meat - beef in stores, more expensive. Here you can see these disastrous consequences of a harmful contract, to which there was no proper hearing at the time of timely warning, there was no understanding. We believe that the Prime Minister could have acted on this matter at the time. Because clearly there was a warning about what was wrong with it. Colleagues and colleagues, there are many more explanations in this interpretation, as well as clear arguments that there have been many cases of conduct that requires certain political consequences. This burden of non-action, as I said, is borne by our people. I am confident that we will be able to understand why this whole matter was going on in this Chamber. It's about centralization, unwarranted centralization. Such centralisations resist at local level, ordinary people, in customers resist centralisation, everywhere. They resist everywhere, and this is an unjustified policy of total centralisation. Why is it unable to listen to the Slovenian government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. The word I'm giving you has a replica? [[...]] Please, colleague mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. I object to my colleague Jerovšk, not in the part where we probably both agree that signs of uneven and uncoordinated regional development appear in Slovenia. I object, however, to the part in which Mr Jerovšek handed down a valuable judgment on the work of the Mayor of Maribor and, at the same time, to the United List of Social Democrats and its ministers, how they should act. Given that Mr Jerovšek likes to refer to the fundamental criteria of democracy, the advice he gave is in line with the famous Slovenian negotiations "the hungry crow pie". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u79	I suggest that this is not the subject of further discussion. I'm asking you to respect this arrangement. Because I will not allow the word of my colleague Jerovšek. It's not an object. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I'd be brief and I'd like you to properly replicate my colleague Potrate. In my statement, I said that ministers could have acted differently, but they should not have acted. Their political right is, too, to take on certain goals or some definitions that are not in accordance with the majority will of Slovenian people. But I pointed out to myself that we could do something different. That's all I've got [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] so that the entire replica was inappropriate. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u81	The explanations were given. A colleague of Franz Pukšič, a colleague of Janez Drobnic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, it's been a while since the controversy started about where the holding company is, what the holding company is like. At the beginning of last year’s seventh month, the Styrian Members’ Club wrote a letter about this. Therefore, of course, it will be necessary, for the first time, a bit of correspondence, and for the second time, it will not be unnecessary for this national assembly to be presented to these Members and, of course, to the Minister again what we read in his interpretation. Firstly, in relation to incompatible regional development or infringement of the law on coherent regional development, and secondly, including with regard to the construction of a housing house, which is also in interpretation. I believe he's the Minister of Magic. Janez Kopač violated Articles 2 and 3 of the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development by proposing, without all, indeed all professional arguments as a referee, to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia holding the power plant headquarters in Ljubljana. Why not all professional arguments? Because of the source I have at my disposal, this is the source of material for a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is understood that the value of individual shares transferred to holding - as a percentage or in numbers - is about 120 billion - that this share of the Drava Power Plants is 46 and exactly 45.9%, the Sava Power Plants 19.4%, the Soks Power Plants 13.3%. From that so-called small holding company then came the so-called large holding company, where it still has a thermal power plant, Velenje Pregovnik and Šostanj Termoelectric power plant. Some thought that this was no longer the same and now they say it - some of the 52 Members of Parliament - czech, we thought hydroholding, and now it's a bigger holding company. But from the same material from the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; Thermal Power Plant Šostanj is only 7.8%, the Coal Velenje 12.5% and the Thermoelectric Brestanica 1.1%. Or in other words, 80% is hydroelectric and 20% Coal Velenje and Thermoelectric Brestanica. So there are no, I will say now, somehow apologizing or taking the words and facts back, but if you are holding such a holding, it would be really necessary to have a seat in Ljubljana. In short, it is the holding of Slovenian power plants, whose main capital is about 220 billion and 80% of which is water. Centralism is the main source of congestion and tension, both in economic, economic and political terms and, of course, is all-round harmful, which hinders the faster and more balanced development of Slovenia. See that this is true, they wrote in their response to the interpretation: for the first time, on the first page or in this third chapter, on page 22, when the opposition appears to us a transfer of the seat, it is not yet established. Seat transfer - yes, from the activity. I used to argue why our perception is where the core is, where the seat is, where the majority of the activity is, that it's at hydro power plants, and that it's, of course, a larger part, almost 50%, of the Maribor, Drava power plants. Of course, such an answer does not really have any substance. Even more, they write: "So no headquarters or holding company business will contribute to increasing differences in the development of individual parts of Slovenia." Colleagues and colleagues, however, the change or relocation of support functions or the seat of holding company, which is not where it should be - so according to our belief in the Maribor region, is not the problem of Maribor, but it is the northeastern Slovenia, Podravje and Prekmurje, in this part, of course, the function of the electric energy holding company - it also necessarily involves insurance systems. In the banking system of the NCBs, for example, mainly through functions such as payment transactions themselves, through the function of credit activities. In the insurance system, it is clear, in particular in the form of insurance contracts, which is likely today, especially in hydropower plants, is an important part of the insurance company in Maribor. If we remember in 1998, already the Slovenian government wanted to move to Ljubljana's seat of the power economy of Slovenia, but they abandoned this intention after the rebellion of the Mariborians. Now, of course, this story has been repeated, explaining that Maribor does not have enough expertise. This is the famous statement from 24.7. when Minister Kopač said he hopes to claim that there are not enough qualified people or educated people in the field to operate a holding company in Maribor. Of course, arguments are completely different. It was hope. Thus, the main coalition party voted with its nine members to support the proposal to move or set up a holding company in Maribor. Apparently, the biggest coalition party was little concerned about what their government partners thought and, of course, they were continuing politics in their style. This is about the commandment, about the centralisation of the country, about the power in Ljubljana and, of course, what suits them and, of course, individual voters from the main coalition party are allowed to do so. It is true that three coalition parties who were voted on by the government raised some dust and pulled up their muscles. But after six months, that will has passed. Why, they need to know for themselves. Or is it just because they're in power at the table, at a cake where it's divided and ruled. However, if, of course, there was another reason for us to really want and want regional development, then we could also vote or force the majority government coalition party, the Liberal Democracy, to bring about this change. If they did not take advantage of this at the time, of course they have the option, Members and Members, if they took the signatures seriously, this possibility is now. However, Members and Members of Parliament, 52 Members are those who suspend not only the minister, but also the government and resolve. If you were serious, you will show by voting and, as I mentioned earlier, without the necessary apology; czech, we thought smaller, now there is a bigger holding company. I will serve you, colleagues and colleagues, as I deem necessary, with some information. The following information is provided from the Statistical Office. The population, if added together in Podravje and Pomurje, is about 440,000 inhabitants, 450,000. The central Slovenian region has 480,000. This means, Ljubljana and this central Slovenian region - statistically, we know these 12 statistical regions. If we look at population density per square kilometer, in the central region of Ljubljana there are about 200 inhabitants per square kilometer, arriving in Podravje147 and Pomurje only 90. Well, and if we look at the number of companies, there are 5,000 in Podrav and Pomur. There are more than three times as many in the central Slovenian region, i.e. over 16,500. If we look at the number of employees, there are over 150,000 in the central Slovenian region. In Podravje and Pomurje only about 80,000. Or as a percentage, in Podravje and Pomur more than 20% unemployment and in the central Slovenian region below 10% unemployment. Well, and of course from what, colleagues and colleagues, what they live on, it's net profit. This is also very interesting information. The estimated net profit is in the whole of Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u83	My colleague Pukšič, my colleague Pukšič, I only point out the extensive interpretation of the content of interpolation. Please, if you'll stick to the subject. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u84	I know a violation of Articles 2 and 3 of the law on coherent regional development, where the first indent of the objective speaks, the second indent speaks of reducing differences in economic development and of course the quality of life. So this extremely important data, profit, this is what it's made of, is about 120 billion in the whole Republic of Slovenia. There are almost half of these in the central Slovenian region. Almost half, in one region! And of course in Pomure itself, otherwise it is well represented by the ruling, the largest ruling party, is profit minus 5 and half billion. This means that the loss, in Podravje about 7 billion or together, if summed up, is actually zero, compared to those 45 billion in the central Slovenian region, where there are about the same number of inhabitants as the entire Podravje and Prekmurje. These are, of course, terrible data, which speak in terms of, indeed, not only Minister Kopač, but the mentality of this government for a long time - but clearly every minister in particular, who contributes, that is, to such a mentality of the development of the Republic of Slovenia. Look, in any other country, of course, this is different. And I'm not going to list the countries now, but I'm going to list the cities, but: there's a judiciary somewhere, there's banking, there's an economy somewhere, there's power and so on. If you have looked at the September 2001 political barometer - which is of course very important and I think it is important for the decision, today, for Members and Members - that they are privileged in Ljubljana. This is the position of the political barometer, so voted or defined almost 60 per cent; and 60 per cent of the people questioned: where they are privileged in Ljubljana - of course, a large proportion: better standard, job opportunities, school opportunities, access to other services, trade offers, cultural offers, etc. and so on. In short, this is a lot of, a lot of arguments that speak - in this decentralisation of us, in this indevelopment of our country and of course a terrible centralisation on the one hand. Colleagues and colleagues, I think it should go a little differently. Not to talk about centralisation and decentralisation, but the government here should do the integration of what is good and positive on the one hand and what is good and positive on the other. However, the good and positive, when we talk about so much about 50% of the total share of this holding company, of course from Drava Power Plants, Maribor, this should certainly be in Maribor. The second part, which I would like to touch very briefly only briefly, is, Mr Minister Kopač, but the following. The questions raised on the "hearings" included this, another issue: to conclude, you said that it took nine years to build or obtain documentation. So, we built others, and I didn't need nine years, and a few months ago. I assume you must have built it first and then started getting documentation. This was a question raised, but you answered, Mr Kopač, like this - you mentioned, there was no claim, "but if I waited nine years for a building permit, then I probably started without it". Your answer was, "No, it's not true." Of course, from all the documentation, from all that is attached, you have denied this very thorough analysis of some articles. Even your statements in your explanation of interpolation deny it. Minister Digger, you weren't telling the truth at the time. And, you know, there are some jobs today that say it's a condition that you haven't been punished; that is, when you apply for a job like this, you have to prove it with a certificate. We believed you then. Today you are proving something completely different. And maybe just for an illustration, and I'll be done. Because there was no need to be disclosed in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and so on, at the time of the acquisition of this aircraft, when it was about 10 billion Slovenian tolars and when young people, the Young Party spoke of insufficient reasons to support the interpretation; you know, such thinking, such a system of thinking is wrong. And such a system of thinking has led us to focus the development of this country on only one region, according to the data I have been talking about. Yet, you know, a thousand apartments could be worth 200,000 tolars per square meter and 50 square feet [50 sq m]! Thousands of dwellings in this Slovenian space, and of course that would mean something. Finally, Mr. Secretary. The first day I get the chance, I'll come to you and you'll give me the address, so we can also rent a loan for the municipality for TOM+4%, just as it was very convenient for Drava power plants. Why not also help Drava power plants and electric holding company, which is in Ljubljana, from the Slovenian Mountains, from the undeveloped Slovenian municipalities, because we cannot get better credit there than by TOM+4,5%, 4.7%. There's another way we can arrange for that, but unfortunately it's not. That is why, as you did not speak the truth during the "hearing," Mr Minister, we do not believe this time that you had no fingers in the first place, because you have already failed. And that's what I want to say. How many members of the National Assembly are privileged, as is Minister Kopač, who can buy state apartments. All the others, who are more than 60 km away, of course we couldn't do it, redeem it. Minister Kopač, although he had his own apartment, that he was home from Ljubljana and came by seduction to an office apartment - he bought it in the end. It is also, of course, a few facts, specific facts, Mr Minister, why of course a man cannot trust you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u85	Colleagues and colleagues, especially those who perform! The fact that there is no limited discussion does not, according to the Rules of Procedure, mean that we are obliged to be long in our performances. I am trying to warn the speaker that he is extensive in his broadcasts, because it is very embarrassing to interfere with the debate and to say that he exceeds the scope of the subject, but I will be obliged to do so if this continues. We have two replicas. There's a colleague of Azhish and a colleague of Terchon's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So either I replicate or I object to Mr Pukšič when he wants to translate this problem of regionalisation into interpolation. I object in a number of ways. Firstly, because I do not think Minister Kopač is responsible for this polycentric development in Slovenia, he did not reach this level in order for all regions to be equally developed in Slovenia. Secondly, it forgets that the subject of interpolation is also a delay in the construction of the Sava power plant chain and that the Posavik space is one of those that is least developed and has the most developmental disturbances. And, of course, holding on the one hand and politicizing the holding seat is one of the main reasons also for delays in the construction of this chain. And on the other hand, it requires that both the headquarters of the holding company and all the operating plants for the implementation of the Sava power plants lead from Maribor in a clear contrast to the ambitions of Posavje in order to realize the chain of Sava power plants, with its realization, have experienced accelerated economic development in various areas, including personnel, not only shovels, hacks and the like. And that is why I do not agree with you, and I think that if this project goes forward, we will talk more about the changes to the law, the terms of the concession already announced. I don't think there's any logic here, and that's why we can only magnify one room and expect to support the interpolation or do another stupid thing, because we don't do a project that we've been working for in Parliament and all the Members of Parliament at the time, and which means development ambitions for Posavius, of course, we don't hold back. And in any case, I think that what I have already announced - the resolution of the digger can only mean a further postponement of the project, which is extremely important for Posavje. And Posavije expects, of course, that the project will be run from Posavje and Posavje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Comrade Terchon you have a replica of the performance of colleague Pukšič, behind you mag. The visionary, including the replica. Please, Comrade Tarchoon first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I have a replica. I must say, quite a few colleagues from the Social Democratic Party have become over-centralised. I must tell you that in most ways I agree with them, with the conclusion that there has been too much centralisation in Slovenia since independence. Mr Brejc had earlier found that it would lead us - such a development that it would even lead us to the situation that was in the former Yugoslavia. I have to say, I don't agree with him here. In fact, all the data say that in Slovenia, within Slovenia, the differences between the most developed region and the least developed regions are higher than the more subjugated country. Of course, I understand that the source of all evil is for social Democrats, but in the former country and the former system. But the truth of the matter needs to be determined. However, I do not agree with the way we imagine that we will come to decentralisation. Mr Pukšič cited a series of data - separate industries that have weight in Maribor. And in general, I think we talk most about this decentralisation when we mention the name Maribor. If we follow this logic, of course, the question is why we do not have the seat of a national tourism organisation somewhere on the Coast. Why don't we have a head office for gambling control in Gorica? And not in the end, of course, I myself wonder why there were no more ministers from northeastern Slovenia in the Bajuk government. But I don't think this is the right way. Look, in Ljubljana and Maribor, he lives ca. 20% of the Slovenian population. 80% of the Slovenian population lives outside these two cities. In Maribor alone, there is a good 5% or 6% of the Slovenian population. And there can be no debate on decentralisation about how much Maribor will exhaust the function of Ljubljana. Centralisation began very early and already, in my opinion, with the adoption of the Constitution. At the time, Demos was a government coalition. In Article 143, the Constitution enshrined one state on which we cannot reach the provinces and, as a result, transfer of functions to a lower regional level. This was followed by a number of laws: from the Law on Community Financing, on public spending to a number of other sectoral laws that have led all in a row to centralisation, even after the transfer of the powers of the Law on Administration and so on. This has been promoted by this Parliament as well as by the government. But there can be no debate on decentralisation of the debate on what we will transfer to Maribor and what we will not have in Ljubljana. There have been many of these attempts: from the transfer of the Ministry of Tourism and the small economy - when I myself wondered why, we saw that it failed - the mail and the DARS to Celje and so on. And no such project has succeeded. I therefore suggest, gentlemen of the opposition, that you decide as soon as possible what you will do with the constitutional changes. The Government has already proposed adjustments to Article 143,
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u89	the subject matter of the debate [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u90	A group of Members with the first signed Maximilian Lavrinac coming from the LDS proposed deletions. [[...]] I propose that we decide as soon as possible and at the necessary speed and later also agree together on what we will move to the lower levels and move as much as possible to the lower levels.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u91	There was some explanation on the one hand and on the other, but apparently not enough, because I have some applications for replicas. Centralisation is an important problem, but it is not the subject of today's debate unless someone mentions the minister's responsibility, mag. The digger, for her. Otherwise, I'll have to stop this discussion. He's got the word "magic" first. Visjak, behind him, colleague Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u92	Yes, thank you very much. In particular, I would like to refer to my colleague Ašić in this sense, because I do not understand his thinking that, although there is a delay in the implementation of the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava, this minister is not responsible, or that there is one regionally very developmental project that stands and no one is responsible or more responsible, but collective responsibility is equal to irresponsibility. So, in interpolation, we have made it clear that this project is under the responsibility of the current Minister responsible for energy, and in particular in connection with this statement concerning holding in Maribor, I can also say: it is clear from the text of the interpolation that, in the event that the holding company is established in Maribor, it would be logical and rational to have the head office of the implementing group of investments in the new power plants on Sava, as close as possible to the site of the construction of these power plants, that is in Posavje. With this, I would like to point out that we have not had this battle in our eyes, Maribor: Ljubljana, but we have had it in particular and in particular we would like to stress that projects need to be carried out rationally and also carefully organised. Therefore, we believe from the debaters' arguments cited above that it is certainly necessary to say that the implementing group for these power plants at the bottom of the Sava is to be organised rationally in Posavje. Now there is a proposal or now a scenario that will be holding or holding in Ljubljana, an implementation group in Maribor, and in Posavje we will remain thieves and shovels. But smart will go somewhere else. And this is a basic appeal and also a call from this interpolation: we stop this centralisation and allow young people, including Posavci or Primors or anyone to get jobs at home. And this will lead Slovenia forward and not the kind of move that goes into the financial lobby to keep it in some concentrated groups within the centres.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The text was requested by colleague Puksic, for an explanation, a replica - on whose account, colleague Puksic? Mr. Tercheon or Mr. Auschwitz? Didn't I notice whose account?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u94	On the implementation of Mr Tercheon [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u96	I want to replicate. [[...]] I wasn't talking about Maribor at all, but I was talking about northeast Slovenia. I did comparative data between the eighth and the second statistical region. I was talking about Podrav and Pomure and, of course, I was talking to the data; this is the first time. Secondly, when I said that the Minister was responsible for proposing to the government in contravention of the law and thus violating Articles 2 and 3 of the Harmonised Regional Development Act, I spoke about the data. I've broken down what it is-- the one previously thought hydroholding, and I've broken down what this broader, larger holding company is. There's 80% hydropower in this big holding company, and I said by percentage. Secondly, Mr Terchoon, if it were to continue in this direction, it was nothing, but the light was already on. The Ministry of Tourism, although I am deeply convinced that there should be another ministry in Maribor, not only for tourism, but if it were to go in this direction, then we would go in the same direction as Switzerland - the government in Bern, the supreme court in Lusana, the exchange in Zurich. We are going through the Ljubljana-Bucharest-Budapest-Beograd system. Here, that's the Slovenian way of running things.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. I give my word to my colleague. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The only one in the Hall is a colleague of Pece who wants to replicate his colleague Terchono - right? Please, Comrade Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Indeed, I was struck by the implementation of Mr Terchoon, who mentioned the city of Maribor several times in his declarant statement as something shameful. You know, Mr Terchoon, I believe that each Member has his own view of the development of this country. In the Slovenian National Party, our view is about equal development and not what is happening today in Slovenia and what you regret, the Liberal Democracy within its Members and within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a power transfer to the center of the Republic of Slovenia. The story of the abandonment of the city of Maribor is to the basic point which led to the interpretation of the principles of Mr Kopač. It was designed by Mr Kopač when he did not wish or could not, in whatever way we explain, understand the importance of individual economic operators, who would also be stationed elsewhere in Slovenia. And this is not a story that only happens between the city of Maribor and the city of Ljubljana, it is a story that takes place between the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not want or can not understand that Slovenia is more than just the capital. I do not want anyone to misinterpret that we are in the Slovenian National Party against the development of the city of Ljubljana, but let us be for equitable development. Let's help people everywhere in Slovenia, offer employment opportunities and everything that comes with economic development, including another city. Mr. Targeton, I'd like to know how you'd behave if you were from your country - I think you're coming. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u99	Attention to the subject of discussion, colleague Peca, also for you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u100	Excuse me! I think you are very unfair when you talk about matters of relation to Maribor and even more unfairly, when you justify the actions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Mr Kopač in connection with the electric holding company.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. He also asked his colleague Kangler for a replica. Comrade Tarchoon, do you request an explanation? Later, after my colleague Kangler. You first, Comrade Kangler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you. I would like to refer to my fellow Member, Terchoon, in view of the fact that we speak a lot in the National Assembly on Centralism. But Comrade Terchon, let me - or let me: this is no longer about the city of Maribor and this is not about Ljubljana. It is important, Comrade Terčon, that we have the Institute for Statistics of the Republic of Slovenia, which maintains consistently some data that indicate that Slovenia has started to develop unevenly regionally. Whether to look at unemployment or to look at any indicators. Comrade Targeton! It is important that political power, economic power, capital power and economic power have become too concentrated in one place. Too much in one place, so today we can also buy the most expensive apartments in Europe in the middle of Ljubljana. Just because she's too focused here. It is said that there is too much concentrated policy, economic, capital and economic power. And Comrade Terchon, if you recall, two or three months ago I gave you a list of all government appointments in this coalition, in this government. There were over 1,000 or 1,100. Personally and some of my coalition friends haven't listed them from northeast Styria, Prekmurje and Koroška, because we know people who have been recruited or appointed to any function, 50. We haven't listed 50 out of 1100! You've done a good look at that list, and tell me, how many experts or political officials from Primorska have you listed on that list? Do not these people who come from either Gorenjska, Dolenjska, Primorska, or Styria, or Prekmurje have equal opportunities, either political, professional, or economic, or economic. That's the problem. You must be aware, however, that Maribor is the second largest city in Slovenia and the first place, I hope to say that it has suffered and is in the first place since the economic and economic crisis, and the third place on the ranking, as regards unemployment. The first place is Ruše; the second is the congregation of Pesnica; it is called the Dravskadolina. And this is no longer about Maribor and this is no longer about Ljubljana. This is a concept, a political will, which, of course, bears the responsibility of the largest party, is known, but we begin decentralisation in this country in the way we want it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u103	My friend Kangler [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u104	And that's important. As long as there is no political will, there will be no decentralisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u105	Comrade Kangler! This discussion, as it is said, is legitimate for this National Assembly, but not for this item on the agenda. It is only possible if it relates to the responsibility of Minister Kopač. And, like you, I'm gonna break up with everyone else if we don't stick to it. Comrade Terchón wanted an explanation and a colleague of Rupar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u106	Mr. President! At the outset, I must say that a replica is an objection if it is quoted by speakers as incorrect or incorrect data or facts. So I hope you won't interrupt me. So, I have to say where you've been replicating me, I have a feeling that you haven't listened to me at all. At first, I realized that centralization in this country is too large. We can also say that this is no longer the case. Therefore, discussions are also becoming more intense and tense when we talk about centralisation and decentralisation. But I said you chose the wrong way. Mr. Pukšič, who I replicated to him, began with the seat of the holding company, which I replicated, in Maribor. And I said that there was already a ministry for small economy and tourism in Maribor; today it is gone, even though I hear that they have a house up there and that they have some people up there that I don't know what they're doing. That's how these stories end. I cautioned that a different approach should be made to this matter. I am aware that the difference between the most developed and the least developed is great, that the scope of the circulation of public finances is much greater in Ljubljana than it was during Yugoslavia, as I said before. However, in the end, I also pointed out that changes to the Constitution should be initiated and I hope that you will support these constitutional changes. And I have pointed out who has already tabled these changes, from the government and from the group of Members with the first-signed Maximilian Lavrinci. In the current debates for amendment to Article 143 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u107	Subject matter of discussion, warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u108	But I have heard from your clients that you are not in favour of the fact that the Constitution is really good and that we need to consider what we will change, and that we will change only the most urgent, or that you have not declared yourself. [[...]] And then there will be a time for this change, gentlemen, that's what I've warned you about.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u109	Here we go in line, insisting that replicas are short, that clarification, non-conclusion are not extensive and that they stick to the subject matter. My friend Rupar first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm replicating Mr. Kangler. Mr. Kangler, you can interpret your views, you can defend them, but I warn you that you are one man in an ensemble and you are far too few. It's not just the biggest client, LDS - it's not your fault. It's your fault, too, because you're their partner. And if the People's Party had this power that you have, then it wouldn't be, today Maribor might have his own holding company or would have had a holding company and maybe it would have been otherwise developed like that, Styria might have been something more than that, farmers might have been more satisfied than they were. Once again, however, it is necessary to have a back, a spine, which requires pride. One man is too small.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. A colleague of Moge's, a colleague of Kebrich, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm gonna drop some numbers on you. I mean, Maribor wouldn't get anything with it if we got a holding company there, but when the holding company went to Ljubljana, Maribor lost a lot. You all know and well know that the backbone of industry in Titus Yugoslavia was also based on Tam, on Metal, on Hydromontage, what they were saying all over the world, and nine other such companies could count on you, but none of them are alive anymore. Now, ladies and gentlemen, listen up. It's not the minister's fault, but there's something else I was going to say in the end. Now there is a situation, in last year's year he accepted these things - here are data from 2000 by the amount of revenue created in 2000 – the largest companies in Slovenia. Prič, Petrol Ljubljana, business Mercator Ljubljana, Revoz Novo mesto, Gorenje Velenje, Istria Benz Koper, Elektro Slovenije Ljubljana, Telekom Slovenije Ljubljana, Merkur Kranj, OMV Istria Benz Koper, Krka Novo mesto, Avtocommerce Ljubljana, Slovenske železnice Ljubljana, SCT Ljubljana, Immol Slovenska Bistrica, Prevenj Gradec, Mobil Ljubljana, Talum Kidričeva, Sava Tires Ljubljana, Elektro Ljubljana, Geoplin Ljubljana, Sava Kranj, Thermoelectrica Šostanj, Šostanj, Iskra Telekom Kranj, Živala Kranj, Mercator Ptuj, Primorje Ajdovščina, Acroni Jesenice, Kemofarmation Ljubljana, Spar Ljubljana, Intereuropa, tobacco grostina Union Ljubljana, Pivovarna Kranj, Nuklaarna power plant Krško, Krško, Krško, Veletrgovska, Veletrgovska, Velegovska company Doměšje can still see you, but also. So it was a pure desert in Maribor. We are going to the European Union, the border will move and what we had in Maribor that we could turn to it - you know what economic potential means, ladies and gentlemen, but it's in the next. I'll read to you, maybe the first ten capital companies in 2001, that's when this thing started, after the capital at the end of 2000. In the first place of Drava power plant Maribor, public company - 198 billion, on the second Telekom Slovenije - 172 billion; then there are: Elektro Slovenije - 88, Sava power plants - 85, Elektro Ljubljana - 79 and so on. Do you now think how we as Members of Parliament, who come from this environment, feel? When the Maribor bank sells - no, I'm not looking at you, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u113	Subject matter [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u114	'Cause I can look at this side, too. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u115	Subject matter of discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u116	A more pleasant view. [[...]] Yes, when the Maribor bank sells when this thing is, this thing, now only the basis for saving investments with a seat goes somewhere else and this has evolved - and that is why, Comrade Terchon, you must understand that what we have promised our constituents, that we will also try to achieve for their interests here in the National Assembly. And I think it's more than necessary that the time has come [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] about decentralisation and that we will all have to work together to avoid that northern border, as it always was, that we had to keep up Slomsk, but we could have Maister up, and we had to have whatever the Pohorski Battalion you want, but we had to have Pecre and everything else. [[...]] And such a policy of this part of Slovenia, including poor Prekmurje and others, leads nowhere. And here I'd like to ask you for some help. And as for not talking in three days, if anyone wants, I have here four volumes of these materials, such that at least those who decide on this - before my friend Tone Partlič read the Maribor Declaration that I [[...]] [[Incomprehensible, talking through each other]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u117	Warning on the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u118	We should act a little differently when such large capital movements are taking place in the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] I may have spoken as an opposition member and the opposition there laughs at me completely, but it is a matter of all Slovenia. And to me, first of all, forgive my colleagues and colleagues, the welfare of the people and then only the client, unlike some others. And I will, in my conscience, decide on this vote. Not after what some boss told me or what some local committee asked me to do here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Comrade Moge. Comrade Kebrich, you too [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I repeat to Mr Tarchoon for first and second implementation. We do not agree, Members, simply to say first, what you have done or what the government has done, specifically Mr Minister also, what has been given to Maribor, and then say "everything that has been given to Maribor has sucked". We don't take that argument of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u121	My friend Puksic. You have the word for the replica. Who? Comrade Pukšič, who are you going to replicate? [[A voice from behind.]] Could you please join us?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u122	One part of Mr. Mohet. Mr. Tarchoon! No way is the solution to this terrible centralization of constitutional change. No way! In fact, this was the solution at the time of the establishment of local self-government in 1994, it was a solution for a wide range of entrepreneurs, for a wide range of municipal infrastructures, for a wide range of educational facilities, health care, social services and so on. What you think is not true at all. On 24 August, when we called a press conference, when we asked the Prime Minister to accept a delegation of Members, Mayors, Mastersmen and so on, nothing happened! Mr. Mogue! Your request for help - I hope she'll be heard. It can only be heard by voters in this area so that they will never again give the liberals so many votes; for if they are, then they know where the matter is going.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u123	This is not the subject of debate. I'm warning you. I think we're mature enough to control passions in the debate. I think it is right that the discussion is controversial, but it must stick to the subject of discussion, otherwise I will be forced to take the floor. My friend Kremjar has the floor, followed by his colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We're totally down, but not for the first time and probably not for the last time today. However, it is not right to use interpretation against the minister in order to try to represent certain things that do not, of course, hold, so I am also a little out of this basic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u125	Not too much of a fellow Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u126	Not much. Very little. I ask you kindly not to simplify things so that we do not simplify in any way - namely, I am replicating to my colleague Terchoon, who, of course, always when someone mentions the problems that Maribor and Styria are in, he sees in this conspiracy against someone else. There's no conspiracy, Comrade Terchon. It's a problem. These problems need to be discussed and problems are also on the segment that we are talking about in connection with Minister Kopač, and I think we need to talk about them, not in general and not just about Maribor. As for your statement that there is a "some byte" in Maribor, where someone is doing something that you don't know what he's doing, you could quietly figure out, just call, there's a department, part of the Ministry of Economy run by Dr. Tea Petrin well, and of course they do very useful things for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. My friend Kelemin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate Mr. Moget at some point. In fact, he talked about the fact that, say, the Drava power plant Maribor produces 198 billion revenue per year. Indeed, I highly respect the Maribor power plants, because in fact in the Slovenian electricity industry they produce the most expensive energy, after 2.6 SIT - you can imagine - let's say, Trbovlje something over 10, Šostanjaj or not, Trbovlje, or Šostanjanje something over 10, while I do the thermoelectric power plant in Trbovje, I think almost 18 SIT for a kilowatt hour. If you, the Mariborians, were to demand at least 3.5 SIT per kilohour in time for all these years, you would create huge billions of money for reproduction, with which you could significantly accelerate your regional development and also open up a lot of jobs. But you've landed because you've always been, somehow, even in the National Assembly, and always in a subordinate position, and so on, almost a slave to this centralism. That is why I absolutely support, as the gentleman also said, that Maribor deserves autonomy, as soon as possible, and with its own resources, with its own resources - at least 300 billion of its own income must have in order to pariate this centralism that is being created in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, you're the last person on my list to report to the replicas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Of course, I don't think it's necessary for my colleague Mohet to be assured that we will always stand on the sidelines of Maribor staying an important, university, cultural and industrial city. It is true that this Slovenian Menchester in these years - do not laugh, that the name Maribor was officially because the textile industry was so developed, sometimes - that this city fell considerably. And that even in all these years the Drnovsk government has not been heard to listen to this city. For this reason, both Slomšek and Maister certainly turn in their graves when they see what is happening in this city, how the machete relationship of the present power is dedicated to our city. But even today the fate of Slovenia is defended in Maribor [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u131	We are talking about the responsibility of Minister Kopač, and I am warning you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u132	Yeah. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u133	I've warned everyone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u134	answer [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u135	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u136	I answer who's willing to help who isn't. Even today the fate of Slovenia is defended in this city. My colleague Moze mentioned the sale of the bank of Maribor. You know that many people, many businesses, have taken credit in other countries because of severe economic hardship. And that there are mortgages on this property. And it's extremely important how it sells itself, how this bank will own itself. But I think Comrade Terchon said something very sinister that his coalition partners, I didn't hear, they reacted so violently. And I would tell my colleague Terčon, although he is not here, that it may happen that the fate of his end of Slovenia will also be sold in Maribor. It's also a bitter bank. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u137	Comrade Jerovšek, this may be important, but it is not the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u138	It's important.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u139	But it's not the subject of this debate, even though it's important. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u140	Through the policy developed at this time, there is no understanding for the needs of these parts of Slovenia, not in the Western, not in the Southern, and not in the Eastern. This is the problem of this complete centralisation, which is currently synonymous with this perfect centralisation, since the summer, Minister Kopač - sorry, yes. And, Mr. Terchoon, you can fate your Namreč, you know, if it comes into some other hands of the bitter bank, then it's also - sometimes they've conquered something with denunciation and today it's another way. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u141	Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Believe that everyone who holds the meeting is very uncomfortable to intervene in the debate, but if he wants the discussion to stick to the subject and the National Assembly to discuss in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Petty Officer now has the floor to discuss, followed by his colleague Tanko. Eight other panellists have been reported. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. I will try to be brief because we have already heard many arguments in support of the interpretation. I would like to focus on the statement made by the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister when he told Mr Copac in defence that he was a diligent minister, that he was working hard and making mistakes. He's making mistakes. I believe that what he did was violations of the laws and violations of the covenant he signed as minister were not mistakes. A mistake is something that may be unwitting, which is like an oversight, and which is done in good faith, but because of different circumstances, a mistake has occurred. So, there was no qualification for error in this case, especially if we look at some cases. I will show one example in which, in fact, it was an intentional, deliberate and deliberate act, a violation of the rules. In fact, the argument that we should put an interpellation against the government is absent, because the Minister is responsible for certain procedures, signatures. I said, specifically, I'm going to touch the warehouse or procedures for animal waste, signing contracts with Koto. The government has adopted a decision on how to resolve this matter and has imposed on individual ministries, two ministries, what they need to prepare. The Ministry of Environment and Space has drawn up a contract to which, in accordance with the Government's decision, the Ministry of Finance has made a comment. Specifically, the Ministry of Finance opposes the conclusion of a contract on the heat treatment of animal waste and so on - not to mention. The proposal for a contract shall in no way take into account the comments made by the Ministry of Finance in the coordination process. These comments are as follows. This means that the Ministry of Finance has already warned Mr Kopač that what he is doing is not in accordance with the rules. Nor is it in line with what Mr Brejc said earlier about how the Minister should work: in the interests of public finances, properly. The contract does not show the subject matter of the contract whether it is a matter of purchasing material and so on. After that, the price disputed for the subject matter of the contract is determined on the basis of a calculation containing the following unacceptable elements. In particular, the one who prepared this was a mag. Lucia Gregorič, State Undersecretary of State, apparently based this on executive, professional grounds. Here are various services and the extent or price of this. These elements are price structure - continues to be signed by Minister Rop, representing 53% of the costs, which means that in the short term the price should be greater than 19.42 tolars per kilogram of waste and not 41.50. Indeed, this price then appears also in the contract following those acts committed by the Government. This decision, or the opinion of Mr Ropa, also refers to transport services, where it challenges the proposals of Minister Kopač. The payment deadlines for violations of the Public Finance Act, where it is specifically warned by the Minister in the same government, should not be signed by contracts which are inconsistent and constitute a breach of the Public Finance Act. Still, he signed it. After all, he softened some sentences, but in the end he also left: "eight days". It is clear from this case that what Mr Kopač and Mr Drnovšek said was not a mistake. It was a deliberate, deliberate treatment. Mr Kopač then stated that the price for processing these animal wastes is within the price of European countries. Mr. Digger! What you offered in explanation is not an argument that this is within the framework. You have concluded a contract that goes through these frameworks. And given that the costs of our processing are still lower, the entrance costs, lower costs, would be more expected from a good host or one who is also responsible for public finances to conclude a more favourable contract. At least in the context of European prices; at least in the framework and not higher. Nor is it a mistake to call or say that you will not enforce the law. Mr Minister, if you had been convicted of this, you could have demented it, or you could have distanced yourself from this statement, that it simply escaped you and apologized for it. And then I would understand that, and our citizens would also qualify it as a mistake: as if you had said something before you thought it over. But you didn't deny it at the time. It is also an example of your building of a house - which I consider to be within this interpolation, but for one additional thing - it is not a matter of error. It would be a mistake for you to do so reluctantly to overlook and in good faith. There aren't all these criteria for error. This, of course, puts your credibility ahead of the citizens' test. Citizens have had the opportunity to hear these arguments and they will, above all, be able to judge on this basis. Of course, citizens will also judge our behaviour. Also our vote in Parliament. In fact, fellow Members, who will vote against the interpretation, you will communicate something with this. That an appeal against law enforcement by a minister, any one, is an appropriate act. Acceptable action. That the conclusion for a country of manifestly harmful contracts is an acceptable act. And if you do that, you're not afraid to answer to the National Assembly. Just like the rest of the stuff. Our decision will, of course, be political because we are a political body. But we're relying on expert findings. The expert findings he made, which have even been made by your fellow ministers or competent professional institutions. Actually, we're relying on that. We don't just rely on our thinking. I'd like to give you another fact. The obvious, Mr Minister, in particular in the context of Mr Drnovšek's words of appreciation to you that you are industrious. People, citizens and economists would expect your diligence in another area, namely the award of a concession for Juliana. The procedure was annulled by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for reasons of irregularity. To date, the Ministry has not continued the procedure for awarding concessions under the procedure provided for by the Constitutional Court. This is also one of the main reasons for the company’s damages, with a compensation amount of around 25 billion dollars. And that's what I'm adding to the end. I rely on what the professional findings of the competent institutions were. On this basis, of course, I will also support interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much. For easier orientation: behind colleagues Tank will receive the word of colleagues Pohorec, Rokavec, Kremjar, Moge, Sok, Kangler and also colleague Barovic as the last on the list. First of all, Comrade Tanka, behind him is Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. In my debate, I will limit myself to three content sets from interpretation. First of all, I will touch and give my views and opinions in the first paragraph of the interpretation concerning the implementation of the law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, hailstorms, landslides and sealides in 2000 and the Minister's statement on the State's ability and obligation to provide the necessary financial resources to the affected. The Minister's statement that it is unrealistic for the Government to fully ensure and fulfil the obligations imposed by this law is a typical example of how some, including ministers, represent democracy and the division of power, how they interpret the importance and role and the implementation of laws and legal obligations, as well as how they explain their role in the administration of the state. From the interpretation and the answer to it, we can find that they explain it very freely, very in the afternoon. Minister Kopač has changed the obligation of law, whose implementation is indisputable and necessary, into a promise of a law that we realize when it is possible. Promises are already considered to be more a matter of the future than of the present and are fulfilled when an opportunity is offered. You can never do that. The laws adopted by Parliament are therefore not laws that make obligations, but are more fairy tales that make promises to calm down and alleviate current problems and give rise to unrealistic expectations of beneficiaries. The executive is the one who decides who will fulfill his expectations, who will be given the stick, and who will be the root. If it suits the Minister, the law will be enforced if it does not suit him, he will not be. And no problem, because at the moment there is almost no instrument to force him to act legally and responsibly. The government is a strong, parliamentary majority extremely strong, very relenting and also very tolerant. Interpellation seems to be the only means of forcing ministers to enforce the law. It is only its forecast that, in the wake of the farmer's violent reaction and media attention, only funds were found on the state budget lines to implement this law and that the consequences of the Minister's very thoughtful statement were mitigated. The Minister's response to interpellation, as well as the recognition that the past natural disasters, according to past laws, had had a budget budget of up to 10 billion tolls to address these disasters, were highly outstanding. This points to the ratio of state budget preparers and planners to the laws adopted, as well as to those affected, and confirms that the Minister has systematically and knowingly violated certain laws when preparing the budget. Mr Kopač, as Minister of Environment and Space, and as the custodian of this unfortunate cash register to help those affected by natural disasters, has not done enough, has not foreseen and has not proposed sufficient resources in the budget to ensure the necessary implementation of intervention laws. His efforts to ensure the necessary level of funds for these purposes are unknown to us, are even less known to the public, and are felt by farmers, residents of Soča and other endangered areas. The fact is that all intervention laws or in fact the whole element refers to an already sparsely populated and demographicly threatened area. Rural rights already have extremely serious problems in normal situations, as they are generally unable to provide even approximately sufficient and appropriate conditions for life and development. Moreover, State aid is more "mild thirsty" and is not sufficient, so most young people go to more urban areas. However, if the country fails to address the consequences of natural disasters, the migration of the affected and dissatisfied population is further triggered and the rural collapse is inevitable. The non-implementation of these intervention laws means that the Ministry of the Environment and Space has conscientiously waived aid to the countryside, that the preservation of the cultural landscape has been abandoned and that the strategy for the harmonious development of Slovenia has been abandoned. In the second point, I would like to say something about the contract and the relationship with Koto. I think that it is quite right for the applicants to find that the Minister has spoken with Kota completely unprepared, without the necessary or knowledge of the subject matter to be negotiated. He acknowledged very clearly and unequivocally that he did not know the underlying relations and was forced to believe in Koto. Unfortunately, he did not invite the relevant institutions or experts to negotiate, which would undoubtedly contribute to the signing of a more favourable treaty for the country than it was concluded. For the country, it is also an unfavorable recognition by the minister that the partner in the talks and in the talks won him a commercial victory in the negotiations. He also acknowledged in his reply that Koto had relatively simply exercised his economic interest. The costor or price list is based on the business interest of the company in question, and the Ministry has only taken over and signed an agreement or contract. We also pointed out in the interpretation that the signature of the contract, in the contract for the heat treatment of animal waste, for the temporary storage prior to incineration, of 9.1.2001, was opposed by both the Ministry of Finance and the veterinary administration, as shown in the accompanying material. It was clearly pointed out that the subject matter of the contract is not visible to me nor is there a legal basis for concluding the contract. But the contract was still concluded. It is clear from the Minister's reply that he had no opportunity in the negotiation process to protect the interests of the State, since he negotiated without the necessary knowledge and without the participation of the profession. However, the profession has responded most strongly to the Minister's procedures and actions. Therefore, it is not likely that the Minister’s claim that the state and users, namely citizens, were not harmed because not all options were used in the negotiations. More. Despite the objections of the profession, the contract was signed at unchanged prices, which is at Koto's prices, and we can rightly claim that there are too many obligations, not only for the state budget, but also for farmers, consumers and slaughterhouses. Of course, the financial burden at its final stage falls on taxpayers. Allow me to touch the 5th point of interpolation a little bit, this is the area of exploitation of natural raw materials, or of domestic sand diggers, or of mines. On the basis of Article 105 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Mining Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia issued a regulation on the granting of mining rights to holders of exploration permits or for the acquisition of mineral raw materials and granted them mining rights. In Article 3 of this Regulation, the Government should conclude concession contracts with these legal and natural persons within six months of its entry into force, which is until 15 May 2001. If concession contracts are not concluded by that date, the mining right shall cease. That's how the regulation lays down. However, the Government of these Treaties has not reached a firm conclusion by that date. She didn't have them until the end of 2001. I understand that the Minister had organisational difficulties in redistributing powers and tasks on the basis of the Government Act and perhaps other laws, but he had sufficient time and opportunity to publish a new regulation with an extended deadline or to sign concession contracts and concession arrangements. The Minister did not act in time. Neither a new regulation has been published nor the contract has been signed. The Minister states in his reply that concession contracts were offered for signature to all mining rights holders only at the end of 2001. On the basis of the provisions of the Regulation, the exploitation of mines should be discontinued from 15.5.2001. But that didn't happen. The pumping continued, even though there was no legal basis. This illegal situation lasted at least seven months or until the end of 2001. Minister Kopač's reply does not hold back that the undeclared contracts do not affect the start of the obligations of concession fees. The Regulation provides in Article 3 that legal or natural persons referred to in the preceding Article must conclude a concession agreement with the Government within six months of the application of this Regulation. Otherwise, their right to explore or exploit mineral raw materials will cease. In a concrete statement, the Minister does not have the essence and does not focus on the payment of concessions, to which the Minister is actually referring in his reply, but on the seven-month illegal extraction of mines. However, I would like to draw attention to another area. The Ministry of Environment and Space has no clear idea of how to address the problem of natural or elementary accidents: either by system law or by individual intervention laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u147	The subject of the interpretation, please. Pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u148	On 30.6.2001, the law on the elimination of the effects of the beach in the municipality of Bovec and the larger beaches in the Republic of Slovenia expired after 15 October 2000. After that time, the state or government had a system law in other readings. At the same time, she proposed a new intervention law, and the system law wanted to return to the first reading or even take it out of the procedure. The government has also submitted to the National Assembly a report on the implementation of the law on remedying consequences, which has not yet been addressed. However, the report states that, following that above law, which expired on 15 and 30.6., all the tasks envisaged have been carried out and that there is no need to provide any additional funds for intervention works. In short, the work should be completed and done in a qualitative manner. However, it shows that quality is not only so good, since the government, in explaining the new intervention law, states that the threat of further crawling is not diminished today. Especially is there a six - or seven - month wait to prepare, say, a new intervention law to remedy the consequences of past, previous, and underworked works. The government, in particular Minister Kopač, has always been aware of the problem of regulating the beaches, but has allowed more than half a year's legal hole to be created here. For the people, for the people affected by the accident, who cannot help themselves, they must also be in pain. Dear colleagues! I believe that the violations of the Law of Minister Kopač are sufficient to support the interpretation. Even if I use his statement to prevent short- and long-term damage to the Resor and Slovenia, and also to stop underestimating and distinguishing citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Until the Minister of Magi's performance. The digger is still seven speakers. First, Comrade Pohorec, behind him is Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary and co-workers! I must say that it is more difficult to discuss, because everything I am prepared to say has already been said, so by the interpolation investors, and it does not indicate to repeat all of this, both by those who are just defending the Minister and his work, his actions, which are manifest to him, including the Prime Minister. That's why I'm gonna be a little shorter. When I drove to Ljubljana today, I have already learned at several radio stations the result of this interpolation – the interpolation will not succeed, not more than 30 Members, 46 votes will not be collected and so on. We have been able to hear this from the media today and, therefore, we could finally conclude the debate and go to the vote. However, a few brief words from my point of view, particularly from the point of view that concerns the environment in which I live and which I come from, from which even the initiative for interpretation at the final stage may have emerged. This is a problem that, in my opinion, I do not see in the work and responsibility of Minister Kopač, but the problem that exists for a long time in the Republic of Slovenia, all from its independence - the uneven, incompatible development of Slovenia, which has now suffered the greatest loss of industrial potential, jobs, economic power, purchasing power and so on through this possible holding in Maribor as well as in Maribor. This environment is therefore embedded in a different social situation, such as other areas of the Republic of Slovenia. This is, in my opinion, the core of the problem and I consider this interpretation to be a serious warning to the government, to the Prime Minister, to all ministers, not only to Mr Kopač, but also to us when we discuss those things that await us through the multitude of agenda items that we need to carry out as soon as possible in order to move things forward - including regional development, the economic development strategy and so on and so forth. What we are about to do, and we may not need to waste so much time on this issue. The point of the problem is this. I was also addressed to the mayors by letters addressed to me on behalf of these 40,000 signatories, people who feel some anger, some social distress, and in this way, through signatures, expressed this dissatisfaction, this state of theirs where they live. And it's not just Maribor, it's also a wider environment. This is how I understand this matter, and I want to present it as well as the call, the appeal, let us start to do differently and start to change this Slovenia, to make it, as it was designed, fair, socially secure to all citizens and economically strong in all areas and in all parts of its territory, open and what we have written in our documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u151	Comrade Pohorec [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u152	I do not think that the origin of all this evil is 2001 and Minister Kopač and the things that are here. The source, in my view, has been from the beginning and since the setting up of many system arrangements. As a result of this, industry’s decline in some areas, job losses and all that. Now we're all someone's fault, and we're trying to stop him. This way, I personally disagree. I could also discuss the cost of this interpolation, so that some schools, kindergartens, and the like could be repaired with this money, because a lot of talk has already been said about it. But it's the price of democracy and the price of democracy is that. I won't say anything again because it's been said so before me. All I'd say is that, I'll make my decision on my conscience, without any pressure from anyone in the coalition, anyone from the party and anyone from my parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Rokavac, my colleague Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr. Secretary! I have to admit, I'm in a dilemma with this interpretation about the content of the interpolation. On the other hand, I think it is quite appropriate for the National Assembly today to discuss these key issues, which are likely to have stimulated only interpretation and today's debate. In my debate, I will limit myself to the two issues that have already been dealt with today, perhaps everything has already been said, but probably not everything. This is point 1 of the interpolation, which refers to the Minister's statement on implementation and the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, hailstorms, landslides and sea-slides in 2000. This statement by the Minister may have been thoughtless, but it has triggered, if we are completely exposed, actually violent reactions and has also triggered different reflections as to what such a statement means. But I don't think such a statement was made by accident. It was found that the Bajuk government did not implement the law in 2000 and that not all funds were provided in 2001 either, so that, in fact, all the laws that were subject to the so-called budgetary reserve to remedy the fundamental consequences could be implemented. And I'm asking myself the following question. The State Assembly of the Ministry of State was not warned when adopting the budget that the Ministry of State would not be able to carry out all the legal obligations with regard to the so-called elementary accidents. And secondly, it is normal for each law adopted by the National Assembly to have its own bill. And here I think that was a key mistake the ministry and the minister didn't make. We know that there have been excruciating debates on the Infrastructure and Environment Committee and also on the Agriculture Committee, as well as on several occasions, on parliamentary issues. The answers were not clear by the competent ministry, they avoided the truth in fact, they avoided saying that there were no funds to the full. I think we need to learn from this case the following. That it is necessary to inform the national assembly and the public in due time of problems that arise and then resolve problems. If there were no such pressure from affected farmers in 2001, and even if there had been no catastrophic drought in 2001, this statement would probably be realistic. But this unfavourable or new disadvantage, which has just occurred in agriculture, has led to the fact that it has actually been necessary to provide adequate resources to facilitate the re-discharge of production in some way at least in some way. The second question is, of course, the question of the so-called decentralised development of Slovenia or the establishment and formation of a hydroelectric holding company. Here too, I think it was the decision of the competent minister, and then in the final stage of the government, too quickly. It is never so important that the arguments are, if the arguments are against not taking time for a substantial consideration. I am convinced that this early decision has further fueled the issue and thinking of citizens that this country is increasingly centralised. Secondly, it also contributed to the fact that outside the capital people began to wonder whether they were actually second-raters. In particular, at the statement of the Minister, which stated that only Ljubljana has the appropriate professional potential for the normal functioning of the hydroelectric holding company. From history, I know, for example, the case of neighbouring Italy, how dangerous a precedent can be when a country or a citizen starts to wonder who is in a priority position and who is left behind or which region is neglected, which region is in a privileged position. We know these stories, and I think that if these issues start to appear more often, in fact, the red light and the signal to power can actually have to find out that something is wrong. I am convinced that at least these two cases, which I have cited, are probably still an important signal for the current authorities. Even in the light of the events in Argentina, that power must never underestimate its people. If I conclude, I fear that this interpretation, at the final stage and then also the outcome, which is already well known, will actually be used for something else, so that the competent ministry can actually implement its extremely liberal starting point with regard to the new spatial legislation. I am convinced that the abolition of the payment of the change in the destination of agricultural land is one of those matters that might actually be asked whether we want to further reduce the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture. I'm saying this is the right way in this direction. It's a road this way. If you allow relaxation, especially on the most quality agricultural land, without a prior fuse, then that means that all conditions, ensuring greater competitiveness, have already been reduced. And the second question is whether this relaxation or a more liberal attitude will help to further increase the spread of construction in Slovenia, which, of course, will further detract our cultural landscape. I am convinced that it is still an important issue of agricultural land protection, that this is a key national interest of the Republic of Slovenia. And it will be bad if the outcome of the interpolation helps to overwhelm this key national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Comrade Kremjar, you have the floor. And after you, my colleague Moge will get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Interpellation, at least in my opinion, is a very serious matter. It should be, and it is, an institute, one of the most rigorous institutes in Parliament, but in this case, I do not think it has the right foundation. Interpellation, as it is written, speaks something and the debates and justifications of this interpretation speak otherwise. Interpellation is for a minister to drop out. However, the explanations given by the interpellation candidates in these two days speak of their disagreement with the Minister's decisions and their failure to do otherwise. This is a major reason for the Minister and Prime Minister's reflection, but not for the suspension in Parliament. According to me, in this interpretation, which is written in the introduction very hard, because of the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the laws and regulations of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Mag. Janez Kopač clears the minister's functions and so on and so forth; it says so. In this part, in the interpretation, there is, of course, little or nothing in the struggle and very little evidence of what would be the subject of this violation of the Constitution, of the law and of the law. Of course that's not it. Other things are also discussed in the justifications of the interpellation candidates. There is talk of what Minister Kopač has said, of how he has made his decision, of what other work might have affected that Minister Kopač thinks he is doing differently than the others think he is doing, and of course they do not agree with it and that they would have done differently. And now, because I am going to vote for this interpretation myself, the logical question is, how do I think I am going to vote for this interpretation? This is precisely why I will vote in favour of the interpretation because I think Minister Kopach needs to be sent a very harsh and rigorous message. And I am sending this message to Minister Kopach through the Interpelling Institute because it seems to me that this is the most rigorous way to send a message that we can send. Of course it's also a question of why. Because I believe that it is under one of the areas - and I will limit myself to one small area, but the area that is easy and is, in my opinion, very painful - that one of these areas is energy, it is completely unregulated, that there is no strategy that is not regulated in such a way that it is not the right concept and, of course, that the views on the regulation of this area of energy change from day to day. This is also related to holding, holding and other matters. We had at least five different ideas here in six months. At first, it was the idea of hydro holding. This was also addressed to 54 Members' signatures. Then it was, no more hydro hosting ideas, the idea of a big holding company. Then it was neither an idea nor a reality with its seat in Ljubljana, and with all the protests and demands that came mainly from Maribor and this end of Styria, as well as from other ends. Then came a promise to establish a joint company, a joint venture of Drava power plant, the Sava power plant, which is scheduled to operate by the new year. Three days after that declaration, he was a demanti v.d. the director of the holding company to consider this. And it appears that his thinking has been that until the new year and to this day this company has not been established. Then came some material recently that was supposed to go to the government where the proposal is changing. This is not yet in the ordinary procedure, of course, but we are talking about ideas that change the article of the concession law, where the concessionaire is supposed to, in this case, the Sava power plant, could transfer partial or full concession to another person, as it says, with the consent of the candidate and so on. In short, like I'd say, there's a wind blowing, and that's how these ideas change. And that's not good. In this segment, of course, these signals are also subject to the issue, and I could say that this is a question that is not once again the question of Minister Kopač, but that the secretaries of the State are not being intertwined, they are being pursued and dropped. But it's interpelling, ministers. Because all I have said is, of course, a question that the Secretary of State must resolve logically, of course, in the light of the Minister's consent and conduct. And it's not my intention to interfere with the organization of work at the Ministry. I would like to say how this has spoken, how it has been said, and how it is also in the area from which I come as a Member. While fully aware of the function of the Member State, this parliamentary function is not just what we want to be seen as not a localist, that we must not fall and defend what local interests. However, these "local" locals are part of the country's interests. That's where people live. They live not only here in this House, but they live there, they work. And, of course, they're right to have a word. Many of these words can only be made by means of us and by no means otherwise. Or by going to the stand and 40,000 signing a declaration, because I don't even know what that was called. It doesn't matter either. They weren't the people who were breaking up, they weren't the spoilers, they were the people who were doing something out of the trouble. And they were doing it by sending signals. We, Minister Kopač in this case and of course the entire political structure. And also because of these, and not because of those who then boarded this train, politically diverse, I will not list them, because they are not important, but these 40,000 people who were offended and offended, of course, had their motive to do so. Not to be a wreck, not to be an idea like this, but to prove that when they organized the rally, it wasn't a couple of people at that rally because it wasn't meant to be. The aim was to show that they think something is wrong and we are back on the issues of centralisation, decentralisation and so on. Why is it always holding in Maribor? The seat of the holding company in Maribor. I think my friend Partljič once asked himself, "Why not?" And that can be a question. Just as it may be a question of why there, the question may also be why not there. More than one reason is why holding in Maribor is like asking why not. 80 percent, as we have heard many times today, of the financial and other potential of this current holding company is there and will be for some time. According to all possible statements, they are the most qualified to build, financially and so on, these people in the Drava power plants and so on. Which, of course, means there's a lot of logical explanation why the holding company's seat is there. And, of course, those explanations that were actually attracted to the hair are that the minister has to take several times a week or almost every day to the seat of the holding company, but that there are no capable people and so on and so forth. This has already been overrun, and I think it's almost pointless to talk about it. I am talking so much about these 40,000, although I was not among the signatories to this, because of course I have the opportunity here in Parliament to say what I am now saying, and I do not need this to be signed. Of course, those people had no other choice, and that is why they did so. It does not matter, it is not the most important act, but it is important that Maribor was the strongest in the last elections. Now you're going to say I speak cliently, and I want to say something else, in support of this political option. And yet these people then, of course, signed it as they signed it, this matter. This suggests that some pressure has led them to do so. I think there's two parts, one interpretation, and one is the eyewitnesses that I'm also sending to Minister Copacz. It could be different, it could be organised differently, and I think it would be right that it would be otherwise organised, that it would be better for everyone and also, of course, for the Ministry itself and for Minister Kopač. This is a message I convey, not only in my own name, but also in the name of many people. I hope this message falls to fertile ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Before the minister's performance, there are four other colleagues. First, my colleague Moge, my colleague Sok behind him, and I invite Members and Members to come slowly to the Chamber, because there may be a vote behind the Minister's performance. My friend Kangler and Barovich will be the last. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u158	President, thank you very much. What I was about to say was just said, so I give up my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u159	My friend Sok. Comrade Kangler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Since the predecessors have said a lot, I will try to shorten my performance. However, the President would like to warn you earlier to warn the Secretary of State, Mr Golob, not to act arrogantly in this country. At the previous meeting, I have observed it and Mr State Secretary chewed "chigums" at home in front of all Members. Today, when Comrade Kremjar spoke, he was cynically mocking his statements. I think that government representatives in this Chamber must have a respectful attitude towards all Members, regardless of the party. And you're the first. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u161	Please! I'm asking for peace in the hall. Only one has the word - colleague Kangler - with the invitation to remain the subject of discussion in your attention. Please, Comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u162	I can't go on if there's no peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u163	Please, Comrade Kangler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u164	If anyone feels hurt, raise your hand and replicate. Certainly this will be Comrade Zląb, who is one of the most popular Members, as far as it is concerned - and I will also keep this word so that I do not provoke further replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u165	Please! We'll all be grateful for that. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u166	In this interpolation it is necessary to ask where the story began and where the idea of the hydro holding of the All-Slovenian electricity economy was born. May Minister Kopač, as well as the Secretary of State, and everyone else tell us where and when this idea was born and who was behind this idea. The idea was born in Maribor; with documentation, with all this, the Drava power plants Maribor began to operate intensively with some institutes and they prepared all the documentation to obtain hydro holding, holding hydroelectric power plants, all-Slovenian holding companies. However, the political will of Minister Kopač and some who surround him was not such that this challenge was not accepted by the government's decision and transferred the seat of the holding company to Maribor. That Mr Kebric, a fellow Member of Parliament, had begun to collect signatures, a respected minister, was more than a reason why, before the government took a decision, we had collected 52 signatures in this National Assembly. We have sent these 52 signatures together with the content to the Prime Minister and also to you, Minister of Respect. Given that I personally, as a representative of the Slovenian People's Party, participated in the coalition negotiations where it is to be established, but I do not want to talk about the content of the talks, so that I do not needlessly challenge the replicas of some others sitting here today and participating in these coalition coordinations, but I would like to say that you, the distinguished Minister, were the first with the assistance of the Secretary of State of the Pigeon, who has done everything that this holding that we are talking about today, were established in Ljubljana. Not only that, you've actually pushed the Prime Minister against the wall. As far as I am aware, you have stated, in your performance you will be able to correct my statement that you have even made a condition, whether you or holding company in Ljubljana. And when I remember reminding the Prime Minister of the appointment of a government in the National Assembly that North-East Styria, Koroška, Prekmurje does not have any representative in the government, the Prime Minister then told me that he did not want a minister in the government who would act unilaterally, regionally and too much to look at one region. Today with all the responsibility and all the seriousness, Minister Kopač, I can say that you are one of those ministers who can do this. You know why? You did not respect the will of the National Assembly, the will of the signatures, 22 signatories, Members who are on you in some way with a petition, you can express yourself, expect to give up both in coalition coordination and in fact take a decision or request that the holding company be established in Maribor. In your multiple public appearances, you have deeply offended some people who come from different parts of Slovenia, including Styrians, although I believe that that word then escaped you and that perhaps you did not think so personally that in northeastern Styria or Slovenia there are no adequate personnel who would be able to maintain hydropower in Slovenia. However, I ask you, Minister, that today, before all other Members, before we decide how we will vote, you will give all the reasons why this holding company cannot have a seat in Maribor. What are those reasons why this is not in Maribor, given that we have everything? From space, from personnel and everything. Two, which is very important. You've made a lot of promises. You yourself were present on the city council of Maribor. Tell me, what things did you then promise to fulfill to this day? And in your performance, when you were talking about what Maribor got with this holding company, tell me one thing that you know, either human resources, and do not forget that the EEC, which was based in Maribor, had over 40 employees. And that you can't punch your chest today if you've set up a department of your ministry with 13 employees in Maribor, and on the other hand, over 40 people have lost their jobs because of these and other moves. I believe it wasn't your decision to insist on the end of the seat. In view of the coalition coordination that was just ahead of the decision, I have personally observed and also discussed with some of my fellow Members that the Secretary of State of the Golob, who in my opinion bears a large part of the responsibility for what we are discussing here today, is due to the interpretation which he has lobbyed with some Members, even with some information he has deceived and promised that it is better that the holding company in Velenj is better that holding anywhere else than in Maribor. The State Secretary of the Golob was observed in the corridors of the National Assembly and, after discussions by some Members, it was clear that the Secretary of State of the Golob had lobbied by group or individual Members, depending on the end of which Member was coming. In some ways, some who did not agree with 52 signatures wanted to bring a dissension between us so that even some of these signatures could be withdrawn or that they no longer agree with the way we Members have chosen. I think that if we elect Members to sign and address representatives of the government and the Prime Minister, this is an act that we can consider to be the most democratic. Dear fellow Minister, tell us publicly to all of us who are signed here on this letter why you did not respect the majority in the National Assembly, as regards the very seat of the holding company and the appeal addressed to you and to the Prime Minister. In coalition coordination, all three coalition parties, the Consolidated List, the People's Party and DeSUS continued to support and support the headquarters in Maribor. All the way. We even went so far that one of the ministers at the government meeting asked for a vote. There was no compromise, no agreement. Despite some arguments, which were made by representatives of all the three parties that I had previously listed, had and argued that the holding office in Maribor should be the seat of the holding company, you insisted on the meeting of the government and also appealed to the Prime Minister to vote on this and thus to reach the seat of holding company in Ljubljana. More could be said by the distinguished colleague of the Minister, also about the fact that Mr Kancler, the Secretary of State, was employed at your Ministry, who, according to you and some other statements, and also according to him, left for personal problems, family reasons. However, my opinion is somewhat different, and the attitude of a respected minister, not only to the employees you have in the ministry, even to us Members, regardless of which party you come from, you will first have to change, and immediately after you, the secretaries of the state. And my decision will be that, given that the Minister did not respect the majority, did not respect, nor did he at least try to take 52 signatures, at all, or seriously, but shows that he, as an individual, as a minister, as a representative of the government, does not have the first relation to parliamentary democracy, to Parliament, to Members - and that is my reason, dear fellow minister, when I decide to support the interpretation. If there were 38 or 39 signatures here, maybe my decision would be different: there are 52 signatures. Nor in coalition coordination, anywhere, as a minister, have you taken the opinion of 52 Members into consideration as a representative of the Slovenian Government, nor with the slightest seriousness. And my decision is to support the interpolation, and I hope that someone else on this list will join and also support the interpolation because you deserve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. Your performance challenged two replicas. First, Comrade Zląbec, after him, Comrade Ašić. I ask that we remain within the subject of discussion. Bad boy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u168	Yeah, sure, sure. Twenty years ago, Slovenia was the only decentralised republic in the former Yugoslavia. And this polycentrism was very good for both the Slovenian economy and Slovenian people, whether they were in the east or the west. Today, Slovenia is incredibly centralised. Everything that's going on is happening in Ljubljana. And vital sails outside Ljubljana must fight endlessly for survival. As far as this is concerned, I fully agree with my colleague Kangler. I also think that Secretary of State Robert Golob has taken into his own hands inappropriately excessive powers - I also agree here. But I can't agree with the resentment of a cynical smile. The word "Chinese Smile" doesn't say anything, it means it's without a historical memory. Cinic smiles were spoken of by Soviet prosecutors on permanent trials, as well as on Slovenian political - mounted - processes - after the war, it was not forgotten by the Russian example of how the defendants smiled cynically when they listened to all those insidious accusations. In short, "Cynical smiles" don't have to be operated on because they have too much blood on their hands. And they were mentioned by the prosecutors.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you very much, colleague Zląbec. I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you very much. At the beginning of his discussion, Mr Kelemina mentioned some of the meetings we had at the LDS Club last year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u171	Who are you trying to replicate?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u172	- Mr. Kangler, I'll figure it out. [[...]] At that time, we were actually considering the possibility - together with the representatives of the Ministry, which was run at the time, Mrs Tea Petrin - of bringing together all three hydropower plants in Slovenia, with the aim of establishing such financial power that would enable the construction of the Sava power plants. Well, it was in the political work, I think, the only record, because we are some Members of this letter, not as the position of the parliamentary club, but as signatories to the law - and also those who support us - sent it to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The history of holding, at least for me, began that time. I also know that the first objective was to set up a holding company to build a chain of Sava power plants, and it was only later that the next objective was to market electricity. I have been asked a question about when I have to listen all day to the fundamental problem that holding is not located in Maribor. This question came to me when Mr Delak collected the signatures - I apologize! - Mr Kebrič collected the signatures, and I thought that this would bring no good: not our project for which we have been tormented; but I did not expect such politicisation and even interpretation against Minister Kopač. Those who so enthusiastically defend the seat of the holding company in Maribor, and who even think that because of this, Minister Kopač "must fly" would ask what assumption you so eagerly advocate and why, for example, you deny the possibility that the holding company could be in Krske, or in Velenje, or elsewhere. The plant is, however, one of the largest or largest pools for the production of electricity, but if not, it will become after the construction of a chain of Sava power plants. Eles Gen, who is the daughter of the holding company and markets the power produced from the nuclear power plant, is an integral part of this holding company. In short, there are many pools in Slovenia where you could claim: only here and nowhere else can there be holding. And whether we should resist from each of these areas and collect signatures in the interest that this holding is located here, here and here. No! No! Today we listen exclusively to this: holding must be in Maribor and if it is not in Maribor, then the minister must go. But if a new minister arrives, the story will repeat itself; perhaps someone will start collecting signatures for Velenje. There are many of these options in Slovenia. And I don't think it's the subject of politicisation and political decisions where some company is based, because it's a matter of professional evaluation of what this company is going to be, how this company will work in the future, what its objectives are. And I think that this is a holding which is supposed to cover mainly policy, development, economic, financial, Slovenian electricity industry as a whole. That is why I do not think it is right to point out just one place, just one seat, and on this we base all the reasons why Minister Kopač, in turn, would have to have an interpolation in our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u173	Comrade Kangler, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u174	I'd like to replicate Mr. Auschwitz. Comrade Auschwitz, with all his political support, with all his knowledge, with all my acquaintances - and also probably many of his fellow Members will support this idea - if you think - and I also think that we are not just talking about Maribor and that there must be hydroholding or this holding company in Maribor. I fully agree with you regarding the burden you have in your valley, given the Kranka nuclear power plant. I agree. And I would also support this project. Just trust me that my colleague Kopač, the minister of this project and many others from your party would not support this holding company to have its seat in Krske. Trust me. And given the burden that Krško has with the environment, according to the power plant, depending on the nuclear power plant and the waste, and all that, you deserve it in your own way. But the other problem is, as I said before. The capital needs to be concentrated, politically, economically, all the power in one place. Do you believe this to be true? Ask the minister to tell him why some of the control councils in some power plants are down from five or six to three? So that some other political representatives from the coalition do not have their representatives, that only Minister Kopač can put his representatives in there so that he can control some projects, some moves. Let him tell you when the steering board of the Drava Power Plants will change and how many members will fall and why it will decrease! Is this a project by the Secretary of State of the Pigeon, or by the Minister, or by someone else? Why overnight - until today he was fine six - or seven-member, I don't know how many he was, and from now on only three. Of which I do not know how many representatives of the owners of the members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u175	Comrade Kangler! Attention to the subject matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u176	This suggests that everything needs to be concentrated. Nothing else. And believe me, Mr. Ašič, once you have such an idea, such a project, on this side, we will also support it on your side, because you are in exactly the same position as we are coming from Maribor or from northeast Slovenia: in exactly the same situation. Maybe even a little bit worse with the signed agreement that someone signed a month or two ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u177	Look, now I've got two for the replica. And it is possible that this verbal struggle would continue if I did not intervene. Therefore, I ask both colleague Kebrich and colleague Pečet not to continue the debate which is not the subject of discussion. Comrade Kebrich, then colleague of Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. A very brief replica of my colleague Ašić. Anyone who's listened unheeded could have given him a hard time. But he left and mixed it all up in one pot. It's about what hydroholding is -- and I can't imagine, as far as I know Velenje, there's no water like that to build any hydropower there. Just enough not to fool: the public and the superficial listeners to eventually fall for you. Otherwise, I think we made it clear. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u179	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u180	and precise. [[...]] The arguments are on the table. Everyone will make the same decision as he thinks his or her arguments have prevailed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u181	He's a friend of mine. A brief explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr Auschwitz, I am afraid that you have not understood today's debate or debate, which began on Friday. It is not just about holding, it is about the development of the Republic of Slovenia. And don't worry, even for you as a representative of a certain constituency, it would make sense that sometimes you'd stand up for your constituency. Slovenian national party, if you don't already, it will! This is about the development of the Republic of Slovenia and let go of this story that Mr. Kopač triggered by this act of holding. The talk is about the development stopped by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and stopped by Minister Kopač.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u183	To complement, Comrade Pechat, it is the responsibility of Minister Kopač. This is not a topical development, and please take this into account. I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u184	Just for a little while. I understand the interpretation exactly, but Mr. Pece doesn't. He's saying something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u185	With this, we have exhausted speakers who have had an unlimited opportunity to debate. We move on to two reported for a five-minute debate. This is colleague Barovic and colleague Sok. Then he will, and so will you, and then the Minister will have the opportunity to respond to the debate. First, my friend Barovic, after him, my colleague Sok. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished guests, representatives of the executive branch. I, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, before a bad year at the home labour body and in this National Assembly, publicly objected to the transfer of energy from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of whose Minister and its interpretation we are talking about today. I even suggested that energy be an independent ministry. The government said no. And today, interpolation, which has its reasons and reasons, is clearly given. So, the energy is the most responsible and responsible, Mr. Secretary, with all the work and effort you are putting into it, even the government, which has turned on the responsibility it has thus assumed and transferred it to your shoulders. By the way, to all the things I've said, to all the reasons for the interpolation, let me add one more. When the Zava law was passed, he was appointed a closing counsellor, who is said to have been under orders or instructions from you, Minister, three days the closure of the uranium mine Žirovski vrh and for two days closes the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine - with all billions and responsibilities up to thousands and a few employees in this mine. Let's just drop it! If the President of the National Assembly remembers, I have suggested to the College that this point - an interpretation that has its reasons - be a separate point of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Coincidence wanted us to break the second reading of the Labour Relations Act. And speaking on behalf, it has been said many times today, in the name of democracy, in the name of democracy. That's right. It is right to initiate an interpretation of the responsibility or irresponsibility of a minister's work, but it is right for all of us to be aware of the responsibilities of reading each other and of the labour law together. Does this mean that, after a while, we will be interpreting perhaps the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs because we will be late with the law and there will be consequences, such as they already are - many unemployed and disorderly in this area? And the saddest thing about all this is: what's gonna happen. Nothing! These 52 signatures will not be on the list when voting for interpretation. The Minister will remain. No one will listen to the problems and problems that you and your colleagues have brought to this national assembly. Or as Mosha Daian said many years ago: "Dogs bark, caravan moves on" And another question that I'm asking myself, and I'm probably not going to get, my respectable colleague and colleague, the answer, but maybe we can all think a little bit about this. I don't know that either. We've been talking, talking, talking for two days. And I wonder if it was the television broadcast because of the interpretation, or whether it was the interpretation due to the television broadcast. The reasons are given. Contracts are days. Objections against the reasons will be raised by the Minister at this time. That's why respected colleagues and colleagues! Let's make up our minds one time! Let us vote in favour of the interpolation or vote against the interpolation and finish, because there are 33 more laws for this session and 17 calls for the second month. But they're all connected to a democracy about which there are so many words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you very much. All I want to say is that someone would justly accuse me of disobeying the rules of procedure if anyone were to take away a word he wants to talk about interpretation. I, too, or colleagues in charge of the meeting, are obliged to respect the rules of procedure. And if Members wish to apply to the floor in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, they cannot be prevented from doing so. We are now very close to making a decision. There'll be a minister before that. Comrade Sok and colleague Mamić are last reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Although I signed up in writing yesterday, and then for a moment "spaved" in this hall, I listened to almost all the discussions. However, since Member Moze withdrew from the debate, I, too, have been deprived of this opportunity to discuss this part without restriction. But since I have already performed on behalf of the Group of Members, I will leave this part out and limit myself to these five minutes. However, I am sure, like some others who have debated here, that these allegations of interpretation, as far as the Minister's statements are concerned, would say so difficult that this debate could not actually have occurred if the Minister had taken this statement seriously and on the basis of this, resigned. So, since democracy is only ten years old in Slovenia, of course, this is not expected. More and more, of course, it is clear to us in the opposition that the Minister will remain. More than that, it seems from this interpretation that he will come out even as a hero and, of course, he will be able to go on with things as he has drawn them. Before him are very important laws: the building law, the land regulation law, and others. And, of course, as the winner of this interpretation, he'll be able to sort these things out in his own way. So, if I leave his statement that it is not necessary to comply consistently with all laws or that Maribor does not have the appropriate staff, this has been said several times, and it remains indisputably in this interpretation that the Minister has signed a contract with Kota in contravention of the conclusions and views of the Ministry of Finance, or he can, of course, speak to the Secretary of State who ordered him to sign, but the facts are facts. This treaty is extremely difficult financially and has been a talk about how it has burdened our economy. And I'm sure that, as it was signed, it was needless and that it was actually to the refugees in our country. If I also consider that, in fact, as he himself said, Maribor would not have received anything from where it would have been: nevertheless, I cannot, my fellow Member Ašič, recall that 52 of us in this House have signed this requirement that we - it is said - have faced this fact that 40,000 signatures have been collected in Maribor on this subject and that most of the coalition in this National Assembly does not wish to be taken into account. Well, since I'm running out of time, I'm only going to mention one thing, and how the Ministry of Transport and Communications is helping to centralize our country. Look, here's the thing -- you, Mr. Minister, you've got it -- it's the funds of the organic fund. The company that competed or applied was also granted these funds at a level of slightly less than 25 million. It is interesting, however, that, for example, the rating that was once issued by the paying agency and which your coalition has abolished in such a way that instead of this agency it is now giving credit - BON 1, BON 2 - specifically, from the Ministry a special company has been chosen, or three, which account for almost 300,000 tolars for this service, while the agency would do so for 22,000 tolars. The mortgage also executes from you an authorized law firm that accounts for 300,000 tolars; the same law firm on Ptuj would do so for 68,000 tolars. So this is one aspect of this centralisation that we've been talking about all day and it's extremely difficult. All these companies, which I have now appointed and which have an exclusive right from the Ministry to do so, are located in Ljubljana. And this company, which would get 25 million credits, would immediately give one million back to all of them so that this loan could even come into existence. When this company got this, it thanked you for this loan, because they found that this loan came at an extremely high cost. And such a way of accelerating development in Slovenia leads to additional and large centralisation. Well, the minister recently also replied to me that there is no need to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court; we are already used to this. At this point, I don't have time to explain-- [[...]] [[Signs for the end of the debate]] And if you'll excuse me, just one more sentence. [[...]] It is the case that the Constitutional Court has suspended the implementation of the decision amending and supplementing the decision of the long-term plan of the municipalities and the city of Ljubljana and the decision amending and supplementing the decision on spatial regulatory conditions for the planned S6 Stanežiča-Vižmarje. You know this thing. In your answer to my question, you answered that the site and building documents were issued before the Constitutional Court and that is why there is no need to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. So this is how the principle of our rule of law works. There's more stuff I've prepared here, but apparently I won't be given. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u189	I'm afraid I have to take your word for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u190	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u191	You've concluded the thought. My friend Mamić is the last person on my list to explain his point of view in five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I would only talk about one thing, which is probably no one said anything at all, except Mr. Rokavec mentioned something small. In fact, I wanted to be a member of my delegation's committee on infrastructure, environment and space, because that's what I'm interested in because I'm from "focha". And when Mr Kopač presented himself as a candidate for a minister, I asked him one question about the countryside, namely: so many old houses - through narrow settlements, especially here in Primorsk, and elsewhere - is untapped, there are so many buildings that have more owners, and so on. The problem is; but if he does something in this direction to bring those objects to life, in what way young families get a cheaper apartment and faster - of course. And especially to stay in the countryside. In the same breath, I also asked, What about those wall plans that are made in villages, even so much money that every congregation for this walled environment and then the buildings are not built. Why? Because the landowners don't want to sell it. And then there's dust and stuff. So, in short, there's no progress. And especially to villages that are already so demographically threatened, there is no incentive for life to start working again, but to live to make the countryside come alive. And, of course, it's the fight against centralism at the same time. Other elements of the fight against centralism would not be mentioned because much has been said. After a while, I also asked the question of the Member of Parliament - Mr Kopač - he also made a promise. Just in 15 months, at least I don't see anything in this direction being done. So I will say: as an explanation of my voice, I will not only be a member of the opposition, but by pure conscience, I will support the interpellation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u193	Thank you very much. If there are no new applications, then we can give the Minister of Mags. John the Ripper's word. You have the floor, Minister Kopach.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! I would really like to answer all the questions raised, but it seems to me that this would take an extremely long time. That's why I decided that I would try to answer all the questions that don't concern interpretation, and these were, I have to say, most of them, in writing out of respect for you. And I think it's also the most appropriate way to communicate. That is why I will focus on your questions or your claims regarding the indications of interpolation and will, of course, comment on them or try to reject them. With regard to the implementation of the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Drought, most of the time in all the debates mentioned was a sentence that was cut off from one of my statements on television, where I said that perhaps some part of the law would never be fulfilled. You should be aware - and you all said, maybe it was an awkward statement. I have to say otherwise: the statement was put in a completely different context. I made this statement in March 2001, when neither the assessments nor the verification of the damage caused by the dry law had yet been made and when we had no budget. And the law on the removal of the effects of drought - the one you know, you know, has two limits in its text: one is the limit on the amount of funds that can be used, and the other is the limit on the amount of the verified assessment of damage to the individual municipality. At the moment that I made this statement, this was somewhere towards the end of March, the assessment of the damage had not yet reached the level of the one that had been notified in the time of the adoption of the law. And we expected, at that time, that a statutory limit for the municipalities would be reached substantially sooner than all legal provisions would be exhausted. That's what I've been explaining. That's why I said, "A portion of the funds that were expected will never be paid, because after the letter of the law, I couldn't be paid." Of course, a TV statement may take up to five minutes, but a cut is published. That cut made you all upset. And in fact he didn't even upset you in March of the month when it was said, but in August of the month, in a completely different time: during the drought of 2001. At that time, it was only a repetition of the March statement. In March of the month, the only person who came forward was the newspaper Farmer’s Voice and somehow demanded an explanation of this strange statement. And we also published an explanation of this statement in Kmecko's vote on 18 April - as a ministry. But we didn't publish it anywhere in any other media. You're going to say, "Why didn't you send this on national television?" Well, we haven't. It's been a few days since the release of that contribution. But later it turned out - not March, not April, but much later - it turned out that my statement was actually premature. It has turned out that a legal limit will be reached, for which, of course, Members therefore rightly so request an apology. But it was never - to be understood by many that I had taken the right to speak or to determine which law was being implemented, which law was not being implemented, and similar things. It's nonsense! I've never tried to claim such a right or thought of anything like that. Of course, I can also say what has been mentioned several times that after the adoption of the budget we have provided all the means to comply with this law. So once again, in summary: this statement, which you quoted as an arbitrary statement, what the LDS thinks it will itself determine which law is being implemented and which law is not being implemented, was a statement explaining the content of the law. Maybe my indiscretion was just that I didn't explain it in one or two sentences so that even a cut on TV could be like that, but I explained it for about five minutes, and then what happened with this publication fell out. I am sure that you all have such an experience when you made a statement, and then, of course, one sentence, two was displayed, and it seemed to everyone that this was shown in a completely different context, as you explained. With regard to drought, I would just like to say that the former government, Bayuk's government, did not provide the 1.6 billion tolars, but should theoretically, when it was still in government. But once again I will say, no matter what other government it is: it could not even guarantee this because it simply faced the same problem as ours, Drnovšk's government, faced. The appropriations under the budget reserve item are simply running out. That's why I don't think it makes sense to push words about guilt here and there against one government and another, but it's just a matter of understanding the context of things. But most importantly, things have settled in the end. In relation to slaughterhouse waste, something has been said, in my opinion, a claim expressing ignorance of things. I'm sorry. It has been said that I take this debate from Mr Visiak's opening statement that 80% of animal waste is at low risk in Slovenia and that it could be processed for other purposes and used again, for example, as food for small animals, for burial, composting and so on. Mr Sok later spoke as a veterinarian that the regulation did not classify waste in three categories, so all slaughterhouse waste is subject to sterilization methods, which is significantly more expensive and which no country in the European Union can afford, and such things have been said, for example, that England burys slaughterhouse waste to be cheaper and so on and so on. All of this points to the ignorance of things. Low-risk animal waste, which is in fact around 75% of all slaughterhouse waste, our regulation, if I may say so, does not cover the mandatory economic service of the processing of slaughterhouse waste at all. This regulation, which, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, has been proposed by the Ministry of the Environment and Space of the Government and adopted by the Government, relates only to medium- and high-risk waste. The fact is that all, including low-cost waste, according to veterinary regulations - not according to our environmental regulations - must be sterilized, and since 1983 - Mr Sok, you have mentioned this, and the veterinarian, you must have known about this regulation - because of the anthrax. In Slovenia, anthrax often appeared before 1983 and was therefore banned from burying; what was your suggestion, czech, would have been cheaper to address the problem of slaughterhouse waste. We can't do it because of the risk the burial would entail in relation to anthrax. You said why we did not take advantage of all three existing Slovenian cafes: bird, beer and Kota in Ljubljana. You probably know that the rules of the European Union, which are also applicable to us - veterinary regulations - do not prohibit the use of poultry caphires in poultry Ptuj for anything other than chicken caphillery. The Pivka cafeteria, however, is not technologically equipped to process any other slaughterhouse waste like chicken; it does not have the appropriate mills so far. In short, the Cafilery in Kota was the only and is still the only available cafeteria for the processing of medium- and high-risk slaughterhouse waste in the Republic of Slovenia. Many of the debaters said that the Ministry of Environment and Space in the Kota Treaty did not respect the position of the Ministry of Finance, and you - Mr Drobnič specifically quoted him - spoke when we proved some irregularity here. That's not true! The contract with Kota was adopted at a government correspondence meeting. As you probably know, the correspondence meeting must be unanimous; if it is against one minister alone, if one minister has doubts, the correspondence meeting falls. This contract was confirmed at the correspondence meeting, I repeat. In the coordination phase, however, the Ministry of Finance did have certain comments that we have partly taken into account. So the final version of the contract is different from the one that went into government coordination. But any act that goes into government coordination is written first in one version, and then other authorities make comments on it and change it. However, any proposal for a law coming into Parliament is not in the final form adopted exactly as it was proposed, but you are also proposing what amendments. You have read that Koto can refuse waste disposal - Mr Vizjak, also Mr Sok. That's not true. The regulation does not allow this. You have seen that we have concluded an export contract, although it is possible to burn on domestic energy devices in Scotland specifically. And why the government didn't consider using flour and fat as energy fuel. The government doesn't just think about it, but it does. The flour is burned in Chestnut, and the fat is burned in Anhovem and Nazareth. However, the fact is that we exported stored flour, one that had already thickened or collapsed and had to be grinded again. If we were to burn it like that in Chestnut, we calculated it would be more expensive than if we took it to Germany. That is why, of course, we acted as good masters. I'm in a bit of an awkward situation with regard to holding. The only indication from the interpolation is that I have violated the law to promote coherent regional development. I quote: "because I did not propose that the seat of the holding company is in Maribor." With such a government proposal, of course, I cannot violate the law on promoting coherent regional development. At the same time, there have been a series of perceptions, both to me and to the government, and I would like to reiterate just a few things that I have already highlighted in my opening act. The seat of holding company cannot be linked to centralisation or decentralisation, because it is not a state-law body, nor is it a political body. However, in the light of decentralisation or centralisation, for example, we can consider the recent decision of the Ministry of Environment and Space to set up or organise a part of its Ministry of the Environment in Maribor. That's what I'm talking about. Today we have exactly half of the energy office located in Maribor. In fact, we are the first ministry to move out of Ljubljana if I consider that department of the Ministry of Economy, which has inherited the former Ministry of Tourism and Small Economy. But we don't pretend to do this to solve the centralization problem. But instead of a ficus and secretary in Maribor we actually opened our office with highly qualified jobs. With regard to holding, you have most often read to me by individual discussers a statement that - but you quoted it in a form in which I have never spoken it. In general, different debaters all said that only Ljubljana had the right frame to manage the holding. It was kind of a red thread of all these quotes. I, of course, have never said anything like that, and I have to deny it again. Some people keep repeating and repeating this fiction, saying that I was insultingly expressing myself about non-loving personnel. But let me take advantage of this event's reassurance if my statement was misinterpreted at the end of July, is insufficiently explained and therefore, of course, interpreted entirely differently than it was expressed and intended. Apparently, I've hurt a lot of people. In fact, this was not my purpose, and I would like to explain again for a moment. The holding took over from the public company Eles a business activity called a joint appearance on the market. This was organised in Ljubljana and became the main business activity of the holding company. If it were organised elsewhere, therefore, the main business activity would also be organised elsewhere and the seat of the holding company, of course, would also be elsewhere. But this one was located here. Such a decision fell many years ago, 10, 15, and I have nothing to do with it. However, I have stated that the appropriate personnel are for this main business activity, which is a total of 5,6 people located here. That's all I wanted to say. But, of course, it was understood as if I had insulted others, that they knew nothing. Of course that's not true. Then you talked a lot about jobs. Let me say that in the framework of companies involved in holding, 4,500 employees are in many locations: in Posoča, in Ljubljana, in Velenje, in Brestina, in Maribor, in Koroška, in Ptuj and so on and so on. 4,500 employees. Of these 4,500 are in Maribor 350, already in existing companies. These are employees of the company Drava power plant Maribor. And all 350 are not located in Maribor, there are fewer. They'll all stay where they are, except for those who redistribute themselves into holding. Holding, that is what we have promised, and we also think it is most rational to take the staff from existing electricity companies. Right now, I've already said that in the opening address, he's 35, and by the end of his formation, he's going to have about 75. They'll all be from existing power companies. Of these 35, who are currently employed, there are 4 in Nova Gorica, 6 in Maribor, and in about two weeks there will be 17, 19 in Velenje, 6 in Ljubljana, and that is all. In doing so, I would also like to say that - again, as I am already in the introductory address - only that business activity which was already organised in Ljubljana has remained in Ljubljana as part of the holding. At the level of energy, Slovenian energy, there is now a number of new business activities within the holding, which were previously not organised at the state level. All of these, without exception, are located in Gorica, Velenj and Maribor. In short, no new job has been created here in Ljubljana, but all have been created on these trilocations. I repeat what these are: as far as Maribor is concerned, there is a service for the management and operation of all Slovenian power plants connected to holding, in Maribor is the maintenance sector of all Slovenian power plants, the sector of investment in Slovenian energy, there is a department for strategic development located and there is the director of holding the technical field. If you don't mind, I'll be able to fly through the most common readings of the remaining interpolation points. Regarding my alleged black construction, Mr Vizjak and Mr Sok have informed me that the building permit is still not legally binding. This is not true, but my building permit was legally valid in 1989; a change in the building permit, which is not substantially altered, is not legal, but is valid. And the current building permit is, by our legislation, of course, sufficient for legal construction, and this applies to all other citizens, and it also applied to me when I was building. But it's been a long time and I don't think there's any point in warming this up again. Then you - here I have to say very briefly - Pukšič even declared that I had bought a state apartment, and he told me so. It's a fat lie, nothing but a lie in this. Then Mr Tanko and Mr Vizjak read to me the non-signature of the mining rights concession contracts. As I have explained in writing in explanation or in response to the interpolation, the deadline for signing concession contracts was May 15th, indeed, but 17 days earlier I formally became Minister of Mining. These concession contracts were not prepared, they were not written; you know that it is impossible to draw up 180 contracts within 17 days and align them with potential signatories across Slovenia, sign them and, in short, put them into effect. That's impossible. It is true that, theoretically, on the 17th day, before May 15th, formally, in your opinion, I do not know, an extension of the deadline. But that wasn't necessary. I'm stressing again. Since it is automatic - the law states, the mining law that mining rights cease, but this is determined by a decision. We have not issued these decisions, so mining rights have not ceased. On the contrary. We prepared all these concession contracts, distributed them all over Slovenia, and we signed them all by the end of last year. But the fact is, that's all that matters. In view of the need to pay a concession fee for exhausted quantities during this year, in February or March. That way no one gets hurt at all. With regard to the lower Sava, you've been reading me a whole bunch of things. For example, Mr Kelemina said that it was not true that Bayuk's government had not done everything to regulate the concession relationship. And, of course, I didn't do it - according to him. The fact is that on 9 November 2000, the previous government adopted a concession act for all hydropower plants in the lower Sava, including the latter, at the border with Croatia, and that it had given itself time to sign the concession contract within ten days, which means, by 19 November, when the previous government was, of course, in a saddle; when I was nowhere else, it was only for the Minister to be in charge of energy. Of course, she did not do this because this treaty was not really prepared. This contract existed in some version, but I think it was a very bad version and it had to be thoroughly supplemented even last year. There, in mid-December, we finally reconciled it with many lawyers and, finally, with the company of the Sava power plant to the extent that it is now about ripe for consideration. The fact is, however, that the time limit for signing the concession contract by law, not according to that decision of the Bajuk Government, for Vrhovo and Boštanj in fact took place on 21 January 2001. I became Minister of Energy, once again underlining April 29, 2001. Mr Kelemina talked a lot about the financial competence of the Sava power plants to build a chain on the lower Sava, and about the financial incompetence of the Drava power plants to build the lower Sava. I must say, all of his statements are in conflict with the facts - I'm sorry. He told me about the various contracts that were concluded with IBE, if they were unnecessary because the pre-investment design had already been made - I think February 2001. These contracts were made for the infrastructure part of the investment. Earlier this, before - I'll say - last summer no one had ever gone before, so we had to find the manufacturer. IBE was not invented by us at the Ministry of Environment and Space, but was first contracted by the Sava power plant, then by the Drava power plant as the most qualified or only qualified contractor. And then, as such, in agreement with the Public Procurement Office, which has to give a special opinion on this, we have also chosen it. Mr Brejc here mentioned the Drava power plant Maribor as a public company. I have to say that this is not a public company - but well, it's not that important. Then there was a series of readings regarding the hydroelectric bridge. The Moste hydroelectric power plant is a complex project, as well as the findings you mentioned are quite complex. In fact, it is not possible to summarize them briefly. But I'll just be the main two. I've been informed that the location plan is contrary to the protocols of the Alpine Convention. Let me draw your attention to the completion of the response to interpolation on page 20, where everything is described very precisely, I will not read to you when the Convention on the Protection of the Alps was adopted, which are the protocols on the basis of it and how they were taken into account in the drafting of the location plan. One more time. Your observation is that the location plan has no basis in the State Spatial Plan. This is a plan, I must say, if you've been paying attention - I don't know; that Mr Vizjak read from the interpretation in his opening act. Then Mr Rupar read the same readings once again, only that he had changed the paragraphs a little. What kind of paragraph did he say before? And the story was just twice as long. The fact is that in the State Spatial Plan, the reconstruction and installation of the Moste hydropower plant is envisaged and that the location plan was, of course, based on the State Spatial Plan adopted by Parliament. And, as Mr Ašič has pointed out, the ministry has, after all, followed not only the decisions of the National Assembly, but the State Spatial Plan, which has the status of so-called law. But if we didn't do this to me, of course, we'd be mature, maybe, for interpolation. The fact is, however, that the condition for the final adoption of the local plan is that the Municipality of Bled amends the decree on the nature protection area adopted by it. The Municipality of Bled does not want this, and the Ministry has also stopped the process of adopting the site plan at the point when we need this consent of the congregation of Bled. There is no such agreement, and that's why it's all worth it now. However, it is a little inappropriate to observe illegality or to pursue a local plan that began to take place in 1998. Well, I tried to go quickly through the main findings and, as I said, the findings that do not relate to the content of the interpretation, we will try to explain to an individual Member in the form of a letter, as if it were some kind of a parliamentary initiative or a question of a mission. At this or in the end, let me just say this. Interpellation, which now lasts for the second day, so on Friday and today, is, of course, an unpleasant matter for the Minister, especially because there is also a great deal of it, not just statements that point to some misunderstanding, which is the power to tolerate - many lies have also been said. Nevertheless, this must somehow be rented to ministers or governments. But the fact is, after all, as strange as it sounds, let me also express some kind of gratitude. This debate certainly shows the thinking needed by the political points and is, after all, a valuable experience for the Minister, for his work to continue. And if, of course, I receive your confirmation, I will, of course, try to take the points of this debate as fully as possible in my further work and will be a valuable guide for me to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Your performance caused four controversial reactions, or five. First colleague Jerovšek, behind him colleague Sok, mag. Vizjak, colleague of Rupar and colleague of Pukšič and colleague of Kelemin. First of all, please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, when I listened to your current answers, your explanations, I must say that I stared and wondered. After so many months, I would expect more skill, although I highly appreciate you as an expert, a highly intelligent man; but you can clearly see that you have been kept quiet all the time and that you have not been seriously prepared to defend yourself. You were aware that you would be defended at all costs and that you did not have to defend yourself with arguments. And after this salary you surprise me, of course I have nothing against you personally, but I am concerned about some quality of acting minister in this country. In fact, the negation of what you actually meant by those words - you have to admit that each individual statement was the same as that of the driver of the car carrying the red light, and we know what awaits him, we know. Politically speaking, this was a transported red light, if Slovenia is a different country, it is - unfortunately, unfortunately. However, this could be avoided, all political consequences, with immediate apology - with immediate effect. And then you even got deeper, deeper and deeper into the sand, deeper in the repeat statements on TV. Because you had silence. And with the current performance, for the last time, interpellation is a distraction, obstruction of the ministry's work. That's not true. If there were no interpolation, there would have been a lot of bad decisions and bad contracts, and I am so sure there were fewer of them this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u197	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u198	And then you say about the treatment of slaughterhouse waste - and you rejected it all with ignorance, professional ignorance. For God's sake, some here in this hall, when they talk about it, have high professional references and qualities and know very well. With regard to technological treatment, these slaughterhouse waste and incineration, I also personally know very well the technological process, all the devices on which this is being done. And so on January 25th last year, I immediately warned that this could not work. And look, when you say that, say, export, from these and bone meal, was cheaper than smoking at home. [[...]] That's not true. If people, manual workers with hammers "toll" like we once collophoned, it would still be cheaper. Because millions of stamps have gone here for unnecessary foreign purposes. Believe me, your advisors gave you bad advice. That probably didn't grow on your herb. Very bad. Such simple products, which have high energy value, to drive abroad is a national disgrace. That's a fact. Second. Since I am from that end of Slovenia, do not blind us to the fact that you are the first ministry to move a part of the Ministry outside of Ljubljana, but earlier to abolish the section with 64 people. And we all know, because we all know, but now you and 13 people have created something in Maribor, and you are showing it and selling it as a great achievement. It's just not like that. Then, regarding Maribor, you said that it was a common performance on the market, that these people were actually only in Ljubljana. And even if they were. Why can't five people drive to Maribor in one sector, but if 100 people and 150 people can drive from Maribor every day? An important possession site in Maribor. And if you were willing to act politically if you did not implement this policy - a centralisation that is not your fault, you are only the contractor. This is a policy that is the motto of the current coalition, or the largest party. And you're the contractor. If we resisted the implementation of this centralisation, we would say five people would be driving to Maribor if we actually thought that those only ones were saved, the only ones capable. It wouldn't have ruined the country, it wouldn't have ruined the country. Or if we gave them an apartment in Maribor. And an apology again. I thank you, even on behalf of the people from that end. Although all of this could have been done on the second day if political wisdom had prevailed and if it had not been for the implementation of a centralisation policy that you have served faithfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok, his colleague, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u200	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. The Minister defined a discussion of those we discussed on the disposal of slaughterhouse waste into the category of non-recognition. He says it is already possible to make this deployment in Slovenia, but I do not know what order. I'll read you the order in force. 2. Article 2 clarifying what the concepts of this provision are, of course, you have not signed the regulation, but your boss, Drnovšek, says that slaughterhouse waste and infectious material of animal origin are animal waste belonging to the category of high-risk animal waste or are defined in a group of particularly dangerous animal wastes, in accordance with the veterinary rules for which a specific treatment and non-injurious disposal is established. And then there's animal waste. I do not know if you have any other regulation published in any secret official letter, such as President Drnovšek at times, published official lists during the former Yugoslavia, or why this claim of yours is now possible to classify these wastes in different categories. It is then stated in Article 15 that the concessionaire who conducts the heat treatment of the animal waste he takes from the waste agent must provide the capacity for the heat treatment of at least 180 tonnes of animal waste for each working day. I'm asking you why. Because they wrote this order in Koto, which stipulated that 180 tonnes per day is the amount that is Ptuj poultry or the Ptuj cafeteria in Pivka, it is also to consult the Secretary of State, but I tell you, you say that poultryPtuj is only qualified for processing under the rules of poultry cathery waste. That's right. But you're the government, and I've been able to tell you in my implementation why you didn't name an expert team to help you prepare these things. Why didn't you do it? As a government, you may have amended the regulation accordingly and given the possibility to dispose of other waste in the avian cafeteria. If you're saying beer doesn't have the right capacity. Further, you framed me for saying that in England, slaughterhouse waste is buried. They're burying them! On one occasion, we could see [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u201	I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Before you proceed, colleague Sok, I'd like to ask for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u202	Just stop me for an hour. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u203	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u204	Thank you very much. So I said that on one occasion in England, the waste was buried. The whole world was surrounded by photographs and videos of how, at the advent of the footstool and the footstool in England, slaughterhouse waste and the diseased animals were buried on the scene. The state has dealt with this problem in one way or another, as you probably would. When you were interpreting this subject, you were using BSE, well, today you've slipped this thing a little bit and you've been voicing for anthrax and you said that we've been doing this since 1983. And I'm going to tell you that in this country, we've been laying waste to animals until the last cadaver. We fed cadavers to Koto, milled them, and then added them as animal food back into the diet of domestic animals. For example, Canada, the United States and European countries have not done this in a long time. This was done only in Slovenia and, of course, in countries east of us. As never wanted to arrange two processing lines on which to process cadavers on one line, which should have been destroyed a long time ago, and on the other line of normal slaughterhouse waste. That's why you came into this situation. I'm very pleased that you said that you had decided on such an important contract as this treaty with Kota at the correspondence meeting. The government, by deciding at a correspondence meeting on such an important matter, has shown how it relates to the use of our national budget money. Of course, by the time you concluded this contract, you probably knew that on the first occasion you would be re-analysing this cost to the slaughterhouse industry. And that's how you actually did it last August. But it's an extremely high cost. And the fact that Koto doesn't have a chance by contract to strike. Yes, we experienced this in public last September 17th. For two days Koto did not want to remove the waste, on the third day it began to re-move it, and on the fourth day the Ministry of Agriculture, or on the woman’s day before, pointed Koto to a giro account, I think, 130 million tolars. So he doesn't say he doesn't. But if there is no chance, tell us what you did against Koto at the moment she predicted one form of the sentence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you. There's a colleague of mag's who's got the word. Vizjak, behind him, colleague Rupar. A colleague of mags. The seer's canceling. Is that what my friend Rupar's gonna do? [[No, no, ……]] You have the floor. Behind you, Comrade Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. I personally deeply regret hearing the words of Mr Kopač, not only about the subject I have been exposing, but about his performance. I hope that such empty arguments, such a way of answering the obvious, have convinced many in this Chamber that it is not worth giving to the Minister of Environment and Space as you are. Mr. Digger! So vehemently, so ignorantly, with your left hand, when someone was talking there, it's not worth it, it's been so many years, the two of them were talking about the same subject, you said. You did not specify any valid argument at all. I listened to you very carefully. And that's just because you know you've been assured, you're almost likely to stay in this place. I expected something completely different from you. Today I am 100% sure that you are not the right Minister for Environment and Space because you have no idea of the environment and space. That's what I hope to say. You have a lot to do with the economy, so you also have energy and all the money in this package, from Sava power plants, to revenue, to expenditure to construction. That's what you saw from your show. Everything else about space and environment, Mr. Minister, you really don't know anything. Not much. You may have advisers, but to interpret, however, you don't know them. You ignored the note and letter sent to you about the Moste hydroelectric power plant from Switzerland or Liechtenstein; they were signed by the President, both Vice-Presidents, namely Cyprus, who sent it to you. None of that. You don't even know the protocols, all three of them. You don't know them, I hope. I hope so. If you've been wondering, you've been up from Friday to today. I personally expected a single move from you to propose at least a reflection, both to the government, the Prime Minister and to this Parliament, that perhaps given that you claim that your ministry is overwhelmed with problems, with work and everything to propose a new ministry, the Ministry of Energy. This country would be urgently needed and very useful, I am personally sure of it. I expected you to do this with Mr. Secretary or Undersecretary. There's no such thing. The problems here would be much easier to solve, much less obvious, and this ministry would suit you much better than the framework, space and environment. In this regard, I'm sorry, I'm very disappointed, and I'm even more certain that the interpretation is completely in place and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u207	Three more shows have been reported. First a colleague of Pukšič, after him a colleague of Kelemina and, finally, Dr. Brace. First, my friend Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u208	Thank you very much. With regard to this apartment, Minister Kopač, you have said little or nothing in your explanation. I will read what was written on Sunday, September 2, 2001 in the daily news: "Miha Kozinc has taken over the government's housing commission, and this has granted him a large office apartment in Kotnikova after the expiry of his term of office. It was completely new. However, Members of the Members of the Parliament's Law can only be granted an office apartment if they have a permanent residence of at least 60 kilometres from Ljubljana, not that they live in Ljubljana, where they already own an apartment and build a house on top of it, of course without a building permit. He introduced himself as a poor man in a wet basement. He was silent about the property, but the authorities are still sticking their heads in the sand. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u209	Warning on the subject of interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u210	"It is clear from the role of Janez Kopač and the material that during the allocation of the apartment he was not the owner of the apartment in Ljubljana and lived with his parents' family, says Matija Valič." Well, it is clear from this again, Mr. Kopač, that you did not make accurate statements and that you were deceiving. This seems to be quite a practice of yours in this political history in which you are spinning. The fact that you have acquired illegal assets on this account is also evident from the fact that at the same time it is written in the calculation that you have earned at least 6 million tolars in this way. Act [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u211	Watch out! Again, Comrade Pukšič, this is not an item of interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u212	I answer to Minister Kopač about the apartment he responded to. But it is true, Minister, that under the law you have received a loan, preferably r+3%. And today as Minister of Kopač, of course, you can also provide such favourable loans for other Slovenian young families, which without exception. [[The voices in the background.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u213	My friend Puksich! My friend Puksich! I'm asking for peace in the hall. My colleague Pukšič, you must stick to the terms of the subject matter. Please. Do you want to finish?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u214	Since Minister Kopač also mentioned that he had nothing to do with the loan in connection with Drava Power Plants, he would only point out that even when he was Minister of Finance for 14 days at the time, your wife rented 100,000 marks of credit at Hit, according to the documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u215	My friend Puksich! It's not an interpolation. I must demand peace in the hall. We're almost there. Please, Minister, please, fellow Member! Everything you have to say to yourself must be done in accordance with the rules of procedure and in public. Comrade Kelemin, behind you, Comrade Brejc, and if I may understand, colleague Podobnik. Did you ask? [[Yeah.]] My friend Kelemin first. Please. And I'm asking for the perfect peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. All respectable once again! I would like to join my other colleagues who have found that your answer, Mr Minister-respected, is, at the end of the day, extremely sophisticated, weak and groundless, not only in those items or in that debate I presented myself this afternoon, but also in other matters. I hope that citizens have had the opportunity to follow this approach of yours, that they have found that many things are not really known, and that these answers were also so general, superficial, unfounded. Only those of you, if I lean back, have not answered any of the key questions why we need an idea project commissioned by the Drava Power Plants at the IBE, an idea project for the lower Sava, for HE Boštanj. The call for proposals, which were made for 149 million, is nothing more than that. I said that if tenders were made, it would be significantly cheaper. Without the invitation to tender, you gave 149 million to IBE because you were solving its financial situation and so on, according to the links I was talking about. You did not reply to why you pleaded that you had only taken over your post on 27.4. or only in April once, why, if you knew that the concession law was not being fulfilled, why you did not propose a change of law or at least announce it in some way to change those arms in the law. You didn't do it. No, but you were doing something completely different. Of course, things have been very complicated with different variants, and that's also what your fellow LDS colleagues have pointed out about these things. But you've been making false promises to the whole country, as well as to the local community. The very false promises that eventually became a lie. If you make a promise and you don't keep it, you set ten deadlines, ten different options, and you don't make it last, then it's just a lie in the end. I firmly believe that, at least if we have not already convinced the Members of the National Assembly of your unfair attitude towards all of them, both to the Mariborians, as regards these statements, both to the farmers and to the National Assembly, Mr President of the National Assembly, it would be right for the Minister to be suspended in this debate. [[...]] He was extremely cynical and rude to the entire national assembly and to the Members because he said that this interpellation was an ordinary event in the National Assembly. It's not an event, it's an intervention against the minister. And this is an insult to the entire national assembly, a cynical and rude attitude of a minister, such as he really is. He is very cynical and rude, even though he is a real expert in certain areas. Just like was said. He's an expert and he's worthy of all respect. But that's no way to talk in front of a national assembly. I really don't. I hope you have all come to know that Minister Janez Kopač, because of this attitude towards Slovenia and to us - the National Assembly, cannot be a minister anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u217	A colleague, Dr. Brejc, has the word, after him last reported, a colleague of Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u219	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u220	I asked Mr Kopač in my discussion whether Drava Power Plants could lend money. He did not answer that question, but he did not answer my definition of Drava Power Plants as a public undertaking. Of course, I will not discuss with Mr Digač, who is an unqualified person in this case. This is a publicly owned or publicly owned company and so on. In European terminology, this is a public company. But this is really a terminology debate. The point is that he did not answer the question: Why, or can they borrow Drava’s electricity? Under the Banking Act, Articles 3 and 4, it is very clear that lending is a bank service. And under the Banking Act, only banks can provide banking services. If Drava Power Plants do this now and it seems perfectly normal and proper to the Minister, this is another proof that he does not know the laws anymore and that something that is obviously illegal seems quite normal to him. Of course, I am not surprised by this view, because I have previously pointed out a whole range of things, actions that show that Mr Copač and the Government are quite different from what they are saying. I would therefore ask Mr Kopač to answer this question and ask for an answer to the question: Can Drava power plants lend money and where is the legal basis for this action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Comrade Podobnik, behind him colleague Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The last appearances of the fellow Members of Parliament following the performance of the Minister, Mr Kopač, have convinced me that it would be much better for the substantive debate, especially when our electorate and the electorate were directly accompanying us, that the Minister would respond immediately to each performance. Because I now have the impression that we are really speaking to the blind and the deaf among ourselves, because earlier in the debate, a very specific statement or an observation was made, and it would be good to hear the answer immediately. Today we have heard long debates here on the content of the first interpolation and have not commented on the first answer. We talked past each other, and this is also bad for the work of the National Assembly. People don't know what this is about. I've had quite a few calls myself at this time. But something will also have to be arranged with the instrument of interpolation itself. Again - I have a spine, I was previously told that I do not have it - I am sure that Minister Digač answered the obvious about the Alpine Convention, answered correctly and convinced me. He convinced me about the issue of granting concessions - he convinced me. But I heard one topic where my ears were raised. President, assess whether this is the content of the interpolation or not. I heard some response from the minister about his apartment. Why did he say anything about it? Why did the minister mention him? Where did this apartment come from?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u223	Please, this was an observation - I warned you this was not an object of interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u224	The moment the minister responded to him, he became the content of the interpretation. Mr. Minister, you didn't convince me here, so I'd like to ask you to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u225	Please, buddy Wolf. Please, we will bring the discussion to a peaceful conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u226	Thank you, President. I'd have a replica of Dr. Brejc's colleague, because I think he's mentioned three times today at least twice that the Minister is not qualified for certain answers. With regard to whether Drava power plants can lend money or provide, as he says, banking services, I might give him one reference point to consider, in civil law, that we also know the specific contract and that two legal persons or two entities may conclude a specific contract, in accordance with the provisions of the Bond Relations Act, but this is not permitted, if explicitly prohibited by law. However, given that they have prepared well for this interpretation, they already know whether the other laws prohibit Drava Power Plants from lending money.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek. I'm just asking, Minister, would you like to answer then? You'll be fine. Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u228	I'd like to replicate to my colleague in the part where he found out that people don't know what this is about. I don't think there's ever been a case like this, two things where people get so involved and they're so well aware of what it's all about. When it was said that the law would not be respected with regard to damages, the whole of Slovenia rose. And I think your client should be able to detect that. Farmers were hurt and they know what it was, what it was meant to be. And I think your client should be able to detect that. Farmers were hurt, and they know what it was and what it was all about. Same thing about holding in Maribor. During those summer seasons, pickles were collected at a time without the organization of 40,000 signatures, and people are well aware of the consequences, material and financial. That's pretty good. And we wonder if we're saying that people don't know what it was about or what the goal was, why the Minister the Dipper had to talk like that. He implemented government policy in this area and sacrificed himself for it. But this time, thank God, people have clearly seen what this is about. I think it was on your side just lapsus, that you actually know that in this case people knew very well what it was all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u229	Mr. Secretary wants to answer. Will you, Comrade Podobnik, wait for the answer? Okay. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u230	This isn't really an interpolation thing, but I did, because Mr Pukšič lied. I'll read it because he's already read the article and my answer to that article.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u231	That's not the subject of interpolation. Just an explanation and then there will be no more discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u232	In short, the denials of lies read by Mr Puksic were published on Sunday, 9 September last year. You can read them there. But I'm sure, just to conclude, if any of that were true, the interpolation investors would have written it into interpolation because it was published in the newspapers long before the interpolation was written. But since they know it's not true, they didn't include it in the interpolation and it's very unfair that now that it's over, they're bringing it in on the day, because it's long since been demented.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u233	Is that all you wanted to say, Minister? Comrade Podobnik, colleague of Pukšič. Please. Very short episodes associated with the subject of interpolation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I understood the minister's answer to this question about the apartment, and I think I know that it was a publication in one of the Slovenian journals that comes out on Sundays. Is that it? Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšku, a short replica. Yeah, of course, people know exactly what's related to holding. They know that well. But I've been talking about those topics that have to do with breaking the law. The Kot, the concessions, the Alpine Convention, people don't know about it. And it would be good for the minister to respond immediately to the obvious. That's what I was thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u235	My friend Puksic. Comrade Brace, did you want a word? Please. Just a minute. My friend Brace, would you like a word? Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u236	I would ask, Mr President, if you could ask Mr Copac to answer one question for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u237	Dr. Brace, the minister can do that. But he doesn't have to. It's his assessment of which questions he'll answer. I can't force him to do that. Would you like to answer, Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u238	I'll answer that there won't be a feeling that I didn't want to. Although it's not an interpolation issue, and if you have any further questions, I can also give you a written answer. We asked Drava Power Plants, as the Ministry, in mid-November and received the following letter and checked that this is the case: "Dravska power plants are restoring the power plant on Drava with their own resources and with the help of a loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development..."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u239	Can you read it more clearly? Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u240	"The repayment of European Bank loans for reconstruction and development is due every six months. The amount of the loan is well worth a billion tolars. The funds for the repayment of the loan shall be collected on purpose and shall be deposited as a short-term loan or deposit during the period until the transfer is abroad..."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u241	Mr. Secretary! Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u242	I wanted to be as short as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u243	Please. We have brought the debate to this point with dignity, and I propose that we end it this way. Read the key part of this, that's enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u244	I'm just summarizing for a moment. Liquidity space, liquidity assets, every company, not just the Drava power plant, in between when it doesn't need them right now, is moving. This isn't a banking business. This is a normal economic activity. And Drava Power Plants specifically concluded around 70 such contracts with various financial institutions last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u245	Now I see a few hands. First, I will give my colleague Puksic my word, warning that I will not allow the previous dialogue to continue. And then, my friend Brace and my colleague [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u246	President, I'm not going to have any dialogue, but since Minister Digger told me I was lying. I ask clearly, publicly and loudly: Did he have an office apartment - "I" or "No" on Kotnikova, over 100 square meters by 1997?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u247	I have to say it again. This question is legitimate, but it is not the subject of this debate. That's why you can't stand him. But the Minister doesn't have to answer us right now. He can if he wants to, but he doesn't have to. Mr. Pukšič, pay attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u248	That's what we were talking about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u249	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u250	And he had it even though he owned his own apartment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u251	I have to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u252	Let him answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u253	I have to intervene in this debate. We had a quiet discussion, and we led her almost to the end. I propose that we do not change the course of the debate before deciding. Dr. Brace's colleague Petan, colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u254	Thank you very much. The Black Minister read this message in such a way that no one understood, but it was heard that there were 70 such contracts last year. Of course, I accept Mr Wolf's warning about the possibility of a money transfer contract. However, I would point out, however, that the Banking Act is very clear here and is talking about lending. That's a different concept. From what the Minister has read, as far as we can understand from this rapid reading, it was loans. This is said to be a loan, but it is particularly problematic because it is a state-owned company. If something is state-owned, then the one who is state-owned must act in the public interest. And in the public interest, among other things, there is respect for the principle of equality and other principles of democratic regulation, which means equal access to resources. Here, however, government money is used to distribute it on favourable terms, not to the public. If the Drava Power Plants were to make a call, I doubt this invitation to tender would go through a legal assessment. That's my contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u255	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich wants a procedural one. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u256	Although I predicted procedurally quite early, you gave your word to Mr. Brejc. But I ask you kindly, on behalf of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and those who wish to respect this Rules of Procedure, and agreements, if you wish to discuss at the points of the agenda which talk about how it is even possible to discuss. This is not a tribunal where someone would question a minister who is accused of a certain matter and the interpretation is defined quite clearly. I very much ask that you, Mr President, do not deviate from the rules which otherwise apply to such agenda items. Regardless of whether you want to bring the matter to a close with some calm, you must, if necessary, warn someone or take the word away from the subject and, above all, try to conduct some interrogations in the style of the investigative commissions and so on. This is a matter that is a matter of full understanding of the interpolation institute. I only hope that in this way we will draw attention to those who think that today can spread with various questions this subject to just stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u257	I think it would be difficult to recall any debate in which, as President, I have touched it so many times, even now in the end. I will, of course, stick to the rules of procedure, this is my duty. My friend Petan has the floor. That's the last one reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. So, I am not going to question the Minister myself, but I have certainly listened to him carefully and the last answer he gave to Mr Puksic's debate - but now I do not know whether he was again careless with his statement, which is also the subject of this interpolation, that he was convicted, or was corrected and admitted one matter. I will try to say as literally as possible what he has said. He said this: "What Mr Pukšič read is a lie and a lie, and a fat lie. The denials of lies were published there and there." And he went on: 'Cause if it wasn't a lie, then the interpolation proponents would write it in the proposal for interpolation, because it was published before [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u259	I would like to draw your attention to the subject of this debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u260	"this has been published since before the interpellation's proposals." That's what they say, is it, then, what we wrote in the interpellation, really? Because that's what Mr. Digger said - if it were true, we'd be writing into the interpolation. That's because it's a lie that Mr Pukšič read, and we didn't write it down because everything else is the truth. That is what I now conclude from what Mr Digger has said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u261	This is the last show. Would you like to give me an answer, Mr. Secretary? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate, colleagues and colleagues. Do you have a procedural proposal before making a decision? Please, mag. A visor. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u262	Before taking a decision on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group, I would like to request a recess by 10 p.m. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u263	Of course, this option exists. I ask, is it possible to shorten this leave of absence for consultation in the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u264	No, I'm afraid not, I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u265	We've decided to work until the end of the day. I'm taking a vacation. At 10 p.m., the National Assembly will decide on the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u266	I ask my colleagues and colleagues to come to the large debate room of the National Assembly. We'll proceed with the adjourned session. We'll move on to the decision. The hour is after 10:00. We'll first find out if there's a presence in the hall. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, I ask for peace! Please, if we can find out if there's a presence in the hall. There are 60 Members and Members present; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. A colleague of mags. Mr Vizjak asked for a recess on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members. Would you like to communicate your views after the consultation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! On the basis of this two-day debate, we are even more convinced that the interpretation was right, that it also hit fertile ground, the debate has developed, and we are therefore assessing that it was highly reasoned and that the Minister's answers have not been convinced. They did not in any way argue these arguments, with which the Minister flatly rejected the uncomplicated interpretations. We estimate that the answers have not convinced the applicants, and I hope that the majority of Members and Members of the National Assembly as well. That is why I am sure that this debate will somehow achieve the objective and purpose, and this is that we will get in Slovenia at the Ministry of Environment and Space at the head of the more responsible person and, of course, a man who knows and wants to comply with the regulations and relevant environmental policy that will guide Slovenia in some developmental direction. We therefore appeal here also to others who have not supported or who are not signatories to the interpretation that this debate may be their basis for voting, and, of course, to support the interpolation and thus the discharge of the Minister for Environment and Space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, the interpellation's proponents demand that, after the discussion on the interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the minister, the Minister vote on the non-trust of the Minister of Environment and Space. The vote on non-trust is public. Under the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust is expressed to the Minister if it is voted for by the majority of all Members. This is 46 or more Members. If the non-trustee has been voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, gives an untrustworthy statement to the Minister for Environment and Space, mag. Janez the Ripper. We will vote on this proposal for a decision. I put this proposal to the vote. 81 Members and Members are present. 28 voted in favour and 43 against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I find that the Minister for Environment and Space, mag. Janez Kopach, there was no vote of no confidence. I hereby conclude this agenda item and today's session. We will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m., with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, and then with the 9th item of the agenda and then on the agenda. Thank you so much and good night.
