ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will proceed with the adjourned 17th session. Although I am informed that there has been a traffic jam on the highway from Stajerska v Ljubljana, I do not think this will have a significant impact on the start of the 17th regular meeting. This is before the end, and I think we're going to finish it today. Can you insert the cards into the voting devices so that we can at least have close control of our presence? There's not enough of us right now to continue the adjourned session. All colleagues and colleagues from the offices and lobby, please come to the hall. I kindly ask my esteemed colleagues and colleagues for their attention. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Before that, I inform you that some of my colleagues are absent today. Let me read those who apologized: colleague Školč, Vučko, colleague Pavlinič Krebs, colleague Merlo, Jakič, colleague Orazem, colleague Partljič, Bozič, until 11:00 will not be a colleague of Kavčič; for the whole day he apologized to his colleague Fabjan, colleague Podobnik, at the beginning of the meeting there will be no colleague of Trofenik and colleague Malovrej; the colleagues of Kebric, Pohorec, Germić, Kremžar, Kramberger and Kangler apologized for the beginning of the meeting. So, these are the colleagues and colleagues who apologized for today. Now, I'm going to ask you to find out if there's a presence in the hall. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. There are 46 colleagues and colleagues present, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. We're Wednesday 29th. A/ agenda items, i.e. when considering the Proposal for a Law amending the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act. Let me remind you that the representatives of the parliamentary groups have already presented the views of the parliamentary groups. Before concluding, I asked if anyone else wanted to participate in the general debate. I don't know if he wanted a word. He wanted a word. Comrade Petty Officer has a word and five minutes for her. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think that there are a few more words to be said with regard to the adoption of this law. Probably and certainly so that we don't get anything like what happened to us six months ago - or at least I think it's about as much - as the amendment to this law was adopted. And it was accepted at least by the ruling coalition with approval and enthusiasm. At the time, we noted that these changes she proposed were problematic and problematic in terms of accessibility, in terms of the equality of insurers, but it was like bob against a wall. There was nothing "turn." Given that the media did not respond adequately in the first act, we have also called a press conference, where we have said what will happen in the most sensitive categories that require the most demanding health services to be the problem of transport, with payment. The same was true of funerals and postmortems. If people pay in the health system, why do they not have these rights, why is some of them suspended? And that's what happened. See what the government says in explanation when we put the same system back together as we had a year ago and even less. The proposed amendments will create a condition for equal access to the most demanding health services, restore equality and the principle of social justice, which also applies to the right to funerals and funerals. Colleagues and colleagues, this means that what you accepted half a year ago means that you have exercised inequality and unequal accessibility. That makes sense. That's what happened. And that's true, now you admit it. And we warned you then: Don’t trip because this is not a suitable principle for regulating an area or system that is large. It has a very strong influence on citizens. On that elemental thing; health. And it's not about some marginal things, it's about the most demanding health services. The second thing to be touched is Article 15 or Article 1 of the Law when the medical service within the military is changed or abolished. From the recruitment report we received in the National Assembly, we were informed how the health status of recruits is changing. What a big part of the rash. We also took note of statistics on births in Slovenia. That we experienced one -- not one, but the lowest number, as far as births are concerned. 17,500 in the last year. What kind of army are we going to have if we don't take care of it? As far as demographic policy is concerned, the ruling coalition has already put its hands off, and now as far as health insurance is concerned. Have any comparative studies been made regarding the regulation of health care in the military service, the peace-keeping service, and the consequences of this on the health status of recruits, military bonds for the peace-keeping period? We know that in certain cases, in terms of accidents, the military can also cooperate. So, I'm gonna finish this presentation. So in one piece, we're getting into the same old situation, and the new one, in one part, it's problematic again. However, we agree on the placement of medicinal products on this priority list. Therefore, it would be worth reconsidering this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. Do any other Members or Members want a word? She's a colleague of Simsich's. He also asked Dr. Keber to speak. And I would give it to the Minister at the end, including the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would like to respond to Mr Drobnic's debate. First, I should carefully read the explanation why the applicants propose the return of travel costs, funeral and post-mortem expenses to the previous situation, and nowhere is it stated and, of course, is not in line with the fact that, for this reason, those who need the most demanding health services are at risk. It is true, however, that some solutions have led to a decrease in accessibility for some of the most vulnerable groups. Here, especially the affected children and the elderly, this is true. At the same time, there's something else I'd like to say. If he reads the explanation and listened to the explanation in the amendment of the law last December, he will of course find that the proposed changes that the ruling coalition did not accept in any way with joy and enthusiasm, but rather a rather difficult debate and coordination with the health insurance institution, that it was, in fact, on the proposal of the insurance company to resolve some of the difficulties in the insurance company. I am firmly convinced, but I think I share the opinion of other applicants too, that if it is found that a solution that has been designed rather well-intentionally and with the aim of not causing injustices, but in the system of social rights, within health care, find some distinction and also find some social criteria; if it is found that this solution has unfortunately not been the best, then I see no reason why we should insist on not the best solution. But it seems only logical to me that today we have this change of law that regulates the situation differently, which will be more user-friendly and insurance-friendly. With regard to the insurance of recruits, a representative of the Ministry of Defence will probably be able to respond more, as we have put this provision on the table of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Defence. But I must say that I am firmly convinced that it is right that we have one health system in this country, which is not very large. And not to repeat the mistake that was in the previous country when we had a country within the health system in the country, it was the health system of the Yugoslav People's Army. And there's something else. It seems to me that we really can't put together this novel of law and put all this novelty, such as, for example, demographic policy and other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u5	Can I give the Minister a word? Excuse me? My friend Jerovšek wants it. Excuse me. I didn't see you. I give you my word first. Comrade Jerovšek, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal of this law, tabled by Members of the ruling coalition, well illustrates the social sense of the ruling coalition. The same access to the most demanding health services was abolished six months ago. And you did it consciously. You've calculated that people who just come from remote places who, as a rule, have less rights and less opportunities will not react. So you can cover this from the public and from the world. Not only that! The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has also been violated, under which the signatory countries must ensure the highest possible level of health care for children. And this does not relieve you, fellow proponents and the ruling coalition of the responsibility you have committed. You had a minister, and you have a social minister. And yet this has happened: such radical interventions, such a radical increase in inequality! Although the Slovenian Constitution has articles which guarantee Slovenian citizens that at least before the law and in their rights are in principle equal. We know they're not equal, but in principle. And you consciously decided to violate the principle of equality. Why didn't you go to the health care facility and the disinfectant at the clinical center at the time, Mr. Minister? Why didn't you start saving at the time? These many corruption issues, which have recently been in the newspapers, would not be more justified to save on those sectors where corruption is prevented - and I am sure that there are still such cases in Slovenian health care. Then double prescription medication! None of these guys tried to basically prevent you from doing that, you had to be warned by the media, exposed to the media, otherwise things would go on. At any given time, however, you are ready to wipe out the poor person from the periphery somewhere in Slovenia; you do not regret it, even if he dies in distress, even if he does not have the required health care, so no one will know about it. That doesn't do us any political harm, that's your political logic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u7	Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u8	Sorry, that's right. And you have exposed yourself, but this is a reflection of the actual policy, of the actual coalition policy in this country, and so it is not only in this health field - in many other areas. That's the way it is in energy, so it's in regional development and everywhere. You're referring solely to privileges. You've forgotten about a little man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u9	Comrade Petty Officer has a replica of the performance of colleague Simšičova. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u10	I would like to refer to my colleague Simšič when she claimed that those from the periphery were still able to provide services or access health services. No, no, no. You know, it's hard to get a ride three times or four times a month in emergencies - we know which are the most demanding - and pay for our own transportation. By the way, let me mention that this has also happened with public transport for students and students. The Diaic ticket from Ribnica to Ljubljana costs over 30,000 per month. This is a direct impossibility of people to access these services at all or if they have any assets to sell, because this is actually a health problem that is not unique, these are usually chronic problems; we know what these are, long-term treatment and long-term visits to the centre, various centres. Then this is a direct denial of access to health services. That's when we said it. In this case, however, let me also touch on the damage caused to those who could not reach these services at that time. Who Takes the Responsibility? Or is it then at the expense of the citizens, because of the reckless move and the government, which in some sense also seduced the national assembly and the national assembly. The one who just decided to do these things. This is not the case - the matter is not so simple when it comes to emergency health services. However, as I have already pointed out, with regard to the fact that post-mortems and funerals are abolished for one good part of the insured - completely, although paid in the health system, it is unacceptable in terms of equality and insurance. However, it has not yet established those in this law that would prevent the abuse of these services. However, this has already been pointed out in the previous session, and this has not yet been discovered by the government or suggested appropriate mechanisms to avoid abuse. Otherwise, I agree with the proposal to put things back together.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you very much. My friend Brenčič wanted a word and he's giving it up. Then I can give my word to the representatives of the government. First to the Minister, Dr. Kebra. You have the floor, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members. The debate that I am listening to today gives me the opportunity to say a few brief words about how in health policy we are aware that there is a hole in the health system that is worth more than 10 billion and that, of course, with more effort: from looking at individual rights again, to looking for new resources in front of you, and including looking for existing mistakes - if you want to talk about corruption or ineffective spending of money in this area - we are trying to do a lot and a lot of it you have heard, much of it will still be heard. But it's gonna take all three of us. One measure alone will not solve the increasingly open scissors between needs and the opportunities we have for resources. Therefore, between the existing rights, the so-called social rights group was one of the least controversial in previous discussions and also in the coalition contract, in order to save some in this area so that they could have more health rights. The solution that we have proposed - let me still remind those who say: multimodal transports, the law, this last novel, which we are now changing, talked about the first transport every month. And secondly, it was not an emergency transport, because emergency transports are, of course, tied to ambulances, not conventional transports, to other transports. But let me say, even the solution that we are now going back to and which has been in force before is not completely without consequences for those who live far away. Because the health insurance office for each first transport rips off 2 grand. And he shall pluck them from far places, and not from those that dwell in great places. We've been living in this system for years. But that's right or wrong, I leave it to others. But here is the fundamental question of whether it is more unequal to live somewhere other than in large places and how unequal it is, of course, from this birth in the field of education, employment and all the other rights that citizens find more difficult to come to if they live in regions and not in centres, but nevertheless - but I will not make a big lecture out of this - when we talk about this more, we will find that there are also advantages for those who live outside the centres and that perhaps those advantages are also expressed in money. In short, we are returning to a system where an individual citizen will pay 2,000 for the first transport. Our solution, which proved to be unacceptable, especially among humans, was, of course, the whole first transport, from wherever it was, to be torn away or not recognized. Allow - and this would also end this debate. In the systemic legislation that we will submit to Parliament this year, we will reopen these dilemmas. We have orders from patients we can't give them money for drugs. For some emergency interventions where waiting times are involved - there is also inequality. We also note in this area that some citizens are easier to reach than others and that some are more waiting than others. The answer I have heard from a Member that this can be settled by law is only to be written by a better law, and then the sky is, as has been said, an abuse of services, of course, naive in my opinion. If that were possible, then there would be no theft, no crime, because everything would be settled and all would be drained of honey and milk. So let me say: in a way, we will have to reopen issues between opportunities and between rights in the future. We're going to have to reduce some rights. I agree with all those who say that they must be restricted in such a way that all citizens are equally affected. And I agree that in terms of the financial withdrawal, as proposed, it has proved that some are more affected than others. But I want to say that in many areas, especially because of the fact that we do not all live in capitals or centres, we have some less opportunities. In short, we're bringing the thing back, not because it would have been a terrible mistake, but because it wasn't accepted. But from the public. But this same public – and we also get to know it, even in other ways, not only in Parliament – is, of course, increasingly aware of the fact that some health rights cannot be introduced and that some other citizens have them, but with us it is dry, because our income on citizens is twice or more smaller than elsewhere. Allow me, because then the Secretary of State for Defence will give more details about the insurance, but I say I don't know, maybe it's a misunderstanding. Up until now, the soldiers have been dealt with inequityly. So far it has been: to become a soldier, to be unprotected, which is incompatible with the fundamental concept. Every citizen in this country has a right - we have inherited it as a tradition - and we have only eliminated the situation by which some citizens are not insured. Just wrong! This makes them more involved in the public health system than ever before, and all the possibilities and all the health rights they have will still have to a far greater extent. Why to a much greater extent? As the Ministry of Defence will not wonder whether this year it has planned a sufficient amount of resources in case one soldier gets sick in a special way and is able to spend a quarter of the health budget for the Ministry of Defence. In short, the Ministry of Defence has resolved individual costs, has become the so-called employer who pays the contribution, compulsory contribution, for health care, as well as other employers and employees pay their contributions or we all pay to have their compulsory health insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary of State of Bogotai, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u14	Undersecretary of State. Mr President, as the Minister says, this amendment to the law is positive in terms of regulating the health insurance of military bonds during military service. With this now that this is one part of solving the problem of military health care. In fact, after the establishment of the Slovenian military organisation, the establishment of the Ministry of Defence organization, in the first, early 1990s, the health insurance of citizens during the service, the replacement civil service, but for various reasons, no health insurance was arranged for military taxpayers during military service or for those who are trained to work in the police reserve. The Health Service of the Ministry of Defence was organized, and in the military, the Emergency Service. In order to address this duality, a large-scale study was carried out in 2000, which was also intersectorally coordinated between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. This is a good thing for the Member of Parliament, Dr Cukjati, to remember who has been involved in coordinating these solutions. One of the proposed solutions to this whole study was the regulation of this problem, which is now in this law. At that time, in this laboratory or in the conclusions of the studies, it was found that military sanitation in the military and health services of the Ministry should be combined into a uniform military health service in the composition of the Slovenian Army. This was done in 1991, but it was also formally confirmed by the amendments to the Defence Act that you adopted recently in this assembly. There, during military service, special, not sanitary, but military health care. The entire cost of health care for military bonds during military service has so far been borne by the Ministry or by the military itself. With the transition to the compulsory insurance system, the Ministry, as the minister says, will pay this contribution to compulsory insurance, will be granted at the second stop to doctors employed in the military health service, a certain number of concessions, but for this number of military bonds, and will provide this provision. This does not mean the abolition of the military health service, but only its subsequent or further segment in its further regulation, the regulation of its status. Military health care will thus be linked to the entire public health system. A certain number of concessions will be obtained as stated. Doctors in the military health service will be able to issue prescriptions and, similarly, supply supplies within these 18 military barracks where the ambulances of the military health service operate, monitor the army when it is on the ground, and so on. We are solving this problem for about 10,000 military taxpayers in this year, in the coming year and in 2004, while we are solving this for the back-up team by 2010, given the anticipated changes in the completion system, long-term and long-term resolution for the entire professional composition of the Slovenian army, as foreseen by the development documents. Therefore, we also propose, from the point of view of the Ministry of Defence, as stated in the Government's view, that the assembly amend this law and, of course, adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u15	Anyone else want a word before the general discussion? [[He does.]] First, colleague Jerovšek, behind him colleague Drobnic and colleague Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for his unfettered frankness when he said why they are returning to the previous solution. You said, "We're coming back because it wasn't accepted by the public." That's an interesting answer. Not because the former law violated the principle of equal rights before the law and disregarding the principle of social justice, but because the category, which is somehow within the Ministry, within the coalition was considered to be capable of saving more than 10 billion in their backs. And because it was taken into account, also likely, in the preparation of that law, that the affected individuals would react in accordance with Cankar's river "the back is bent, the whip is willing and desired" and that they would not react. However, because they have responded, of course, you can see that you are only reacting to the public - and just thinking about it, of course to the elections and so on - but there is no willingness, I see, within the Ministry and within the government, that a hole in health policy, worth more than 10 billion, would be resolved where to resolve that, where uncontrolled leakage would be avoided, the criminal outflow of these hundreds of millions of money. I've given some examples. But this is the tip of the iceberg, as always. It's just the tip of the iceberg! There must be a hole in the health policy, in the health treasury. Those who are in these institutions - the health care institution - we know some who are exposed to all of your electoral conventions in the first kinds, where money flows, where it goes from the state treasury to customer needs, there should be saved. I ask, of course, Mr Minister, whether because of all this - who will take political responsibility for, as you acknowledged in your explanation, ignoring the principle of social justice and equal rights before the law. It's two constitutional rights that have been knowingly violated. I have to ask a question of political responsibility and I also want an answer to who is ready to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer now has the floor. Behind him, Comrade Petan, I see he does. These are replicas. It's available for five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u18	I would continue where my colleague Jerovšek left off. To me, of course, the question arises, whose claim is then valid, whether what Mr Minister has answered has been demented, has been written down by the proponents: Mr Borut Pahor, Danica Simšič, Silva Črnugelj, Sonja Areh Lavrič and Sašo Pece. This doctrine, written in the explanation of the law, apparently holds. And these are very, I will say, clear, firm and firm words: equal accessibility, equality and the principle of social justice. These are among the most fundamental components of social life and life in accordance with the Constitution. The minister went over them. It's interesting not to hear from the applicants. I don't know if the proponents were serious about this dictatorship, because it's clear. The explanation is very clear. Where's the answer here now? He's not here. The plot! You know, Minister, I welcome some things in terms of the responsibility of managing the health system. I expect, of course, other things, what I mentioned in the debate six months ago, what will happen to the rationalisation of the network of institutions, health services. There's a lot to save. But in this case, it's completely different. Obviously, you come up with proposals that are obviously not well thought out enough. Even though you are vehement in your explanations, you try to be professional, but your suggestions fail. And we have found that in at least two laws: the referendum and this time in this law. Now, if you have a clear mind, then you don't have a good team. Then you do not sufficiently analyse the causes and consequences and proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u19	Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So I think that this law raises certain questions, or perhaps even I can say that once more, a certain situation has proved to be prevailing with us at this time. In fact, first of all, I would like to say that we are changing this law more than six months ago. It is said that he has not lived well, or he has just come to life - or perhaps not even lived - and immediately there have been shortcomings, mistakes, irregularities or - if you want - inequalities between insured persons, as said by one of the applicants. Which means that our arguments, the opposition, at the time, had not achieved anything, had not been taken into account, had been arrogantly rejected. Because what we are saying on this page today is what we said at the time. And we're not generals after the battle today, but we've already said all that and we've been very specific about what's going to happen. And I'm going to quote: this puts us in inequality between insured persons. That's what we were saying! But we were elegantly over-voted: what can you do, how many of you there are? You can tell, but the caravan's moving on. That was said at the time. And this isn't the first time. The arguments, even if they were so good, well-founded, justified, they were nothing. And second. It is not the first time that the government leaves some mistakes to Members again. Last week we had an income law - a completely identical story. The government sent a Member to the fire at the time, and today there was a case of several Members. However, if the second case is that it is not true that the government sends Members, that Members have found that it was indeed a mistake, it would at first appear to be a welcome, but because these are about those Members who then rejected the opposition's arguments that this would happen, they are grateful that this has happened, but it is not good. What I'm trying to say is that, lately, in Parliament, it has happened to us that it is Members of the ruling coalition who have repeatedly disputed with their government. But here I am thinking of Mrs Simšič's words - this is not exclusively true for her, but she has just volunteered as one of the proponents to not take this as a personal matter, but like all those who have supported this law at the time, that it was said that it was on the proposal of the insurance company and that this was done with a heavy heart. It would seem more normal to me if it were said that this was on a proposal from the government, because it seems normal to me that the ruling coalition supports the government, but not that an institution is under the control of the government. Now I am returning to what I said a little earlier, that the ruling coalition has repeatedly been defiling its government in recent times, and I must admit that sometimes the government's solutions are better than those that then come out than the individual Members' proposals. This is just one thing, almost every day in Slovenian politics, that sometimes the government's proposals, which are not exactly the best, but are still better than those proposed by some ruling coalitions, that we should essentially support the government in the opposition if we are to get as many normal solutions as we want. And to return to this inequality that was established by this amendment of the law that is now in force. I am sure that if one of the Slovenian diaries did not publicize the whole thing, especially in Prekmurje and in Styria, and directly asked those Members who were from this end, how they behaved at the time of accepting that this equality would probably even remain. But luckily, it happened that the public found out a little more about this, who also helped it, and then, of course, the excuses were "I wasn't in the hall", "I wasn't very careful", "we believed" and so on. That is to say, if the public is distracted, there is likely to be a change. I will support this change in all elements, in the original and in this additional part, when it comes also to this part that solves defence issues. I'll support it because I think, say, it's good. Especially the first part when we establish equality between insured persons. However, I think that such a way of saving when the opposition is in fact disregarded and ignored is not good. And let this be a good example so that sometimes even in the ruling coalition we might have a feeling [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] - I conclude immediately - that all our arguments are not so bad! That they're not that bad. Here's one of those cases where it turned out. After all, if this has been determined by the motioners of this law, that this is the case, then - fine. But it's not a good thing. I will support this, and it is also like an explanation of vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u21	Colleague Simsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you very much again for your word. First, perhaps an explanation to Mr Petan, when I first said how the amendment of this law had taken place - I will make it even more clear. The insurance company was in trouble. She came to the competent ministry. The competent ministry discussed this with coalition partners, including Members and Members. I will make it even more clear that these discussions were neither easy nor friendly for the insurance company nor for the Ministry, nor for us, Members and Members. We had a lot of questions, a lot of concerns, and also a lot of dilemmas to which the insurance company then answered us, as we were told. Maybe it really was our mistake to simply believe that the mechanisms of calculation are what they were giving us there. But please, gentlemen of the opposition! I'm glad you'll support this marriage. However, I do not understand your thesis that the law should not be reformed and that the government and the government Members should not correct it, but even after six months, given that people want it and that they have proved that the law has had different effects than the proponents have wanted and planned. I think that this is good and that it is not good to address people only when we demand answers to referendum questions, but also in such cases when individuals or groups are in distress for some solution. And if you want to move on. There are social rights in the healthcare system, and I believe that you will also agree that the funeral, the post-mortem, the reimbursement of travel costs are also social rights. And when they explained that, of course, it is also probably right to consider that those who earn better, who have a better social situation, but have a smaller share of these social rights, so that a greater share can be allocated to those who are in a worse social situation, we have listened to it. Unfortunately, especially for remote people, those who live far away have shown that this is not the case and that is why this correction is here. And this correction is not here because the government would abuse Members and Members. This amendment is included in the amendment of this law only because the original proposal was tabled in 2000 - Mr Jerovšek, 2000, you asked earlier how to make it so quickly - and the change proposed was: free medicines for children also from the intermediate list. And since this law was the first in line on the agenda, then we included these changes, as I initially explained in the explanation. And that's all this is about. And I suggest, if possible, if we have found a common language here, that this point should be corrected to do so. And there is no desire, neither the promotion of anyone, nor the destruction of your opinions or opinions, but here we come together, and it is right to call it that. And it is right, I propose that we also vote on these solutions as proposed if we agree with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you very much. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So, I would like to respond with a replica of the implementation of the Minister and I would like to tell him the following. It seems to me, Mr. Minister, that in some cases you decide quite quickly. You don't listen to enough arguments. I'd say you're making more political decisions than professional ones. And in this change, you have certainly made this decision. See, to reduce social rights at the expense of health rights means already an additionally affected socially weaker layer in our society. And that was actually what happened with this law, when we fixed it six months ago or now. Since I've known you as Minister, in this House you've always talked about financial problems and you've been predicting where there's going to be something else to reduce or what needs to be increased in order for the medical treasury to become fuller. However, I have not yet heard you perform before the National Assembly and say that you will change anything in the organization of Slovenian health care. I can honestly tell you that this Slovenian health care is well organised for healthy people, but when people are sick, then they run into a hell of a lot of trouble. Mostly people who live in remote places. I don't know when you're going to make a change so we won't have this Slovenian health hymer, if I say so myself. In the hospital, when people order, they send them directly: go, if you have enough resources, and get help in the private sector. Because to do some analysis, some investigations in this state health care - yes, by this time there are many people who can actually crash, these processes are taking so long. What will you do to change this organization? So you, Mr Minister, should tell us once before this National Assembly what your policy is in this area, but not just keep telling us what you will reduce and how the contribution rate will increase to make enough money. I think this should be done first and then start talking about financial problems. As for the candidates, Mrs Danica Simšič, I understand your interview on Slovenian television last week differently. So you didn't say as a proponent: we're fixing something that we missed six months ago. No, you, as a socially sensitive Member, have now put yourself in the position of proposing that you give something to the Slovenes and Slovenes in this system - not that you give back to them, but that they have already had it. But we are fighting, Members, for you, especially us from the United List, and we will now change this law so that you will have these rights again. So this interview in the media was presented. And, of course, you can expect the opposition to respond to such and similar matters. Of course, if, six months ago, we explained to you in this national assembly without any hope of success that it was not good, that it was reckless, and that you would correct the matter more or less. This is not how we would tell you if it were not the x cases at this time in this House. You're not ready to listen to any arguments! By means of the voting machine, you reach your goal and then, if I say so, the media will cover your action in such a way that they will show you as those who are still for the people and for the citizens. It's not like that. So, I apologize for that, but you need to hear from the Members' mouth the comments that are weighty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I have six reported replicas. First, my colleague, Montenegro, would like to speak to Dr. Keber and then Dr. Bayuk, colleague Petan, Jerovšek and Kelemina. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not going to repeat this because my colleague, Danica Simšič, has already said everything well enough. But in fact, colleague Petan, I don't understand. You say, "it's commendable, but it's not good," but then you finally said that you would support this amendment of the law or the proposed amendments. I know - for at least a year and a half I am in this National Assembly, and you have gone a little further, because you have been in the past mandate - you have probably already been in a lot of law that was passed in the National Assembly, and you have also gone into changes and additions, because practice has shown that it is not good and similar. But I don't understand why one mistake or reckless action that is, in this way, to brand and show that it's not good to make a mistake. But you know, everybody makes mistakes. Everyone, I mean also, but you know, practice shows its own; returning to its original state, it's perfectly normal. And if the fellow Members find that and if the ministry is so mature and responsible as to agree to rectify all this, I think it gives this one good act, not an act that needs to be branded even more differently. Because in this National Assembly we will have the opportunity - and countless - not only this law, but many others to repair, surely. We'll have the first in the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u27	The list of applicants is getting longer. I would just like to point out that we are considering a proposal for a law amending the law to a basic law that is now repeatedly under discussion. So I invite you to stick to that. Minister, Dr. Keber has the floor, and after him, as it were, five Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Perhaps even the pages that use words that are personally too powerful for me: correcting a mistake, correcting an inequality, say the following. Of course, we eliminate or increase, slightly increase some equality, but by doing so we create and maintain new inequalities. In any case, the debate on health insurance rights is a beautiful topic that we can talk about all day. I want to say that when we wanted to make a quick move - and if I were to talk about a mistake, I would only talk about the speed of the procedure. The speed of the process was needed because it is ahead of us - and still a gap in this year and because of this hole, when we have already granted 5 billion new health rights in the health world, we do not have this money. Some new medications are waiting. Some of the new procedures are waiting. We will also be happy to try to change the organisation, by the way, in this national assembly, especially in the committee, we have already pictured how we are imagining and we will be happy to present the entire national assembly when it announces such a point. I will gladly come to tell you how we imagine to regulate health policy at a time when the demands of our population demand health rights as in Germany, but we have three times less money. And within this package we have to do one thing - the moment we take away an old right, we do wrong to those who have had it so far. But let me ask you a question. Are citizens really guilty of having so-called expensive disease? And if it's expensive, they've been waiting for her for two years. And in the meantime, they could die. Having a low-priced disease means getting right on time. Isn't it a fundamental problem in healthcare to have waiting periods? It's a fundamental inequality. Therefore, within the framework of the responsibility that we have to propose - and that is what all governments and countries around the world are doing - weigh within the framework of a package whose rights they would reduce, which rights would be reintroduced. They weigh and sometimes when the public responds - that is why I stress the public - the public wants this right to continue. When we propose to close some departments that are ineffective in the future, if we do not propose, we will be criticised. If we propose, the public, almost confidently, will offer resistance in that region. And in the end, the balance is going to be the political balance that will win, some kind of public reflection. We have found that the public, regardless of whether they are under-informed, wants to have the right back, which many countries do not have: travel costs, funerals, post-mortems or social rights. If we are in advance about any proposal for a right that may be a little less important as regards health care - let me just say a little less. And if we say, "No, it has to stay, it stays unchanged," then we will only add new rights to the top. Then we have a much smaller option to properly address health problems. And so, no matter how much I know that this answer will open up new and new questions, let me say: Inequality in healthcare is the main thing in health, in health rights, in treatment rights. When we have to decide to bring a new drug to our citizens only two years later than elsewhere in the world, we do. You can also bring these questions to this House. So we can only write one -- I think -- the right to travel costs, which is a social right that we -- by the way, let me explain -- initially wanted to define socially. We had planned articles on how to leave it entirely to the most endangered categories of this population, and then it turned out that this time we have not yet developed an adequate record of who is poor enough in this society and wants to admit that it is poor enough to be paid in full. Since this would be the right answer: to have social rights, it must also be placed in social criteria and recognised to those who deserve it most. But we bumped into insurance theorists who said "in insurance is every right in full, all those who pay insurance" - let me say again because I'm not a specialist - that foreign insurance theorists said that this is not true, that it would also be possible to define such rights socially. But now I'm interfering with a broader debate on my own. You will not accept this because it is a fine opportunity for the public to show you taking rights or adding rights. But I want you to know that we have a package of health rights that weighs 5 billion. There's a loss in front of us. You can tell how many tenths of a billion we need to find. And we will try, including with your help, to support the appropriate proposals when they come. But certainly, in time - nothing. There's no way to do that in one month. And our people need new money this year. Not in the reform process we have foreseen. Let them even tell us we're going to reform too quickly. Today you are forced to hear that we are not reforming. We're doing reforms. We will also be happy to present it to Parliament, and we have already wanted it on a committee-by-committee basis, but at the same time we must also make so-called daily political moves. And if this one wasn't adopted, we're just returning it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u29	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Words, words, words. A lot of things can be explained and one way or another, it's nice to present the truth. Ladies and gentlemen of the great coalition, misinterpret your own mistakes and this is also the government. Of course, no one reminds you of the fact that you must not change your views, which reminds you of the fact that we discussed these things in this National Assembly and there was no hearing and now you are happy to say, we have convinced ourselves otherwise and we will fix it. Nice. We take these words to your attention and ask you today what is still very fresh in your memory that in this national assembly less than a week ago we warned the government, namely, Mr Prime Minister, what is happening to this fact that the Slovenian state does not fulfil its duty to the craftsmen's fund. Two billion tolars that were not to be seen in the final account in 2000, 2001 and not in the 2002 budget.The answer was that they were thinking about these things and that they would still think and that they had already decided to put this on the shoulders of the capital fund. And perfect silence, of course, not just that you can do it -- why you can do it. Since you do not really need to be answered, you still have a complaint in the Slovenian media that did not ask this question. But these are mistakes. The great mistakes of the Slovenian government, which already cost us 2 billion tolars today, and I hope that these beautiful words that we have heard today, how ready you are to correct these mistakes to hear this, this correction, when we consider the 2002 budget rebalancing. Ladies and gentlemen of the great coalition. The time of truth comes faster than we all imagine. There's been a lot of mistakes. It's a huge mistake. We haven't been able to warn you about anything yet. But we warn you about many of these mistakes, and it always falls into empty ears and empty heads. I'm sorry, your words, how ready you are to correct your mistakes, I can't take it seriously until I see that we're also going to make serious repairs on the first opportunity you'll have when we watch the 2002 budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u31	I am warning everyone on the subject. Comrade Petan now has the floor, followed by his colleague Jerovšek, Kelemina and Petnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So, I replicate the respectable colleagues on the other hand, like, I think they're both co-proposers, Mrs Crnuglev and Mrs Simšičev. I would say that it is not unusual if we support this proposal in the opposition. It would be unusual if we didn't support it, because we have been defending such views since, I don't know, three, four or five months ago, when we tried to prevent such a position from being adopted in the law now in force in such a context. That's why it's perfectly normal for us to support this. But it's something else. It's not about content, it's about how it came to this content. So when the arguments of the insurance company are about to prevail, maybe someone else, but now we're going back, it's saying that now the arguments of the insurance company will not apply, we can ask ourselves whether it's an insurance company or whoever it was - because it doesn't matter who's guilty now - he's making the right arguments and all the arguments. So obviously you've got the proponents in charge of the one who gave you these arguments. That's probably clear. I agree with Mrs Montenegro when it says that it is probably normal to find faults, irregularities or poor functioning, to change this and that it is not a sin to persist in mistakes. I agree with that, but I would also say that it's probably a sin, but if you don't accept the arguments, even if they come from the opposition, or if you don't accept the arguments that come from other thinkers, because that, I mean, is a mistake. And we're probably going to have to accept the content of the arguments slowly, not just politically. It's just one of the cases that points to that. However, I would like to draw attention to the essence of this problem. I agree that some austerity measures will probably be needed on this segment, that is probably clear. However, I think that the way and the place where we went about doing this is probably completely wrong. On this segment it turns to hundreds of billions - or I'd rather say that you won't tell me that I'm just thinking about spending, the negativeness of this issue - is available, which is good. However, if we want to save something, we need to tackle those amounts that are the highest. We have items where hundreds of billions are turning, and some where a few tens of millions are turning. And here, where we now wanted to save something, we're looking at a few ten million. And even if all of these few ten million are completely eliminated and saved, we have saved only a few ten million. But if we save only 1% on billions and billions of items, we'll save billions. So we have to save where there are huge amounts; there can be some smaller ones, and we can only save a lot of redistribution. But where there are small amounts, we can totally get rid of them, and we won't save much. That is to say, where we went to save at this point and in this way, it was wrong. That's what I wanted to say in my debate, and I didn't want to argue with the content, because I finally agree with it. And another problem arises on this segment. We have also discussed this on some other committees. This is about the fact that it is precisely on the top two items, this is health insurance and the pension register, that we have also been heard by the government that we do not actually have the right data on the debtors, so we are setting up two new agencies that will cover this particular segment in order to obtain data on the debtors. That's probably the biggest stash of those savings where we can "screw" something. Not that we're going to delete the items we've been drawing. We're back where I told you before, in the right places, we have to do savings. That's one thing. The other one, by the way. But it is also true that I also agree with this that some things that are otherwise difficult to solve, let us put on some big problem that has emerged, which is rather small items, but for some people is vital. That when we correct and establish the original situation, we can add something else to this law, and we will solve another problem that we may not otherwise be able to solve. I agree with that. And I'm gonna say it again. It is normal for us to support this proposal in the Social Democratic Party. It would be insane if we didn't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek. Then two more replicas, then we'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I repeat Mrs Simsic's thesis that we do not recognize the right of opposition Members to coalition government members to amend the law. In our performance, the claim was never the same as it was made, and that is why it is completely wrong. Of course, I am grateful to my colleague Sok, who interpreted or told me how they performed on television because I did not watch. There, apparently, and I believe Mr. Sok has been interpreted that way. You did not interpret, "we will correct the wrong social policy and health policy of the government". But you interpreted "we are a social, sensitive party and we are proposing a better social, sensitive solution". Although it is only a matter of returning to the right already acquired. This leads me to believe that this matter on your part is not a matter of principle. It's not really a matter of principle. But it's just political equilibristics and grotesque political hypocrisy. Mr. President! Since you are the first to sign, I must also refer to your inaugural speech when you said that you would advocate for more political culture in this House. This is obviously where I believed that this was connected, including with more political culture, if you join my request for a response to political responsibility. [[...]] If you write such a statement and put it there. In support of this, please state that it is a matter of ignoring the principle of social justice, of equal rights before the law and of violating the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Increasing political culture is essential. And that you also demand political responsibility, which the Minister avoids to answer the question. I hope that you will join my request for an answer, who will bear political responsibility for this matter. If you are not prepared for this, I repeat, it is a grotesque hypocrisy, a political equilibristic, and that this is entirely premeditated. Of course, we opposed such solutions when the law was adopted, and you argued otherwise. We could be politically blue. We'd have a political culture, we'd be honest, we'd be principled then. Now, with the help of the media, you've shown something as your gift to those. And Mrs. Silva Nigga. It wasn't a mistake. Now that's clear. It wasn't a mistake. And every mistake is, of course, possible and generally correctable. It was politics. "Take the weakest because he's supposed to scream the least." It was a small one, in a political account, a small mistake occurred because the oppressed had come forward and woken up. But it wasn't a mistake. It was a conscious policy of your government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you. Comrade Petty Officer and last on my list of colleagues Simšič. Please. First of all, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u36	Mr Minister, the Minister of Health and Government are responsible for the management of health policy. Now you can make excuses, even in this context, I can replicate to my colleague Simšič that the proposal may have been dealt with or conceived, I don't know, at the health insurance institution or in the insurance company. However, this does not help in any way. The Health Insurance Office and, of course, as an insurance company will present its solutions in the light of a harmonised balance sheet. The responsibility for managing health policy is, of course, in the country. So to the government to suggest how he imagines it. In this coalition system, there is a systemic error in this government. This system error is stated in the statement that everything proposed by the opposition will be rejected. You've written down your own conviction with this. So everything the opposition is going to say doesn't work. Even if it's solid and it's on the stand. Mistakes are forgiven. I forgive them. If they're made out of error, from the wrong information someone gave me or something. However, mistakes that you are aware of are not the real mistakes that he forgives. Such errors are subject to political responsibility, particularly in the political system and the parliamentary system. That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. As for closing hospitals, I'm not going to challenge you, Mr. Secretary. If this ensures the preservation of rights that are individual, pumping, if you rationalize costs, instead of heating and not knowing what else you are doing, and in this way you will provide in particular transport options, one part is also the subject of this law, service, wherever possible the most rational and at the same time accessible. I'm not going to deny this to you. I'm just waiting for your suggestion. For by shutting down a department, because it is completely irrational, and providing services elsewhere, you have fulfilled the obligation imposed by law. There's nothing yet about waiting periods. What it is is the cancer of our health system. The waiting days, the alternate silent system - if you are not satisfied with the health service, I have the address here and contact your private doctor. There is no pride here and this cannot be a public health system. Look, this systemic error that I'm talking about comes from the circumstances and complacency and this, under the terms of the great election result. It's your grave, it's your destiny. That is why the LDS Members, who I am monitoring, are reading newspapers, watching websites, they are not interested in this, because it is enshrined in the contract that everything the opposition proposes will be rejected. Thank you very much for doing this in the parliamentary system. I tell you honestly, I'm very disappointed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u37	My colleague Simšič and then my colleague Pozsonec, who was last reported on my list.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to the words of Mr Sok and Mr Jerovsk, who discussed what I should have said on some media. Mr Jerovšek, I propose that, in view of the way in which you have discussed it, you may give an initiative to set up a special commission of inquiry to find out what I have said to the public media. If you allow yourself to instill in my actions and my words the tone and content that you even had to read from the leaf, because you couldn't say it to your mouth, then I really suggest it. At the same time, I firmly assure you that what we have written in the amendments to the law, that I firmly believe in this, and in those proposals from 2000 and those that we have subsequently tabled. And if you think otherwise, of course you do. And I am fully aware of what I have ever said about any media in this law, and I have always said what I have said to you before, what I have said to Mr Petan, and what I have said in the opening debate. So we can be clear here. But if you have such a persecutor, then, please, you have mechanisms to keep working. At the same time, I will say again, if we really want to fix this marriage the way we want it to, then let us make it right. But you do everything else here, you start an interview for the minister, for the Prime Minister, you discuss the pension fund, the trust fund, only those provisions, which are in law and in amending the proposed law, not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u39	Some replicas again, first a colleague of Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I would like to get an answer to why it took so long to solve this acute problem. I raised the first question on this issue on 22 January, the second on 16 April and also on the colleges. Well, it's been months and months since the insurance company couldn't come to the checkup because they didn't have those 8 or 10,000 tolars. And I want to know who will be responsible for the interim period and for the time that has passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I think we're running out of content. I suggest we don't go to replicas that aren't related to content. Comrade Jerovšek has first word, after him colleague Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u42	Yes, I must answer Mrs Simsich because she denies the facts. I believe it hurts when we find out or expose that this law was not a political initiative, but a legitimate one, but a political crisis, and you did not answer that. And now I'm being convicted of harassment and on the basis of harassment, I'm supposed to be proposing the establishment of an investigative commission. I'm not proposing. I don't have any stalkers. Apparently, you have some persecution in your client so that with all the screams - you not only have an investigative commission on the media, the President of the RTV Supervisory Board - fight with all the screams for it, don't leave it to anyone else. The last time you said to one of the same MPs at the office, it was politically distasteful if someone's life was in the same position. And that doesn't seem politically distasteful to you in such an important place. Here's your stalker and media control.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u43	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u44	I'd like to replicate Mrs. Simsichev. So, dear colleague, we do not need to be asked to vote for this. That's how you're populism. What are you going to ask us to vote for this, but when you changed it, we opposed it. Back then, we warned you that this would not hold up and that it was going to be the political work of the great coalition. Now that you have identified and corrected the error proposed by the government and, of course, also take over as Members of your own, you warn and ask the opposition somehow to support this, I would like to say your generous offer to Slovenian citizens. Mrs Simšičeva, you can nod up or down, but this is the transfer of the highest metal. We don't need to be asked in the opposition. We will support this because we have already opposed this change. Look at the vote. You've supported all the isolated lists at the time with the LDS and together with the human client, this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u45	Anyone else want a word or can I close the general debate? I conclude the general debate. I would like to remind you that you have before you documents that are important for the vote, and the report of 18.6., today 26.6., additional amendments of the New Slovenia Group and colleagues Simšič were tabled. We'll take these into account when making our decisions. We will first vote on the procedural proposal to discuss and vote together on the articles to which the amendments have not been tabled, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. As you know, this decision will not be adopted if at least one third of those present oppose it. I am putting this motion to the vote. Please, we're voting. We are voting on a procedural proposal. This one's been adopted. Of the 58 present, 57 voted against, none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are in the work where we have a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. As we say, we will lead the debate and decision-making on the basis of the report and the additional amendments tabled. Who wants the word to Article 1 now? Here I warn you, we have an amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group and an amendment by the Committee. Please, anyone want a word? These two amendments are being ruled out. First, I will put to the vote the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. If this is accepted, it will mean that the other amendment is irrelevant. Okay. Then we'll vote. First, on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to delete Article 1. We're voting. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We're in the middle of a vote. 61 present, 15 for, 44 vs. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Thus, we can now move on to a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 1. We vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 1. Present 60, 52, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment of the committee has been adopted. We are voting on the whole article. We vote on the text of Article 1 in its entirety. 57 present, 50 for, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of Article 1 is adopted. Let's go to Article 2. I'm opening a debate on the amendment tabled. It's under the board's authority. Nobody wants a word. Okay. Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the Committee's proposal, the amendment of the Committee. We're voting. If adopted, this Article shall be amended in its entirety. 59 present, 56 for, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of Article 2 is adopted. We have a 13th article and an amendment to the committee has been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting him to the vote. 58 in attendance, 52 in, no in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I find that we have defined the text of Article 81 We have two amendments to Article 14. In addition, in the report, you have an amendment on a special document, an amendment to the amendment of the Health Committee. I'm putting both amendments to the debate. Colleague Simsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Just a brief explanation. The amendment to the amendment which introduces in the second sentence of the proposed amendment which defines the special health commission only who appoints it and is appointed by the Management Board of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute. This amendment has, in fact, emerged from the secretariat's subsequent warning and has no other additional substantive dimension. It's only about the appointment process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u47	Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I am putting to the vote an amendment to the amendment of the committee table tabled by Mrs Simšič. We're voting. 63 present, 54 for, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment was accepted. We can now vote on the proposal to amend the article as a whole. We vote on the proposal to amend Article 82 completely. 58 in attendance, 52 in, no in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] We have therefore decided to vote on Article 14. By Article 17, we have a proposal from the Committee. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. 59 present, 53 for, no against [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now we're talking about the whole article. We vote on the full text of the article. 50 present. 43 for, no one's against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We will now vote on those articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk about them? [[Nobody.]] Then we move on to the decision on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. We're voting. 62 present, 61 for, none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. There's no wish for a word. Then we'll decide on the title of the law. We're voting. The title of the law has been adopted. 60 in attendance, 57 in, no in. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] In the third reading, paragraphs 1, 2, 13, 14 and 17 are opened. I ask whether qualified applicants wish to table an amendment in the third reading. If not, I'm asking the secretariat if there's a problem with compliance. No, no, no. It's okay. Then we can go to a full vote on the law. Anybody want a word before that? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move to a full vote on the law. We're voting. 61 present, 60 for and none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. This concludes this agenda item. Moving on to the next one, 31. On a daily basis, this is the annual report of the Bank of Slovenia for the year 2001 and the annual accounts of the Bank of Slovenia for the year 2001. We have the Governor of the Bank with us. I welcome him. For the Bank has submitted material to the National Assembly and I ask if it wants a word. Mr. Governor, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Banka Slovenije submitted the annual report of Banka Slovenije together with the other documents, the final invoice and the financial plan, as stated by law. All these documents were also accepted by the World Bank of Slovenia. In this document, especially in the annual report Banka Slovenije shows or shows the business year 2001 from the point of view of the Bank of Slovenia’s monetary and exchange policy and the position of the banking and financial system. I would like to point out that the Bank of Slovenia, as a prime law, will also submit to Parliament by the end of August a report on the last year’s supervision, says, from the mid-summer to the end of this year’s half-year, in which details of the facts and findings on the performance of this function will be provided, that is, the role of supervisor in the banking system; we can also provide relevant information in the light of the latest developments in the banking system. The annual report by Banka Slovenije mainly identifies trends in macroeconomic trends in last year. In doing so, I would like to point out once again that the Bank of Slovenia has issued several other documents available to the public on the Bank of Slovenia’s websites, as well as in writing, analysing the events and, above all, deciding on the medium-term framework of its activities, which is important from the point of view of Slovenia’s entry into the European Union and also into the European monetary system. If I briefly summarize the report and, in the end, first of all, touch on the current economic and political direction of the Bank of Slovenia in the management of its policy, I would say the following. For last year, the economic environment, both in the world and at home, was particularly more turbulent than it had been before. This is said to have started a period of cooling down economic activity, which was already present at the beginning of the year, which has only exacerbated with known events since 11 September in the United States. This had a first effect on the cooling of the economic situation in the United States and, consequently, given the great commitment of the European Economic Area, this market also in the European economy. In this case, Slovenia is generally lagging behind in adapting to this situation from 6 to 9 months and this has proved to be at the end of the year or at the first quarter of this year, when economic activity in Slovenia is also significantly more modest than we used to in the previous period. Last year is also marked by the fact that the market for raw materials, especially oil, has seen a marked deterioration in the situation before. The price of oil has increased significantly, from about $15 to 17 dollars to $30 for a judge, which has resulted in a substantial increase in costs for both the world and for us. Above all, these were shocks, which can be called supply shocks, which have affected the reduced production and reduced income of those who are mainly dependent on this source of production or business. While, on the other hand, some other countries, such as Russia and some others, have significantly improved the situation fiscally and financially. Slovenia has gradually adapted to this situation in the international economic field. As you know, last year the balance-of-payments situation of the Slovenian economy was positive, which means that in Slovenia there was still a good export economy, which, despite the increased costs for raw materials, managed to keep the so-called balance-of-payments balance of payments leveled and thus significantly different from some other countries in Central and Eastern Europe, which, at some other better indicators than Slovenia, especially in inflation, showed a worse picture in the field of other macroeconomic categories. As I said, the balance of payments has remained stable, the fiscal part has deteriorated and, on the other hand, it is due, of course, to the adjustment of certain relative prices and fiscal measures in the field of excise duties, to the fact that there has been an increasing impact on the growth of domestic prices, in particular the price of living needs. This situation calmed down at the end of the year and unfortunately accelerated again at the beginning of this year. Last year’s monetary policy or foreign exchange exchange rate policy was followed mainly by one objective, namely, the calming of inflation in the country, both in the short and medium term, given that Slovenia is awaiting entry into the European Union and the European monetary system a little later. In doing so, it has tried such a combination of exchange rate policy and monetary policy to achieve a gradual decline in inflation and, on the other hand, not to promote those negative effects on overall economic stability that some other countries in Central Europe are witnessing. In doing so, I think in particular how inflation can be reduced very quickly, but at the same time to be subjected to relatively strong pressure for destabilisation, both the balance of payments and the fiscal sector, employment and growth. For example, in recent times, Poland has managed to reduce inflation dramatically from about 10% to around 3%, while at the same time it has lost a relatively strong balance in other areas of the balance of payments, the deficit is over 5% of the domestic product, the fiscal sector is about that much, unemployment is above 18% and economic growth has completely dwindled. For this reason, when we were preparing a paper on the medium-term direction of monetary policy until the entry into the European Union, the Bank of Slovenia and its Council decided between different alternatives. Above all, what combination of exchange rates and monetary policies should be chosen to achieve the necessary reduction in inflation. And this goal of lowering inflation is to reduce inflation, not only to lower it, but also to keep it stable at a level not greater than 4%, on the one hand, on the other hand, how to align this process of coordination of these inflation objectives with other areas of economic development, which makes it possible for inflation to be reduced in a sustainable manner. Some options were available. In this case, I'd like to tell you what they were like and why we're deciding on a world of banks for one of them. On the one hand, the option of a fixed exchange rate regime known by some countries in transition was, inter alia, Hungary, which has this advantage, that the exchange rate of the domestic currency is nominally fixed with a certain range of fluctuations and, of course, completely, I will say, release money policy from any operation because it is impossible to independently influence interest rates and the amount of money in circulation at the fixed rate. Such a policy has the advantage of allowing slightly faster import prices to fall because they are mainly under the influence of the exchange rate and, of course, this means that the country or economy is completely left entirely to pressure from the external environment, particularly those linked to speculative capital flows in or from a country which, of course, cannot be depreciated by a fixed rate. Indeed, there are so many powerful impacts, as well as the consequences on the real economy, which a small and open economy such as Slovenia cannot amortise in a short time. On the other hand, there is a possibility that some countries are also using. This is a completely free-flow course that Poland is using at this point, of course again, because the rate is moving according to market conditions, without the intervention of the central bank on the market, where the supply or demand for imbalances and vice versa, for example, in Poland there has been a markedly rapid decline in inflation with a very strong real and even nominal increase in the value of the domestic currency, on the other hand, resulting in a deterioration of both fiscal and balance of payments and a reduction in economic growth, i.e. stagnation. In this case, of course, the central bank has the full possibility of controlling monetary aggregates because it does not affect the foreign exchange rate. However, the consequences of such a way of operating monetary exchange policy are such that the exchange rate fluctuates too strongly or very strongly that the central bank does not or does not wish to influence it. Then it may be that the course fades beyond a long-term balanced course so that then there is a very long period when again trying to adjust to what is, of course, normal for the exchange rate in the long term. In this case, the real costs of this search for a new balance can be so great that they have significant negative effects on the economy. Some of this can now be seen in Poland in recent times, when they can no longer balance both the balance of payments and the fiscal sector and when they have serious difficulties in reviving economic activity, just before joining the European Union, which, of course, also means certain additional poor conditions for integration into this relationship when some other conditions become fixed. Finally, it is worth stressing that there is still a third option, and this is the possibility of a combination, both of exchange rates and of monetary policies or of interest rates, whereby the central bank wishes to regulate these categories simultaneously by reducing inflation. This, of course, means that monetary policy can influence inflation or price growth in the part where prices are marketed, where, through market demand, the central bank can influence the extent of credit activity, over the extent of credit activity to the extent of demand and thus, of course, have an impact on prices. If there is pressure on price increases from the cost area, in particular fiscal or administrative regulated price areas, in that case the operation of the central bank or monetary policy would be in the direction of further limiting demand. And if this demand is as low as it has been in Slovenia lately, of course they would not in themselves achieve those effects that are both theoretically and practically written. Of course, the Bank of Slovenia, when deciding on this spring pressure on price growth, which was mainly due to fiscal and administrative reasons for the need to act, in the direction of increasing interest rates or additional appreciation of the rate, decided not to take action in this direction and to follow, in particular, those events on the market that would indicate whether the recovery of economic activity would potentially have an impact on the increase in demand and the increased pressure on free-formed prices. At this point, we can see that free-formed prices are very stable. They're moving at about 5 percent. And that the growth that took place this year was, hopefully, unique or temporary. Additional inflation reductions are expected in the coming months. And we are still at the goal or price that we have also presented to the world for confirmation and have also received that it is possible to reduce inflation to 4% by the end of the year. And also around these percentages stabilize it in the coming period. Last comment - on integration into the European Union and into the European monetary system. With regard to the integration into the European Union of monetary policy views and the Bank of Slovenia, there is no open question. Following the adoption of the Banka Slovenije Act, which you confirmed in Parliament a while ago, the situation with the directives and the Statute of the European Central Bank is also formally dealt with. The law will enter into force in individual areas gradually, as Slovenia will also be involved in these integrations. As regards integration into the European monetary system, it is in fact very unclear at this point when and under what conditions this inclusion will be possible. Some 3 to 5 years of the transitional period after integration into the European Union are discussed, and it depends in particular on the decision of the European Central Bank and the Member States of the European Monetary Union when the new members of the European Union will be given this opportunity to join. The precondition is, of course, the fulfilment of the so-called Maastricht criteria and, as has been increasingly mentioned recently, the convergence with the economic situation in the European Union. This means an approximation of the average economic or economic development of the European Union. Here Slovenia is at the forefront and for this reason it is not expected that there could be a longer period in the waiting room than some other countries in association. With regard to the situation in the banking market, it is only normal in the last year that the banking system, in all the events to which we have witnessed from privatisation to consolidation, has developed normally, with results reaching the expected levels, both profits and some other categories, that the interest rate is declining rapidly in the last year, that this also affects the need for greater integration and consolidation of certain banking institutions, due to narrowing the possibility of achieving greater income, and that the problems that have recently arisen in the tighter segment of the banking or non-bank sector are the savings and credit services, mainly due to inadequate adjustment of these services to the statutory provisions adopted by Parliament in the Banking Act in 1999. Banka Slovenije obtained permission to control them with a final account in 2001. These checks have also been carried out expeditiously for more than 6 months. In addition to the event we witnessed a few days ago, the Bank of Slovenia was also in control with some other institutions, and it also acted there. In the case that we are now witnessing to him, in all the attempts of the Bank of Slovenia to find a solution that would allow the situation in this institution to be rectified, unfortunately, this has not happened. No one was interested in getting into this rescue. While the business result has shown that this institution can no longer operate in the way it has done business, if it does not want to endanger it further, I will say, the business or property and property of those who have invested in this institution. Therefore, the only way to act at this time was through bankruptcy. The deputy can also say more about this, even if there are questions on this subject, of course. And then, on the occasion of the annual report on the exercise of control, this is one particular area in which this item, which I have just mentioned, is included, and will then be discussed in detail. So much for a start. If there are questions, of course, we will also answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The material was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The documents submitted by Banka Slovenije addressed the working body of the mother. After extensive presentation by the Governor and the Deputy Governor, there were no specific comments on the documents themselves. However, a question was raised regarding Banka Slovenije's policy in the context of further concentration of banks due to the strengthening of the market share of the largest banks and possible new mergers or mergers of individual banks. In this regard, it was replied that the central bank's vision is also aimed at strengthening that part of the market where the counterweight of the current largest bank would represent the interconnection of individual banks, either through status changes or through integration on contractual or project bases. There is also a possibility of stronger links between some smaller banks, either in the status or business sense of implementing the common business policy. This issue is important mainly because of the impact on cost-effectiveness, with banks mostly Slovenian-owned with combined strengths pairing with more cost-effective foreign competition. Foreign competition develops its services for larger systems, for a larger number of transactions and a single transaction price, and the cost of investment to support and develop new services is significantly lower than in a small space. This is therefore the direction of the central bank, which, of course, does not have the option of opposing individual links if the owners of the banks meet the legal conditions laid down for them. There has also been a lot of talk about what the Governor of Banka Slovenije has just been talking about regarding their economic growth assessments, the impact that is important for this, as well as what are the possibilities or facilitating the integration of Slovenia or its economy into the European Union. Finally, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, after discussion, a decree on the validation of the annual accounts of the Bank of Slovenia for 2001 and on the allocation of revenue surpluses over expenditure and a decree on the approval of the Bank of Slovenia’s financial plan for 2002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We would like to bring the discussion of both works together if you're up for this because it belongs to one point of the agenda anyway. Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. We've got two applications here so far. First, Mr Vizjak is here on behalf of the Social Democratic Party and then Mr Barovic. Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representative of the Bank of Slovenia, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I would only touch on the very important powers and tasks of Banka Slovenije, which mainly touches on the supervision of banks and savings banks, which have excited the public recently, particularly in connection with the savings of the Slovenian Savings and Loans in Kranj or so-called Gross Savings House. When I read this report, which is the annual report of the Bank for 2001, we can read on page 55 that the supervision of banking in 2001 was in these savings and credit services and that proposals were made to initiate bankruptcy proceedings or to issue a decision on the initiation of forced liquidation. Here I ask the distinguished representatives of the Bank of Slovenia whether this so-called Gros Savings House was also among these catering and credit services. And if it was, there's a lot of questions coming to me here. That is, we can read from the media that Mr Samo Nučič in Finance, if I am not mistaken, said that at the June Assembly of this HKS it was concluded that they would not comply with the rules, especially in terms of capital criteria, by 2004 and that, of course, they did not have a guarantee contract or this solidarity of up to EUR 20,000 because no one liked them or the holes in the HKS were too big. I ask how it is possible, in terms of the protection of savers, in terms of the right attitude towards our citizens, to tolerate or not to act in a timely manner and not to prevent many savers, of course, from coming out of this fraud or from never getting their nutritional contributions. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that such behaviour by the Bank of Slovenia is irresponsible. It is irresponsible that the Bank of Slovenia has not prevented the fraud of the savers that has taken place in recent months, when the savers have yet to play their nutritional roles in this food and credit service, but it has now proved that it has not been included in the solidarity guarantee that is to be organised in the field of the guarantee of food deposits, in accordance with the directives of the European Community. I am interested or would like to answer the following questions in particular: How does the safeguards scheme for savings deposits work in all our credit institutions from 1.1.2000 onward? This is of particular interest to me on behalf of many and many savers in Slovenia, who carry our assets to banks, savings banks, food and credit services, and we do not know what the fate of these funds can be. Do these savings banks, food and credit services have or do not have a contract with banks regarding the inclusion in this solidarity guarantee? And when we see Banka Slovenije instilling or proposing bankruptcy proceedings, the savers are probably not informed about this. In short, Banka Slovenije acts for obvious breaches of the rules, savers do not find out, of course, we naively carry funds to these banks and finally find out that the issue is in bankruptcy and that we can only promise ourselves the percentage that follows from the bankruptcy mass. That is why I am interested in why Banka Slovenije has not notified the savings services of Grossa's food and credit service that it has proposed bankruptcy if it has proposed it, because the report says that these are three food and credit services, but does not say which. At least I didn't track it. I would also like to know who Banka Slovenije, its Governor and the World of Banka Slovenije will be responsible for the security of the nutritional roles of natural persons in our banking system. In short, control, which is one of the main tasks of Banka Slovenije, shows a number of weaknesses and weaknesses, which have not been shown last year even when we discussed the annual report for 2000 and it has been unofficially known that Banka Slovenije has insufficient control over banking operations, since otherwise it would have found that for example, the branch of Nova Ljubljanska Banka in New York is in breach of the rules in force in the US banking sector and threatens the preservation or increase of state capital in the New Ljubljana Bank. There are a number of questions, particularly those that touch every person in this country who has a nutritional role that saves, and which I can see is later wiped out under the nose for his saved money. We note from the articles published in the media that Banka Slovenije, according to Banka Slovenije, said that due to outstanding capital issues at the end of last year they had to take action in the nutrition and credit system or in this Kranjska HKS. I want to know what they did. And of course, I want to know what the result of these actions is. I am very concerned that the end of last year has taken measures that the bankruptcy has recently taken place and that, of course, the disappointed savers have remained at the door and have also taken action during this period when the Bank of Slovenia took action and, before the bankruptcy occurred, of course, have carried this money well into the HKS. Above all, I would like to ask for another explanation here that, of course, the name of the store is, in this case, abuse, or it was not a savings office, but that it was a food and credit service. I am interested in why the competent authorities in Slovenia are not in time or are in time, but I am interested in what they have done in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Dr Bernik will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u54	Mr Vice President, Mr Governor, colleagues and colleagues! Although the Bank of Slovenia report is very interesting. It doesn't read like a detective novel, but in some parts there are things that a detective should examine, or at least someone who understands these things. I will proceed immediately to the audit report prepared by Price Waterhouse in Zurich. I have some questions here. When was this done? Where? How long? How many auditors and in what language? This would be interesting to know because to revise Banka Slovenije, our central bank, is a very big deal. Banka Slovenije will now no longer answer to the National Assembly under the new law, so I think that if this holds true, then we will have the last chance to talk about this in this assembly this year. Some Banka Slovenije banking measures are mentioned on page 99, but it is not entirely clear what supervision has been and also the seriousness of these violations has not been assessed. I think that would be interesting to know. As far as supervision is concerned, I would mention that I see that internal control and supervision of banking is part of the Bank of Slovenia. It would be interesting to know how many auditors have an internal department and then internal control as well as the scope of their work. As far as banking supervision is concerned, I would also like to know how many there are, how many of these are audited by domestic banks and how many of these are audited by our banks' daughters abroad. The Bank exercises indirect and direct control over Slovenian banks. Some of these measures are mentioned on page 41, but it would be interesting to know that in addition to these measures, the three measures mentioned above, the prohibition on the purchase of securities at the Bank of Slovenia, the prohibition of participation in the offers of the Bank of Slovenia and the payment of compensation for unattainable mandatory reserves, are still available to the Bank of Slovenia. How is it that, if these measures are available, why have they never been used? Let me also mention another thing, when the members of the Bank of Slovenia Council are mentioned, I wonder what control this world has over its external members. How to ensure that there is no conflict of interest between the work of these saints on the one hand and their normal employment or employment on the other. I also wonder whether the bank has a contract with these external members of the Council or something like that, indicating exactly where there are areas where conflicts of interest might be possible. If I am not mistaken, there is no word in the report on the obligation of the New Ljubljana Bank to Croatian savers. This man understands to some extent, but I think Banka Slovenije has had a significant share in the early treatment of this problem. It seems to me that this should at least be mentioned in the report. Finally, I come up with one of the biggest problems that Banka Slovenije should mention, and this is a complete lack of every word about the daughter of Nova Ljubljanska Banka in Frankfurt. This frankfurt daughter hasn't been there for a long time, and we also know about some of the things she's been doing, and I'm not gonna talk about them. But I would like to mention that this daughter was very strongly connected to LBS. As already mentioned, the issue of LBS is also not broken down in this report. I am surprised, however, that the frankfurt daughter was not mentioned as one of the important audits of the Bank of Slovenia. All these things make one wonder, and one wonders whether maybe "Price Water House," although I know, I know the instructions given to external auditors, had nothing to do with the matter. This is said to be the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia to audit the daughter of Slovenian banks abroad. It is clear that such shortcomings give little or no confidence in the finished statements or lack of statements in this long and professionally prepared report. I hope to get some clarification about this, because, after all, today is the last chance to ask the Bank of Slovenia about its business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I have no other applications, so I am moving on to the word of Members and Members. There are no written reports. First Mr Barovic and then Mr Bernick. Mr Barovic is not in the hall. Mr. Bajuk, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment of the law recently adopted by this National Assembly introduced one of the interesting aspects of our system, although the Constitution still applies and that Banka Slovenije is responsible to the National Assembly, will have no control over its functioning, at least during this period until we reach the European Union. However, it is not clear what is happening to the second role, the very important role that the Bank of Slovenia has in our system. This is the role of control over the entire banking and financial system. The report mentions this matter, as colleague Bernik has already warned. There are more questions than answers. The fact is that Banka Slovenije should explain a little more specifically and very carefully what is happening in our system. I would like to point out, colleagues and colleagues, that this is not just a matter of interest, or the interest of one Member or of one of the Members' groups or of a group of Members. The fact is, with us, the country no longer guarantees investment in banks and savings banks that we have introduced a different system. How this system works, we don't know. This is not the case in this report if the system really works, if it is credible, if it truly creates the atmosphere that man would expect in the market economy, that it must also be put into effect. The question arises precisely because of what Comrade Visjak has already mentioned. And that's what happened to the Krajina KHS. The question of how ours works [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] The system must be of great interest to us Members and Members. Otherwise, banks are now responsible for this, but we need to know that the largest bank or both of the largest banks in Slovenia are still, one completely and one predominantly owned by the state. The responsibilities assumed with respect to the guarantee of deposits of Nova Ljubljanska banka and Nova Kreditna banka Maribor have implications for the country. We should also ask ourselves how this system works. How does Banka Slovenije actually carry out its key role, which it still has under law, and this is the control of our system? The questions raised by Comrade Visjak are of key importance and the answers are needed. We in this National Assembly need to know clearly and loudly what Banka Slovenije knew and when she knew and what she had done. What can happen to us can have very serious consequences on the whole of public finances, and for which we as a national assembly are responsible. The second question I would like to ask the Governor is more about current problems. As my colleague Bernik has already mentioned, it is very interesting, but we have only a few moments before we have the opportunity to ask the Governor here in this National Assembly. There have been many speeches and writings in recent days on monetary and fiscal policy coordination. Mr. Governor has made a number of statements in recent months. It is said that this coordination has already taken place, but there are very serious questions if so. I would therefore like to ask the Governor today if he can give his assessment to this National Assembly. To what extent is the real fiscal policy of the Republic of Slovenia aligned with the monetary policy pursued and taken over by the Bank of Slovenia? And this is a question that also has its basis. This is a question for the Governor, who has been responsible for or at least responsible for public finances for 8 years in this country. Your successor, Mr. Governor, has repeatedly used the image of opening cabinets and skeletons falling out. Therefore, this question, if the fiscal policy of the Republic of Slovenia is truly in line with monetary policy, is not naive, needs and requires a very clear answer. Because if this is not harmonised and you may know about some other skeletons, we are slowly opening it up here, one would wonder about the credibility of the whole monetary policy or all of these discussions, which are very public and little impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. I would ask only one question to Mr. Governor Mitji Gaspari. I listened attentively to the Governor's implementation of the annual report and heard him mention that the inflation in 2003 was to be reduced to 4 per cent by the Bank of Slovenia. My question is: with what and what instruments is it possible to reduce, not reduce, halve inflation in a bad year? If they can be as detailed as possible, what are these elements or what are these instruments of policy of the Bank of Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you. Any other Members want a word? Then I'd give my word to the governor or to the deputy. Nobody wants to talk anymore. Then I ask the governor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you very much. First, I would like to share the answer because we are here with the Deputy to answer these more principled or general questions concerning politics and control. However, I would like to leave to the Vice-President some of the answers that are concrete in this matter, which has also been mentioned and I have mentioned it myself at the outset. Perhaps first of all, he asked Mr Bernick two questions, which I can also answer directly. As regards the audit report, or even the procedure for the audit of the accounts of the Bank of Slovenia. As you know, according to the acts adopted by the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and in some way confirmed by Parliament, the Bank of Slovenia is audited by foreign auditors. In this case, Price Water House from Zuerich, which revises the Bank of Slovenia as well as any other central bank in Europe that also has its auditors, which are reviewed each year. The review in Banka Slovenije takes several months, from November to April, after which an appropriate report shall be issued in writing, which must also be accepted by the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. What's being revised? All financial statements and the internal organisation of Banka Slovenije are audited, which will give the auditor an opinion and recommendations which the Council of Banka Slovenije will then consider and, as a rule, take into account all. This year's audit report did not contain any specific findings that would require Banka Slovenije's immediate activity due to deficiencies or irregularities. As you know, in last year, part of the shown surplus of income over expenditure also went towards harmonising Banka Slovenije's claims to the success fund. These are also certain things that are linked to the past, especially the business of cash at the time of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This claim has now been definitively depreciated by the corresponding reservations or write-offs. Why now? Because the procedures for the successor agreement after the former country of Vienna have reached their conclusion or, if they are also ratified within a certain time, they have been signed, as we know, signed. Regarding the world of Banka Slovenije, when you asked what is the conflict of interest of individual members of the world of Banka Slovenije, who perform their functions in the economy as well. These are two members of the Council and for all other members of the Council, including those appointed by Parliament, as governor, deputy and vice-governors, there are so-called rules of conduct of members in writing that each member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia must adopt at the time of this function and which provide for the so-called ethical conduct in relation to the operation of the Bank of Slovenia, from the point of view that it is an appropriate relationship to information and data that members of the Council may obtain in this world and cannot be used outside the functioning of this Council, to, say, activities relating to property and property transactions that could be influenced by information that they may have in the world of the Bank of Slovenia. Each member shall undertake to comply in writing with these rules and shall keep the Council of the Bank of Slovenia regularly informed if there are any differences in relation to these rules. As you know, the new Banka Slovenije Act provides for a transitional period and a change in the composition of members of the Banka Slovenije Council, which will require or full employment, this is said to be an individual contract as a member of the Council with Banka Slovenije or, in the case of professors with academic titles who regularly perform their professorship or teaching function, up to at least one third of the working time. Regarding the obligation of the New Ljubljana Bank to Croatian savers, as you know, there are procedures that Banka Slovenije cannot comment on on on on its own. This is a follow-up action following the conclusion of a successor agreement or a signed successor agreement in Vienna, which has established a specific form of negotiation or coordination of very different views on this issue within the framework of the so-called Basel Group, which is managed as moderator by former Swiss Governor Mayer and is still in progress at this time. It is difficult to judge this moment as to what the final result will be. Essentially, as a change to past events, the Yugoslav Government, or the Government of Serbia and Montenegro, has adopted a position which is the same as that of the Republic of Slovenia, that in this case it is basically a territorial principle and that they do not accept the principles that they want to establish as a criterion for decision-making mainly by the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Haercegovina, at the seat of the parent bank. In this, it is obvious that there is now some balance in the formal positions of the individual successors of the former country, which for the first time is favourable for the position of the Republic of Slovenia, and for the second time, I will say, shows that our position in the past was also meaningful. It is expected that these negotiations will, of course, result in a certain result in Basel. When and how, as I say, this moment from the perspective of the Bank of Slovenia cannot be confirmed or assumed. We offer all professional assistance to those who perform this function. More than that, Banka Slovenije is unable to perform the position at this time. With regard to the daughter of the New Ljubljana Bank in Frankfurt, the Deputy will answer you if you are referring to LHB as well as LBS. In accordance with the promise made by the Bank of Slovenia, given whether the US supervisory authorities will give their consent, the Bank of Slovenia submitted to Parliament, after obtaining this agreement, the relevant documents, which had a code which had to be removed by that US authority. It was sent to the commission, I think, to oversee the business ahead of time. As for Dr. Bayuk's questions, here's the thing. The supervision of the banking system is established by the Bank of Slovenia law and by the Bank of Slovenia law, where, above all, the banking law lists the procedures, from the first stage of the proceedings, and this is the control or control of those procedures which follow if they are not respected, I will say, in the course of certain normal procedures. With us, the system is divided into three segments, as you know, into banks and savings banks on the one hand and food and credit cooperatives, which have very specific status in Slovenia. The Banking Act, which was adopted in Parliament two years ago, gave them a certain transitional period of five years in which they must adapt to those standards in order to enter into schemes that also apply to bank and savings insurance. So, HKS is in this scheme until we gain this status, but this is the capital of 110 million Slovenian tolars and some others, in the law of these conditions, which were subject to the relevant transitional periods, they cannot obtain these benefits. However, they may, of course, have their schemes in place, as agreed with the relevant institutions. To the question of what the new system means in the light of the past, our answer is that the new system adopted by law is clearer, clearer. Guarantees for 20,000 euro individual deposits in each bank. There can be more deposits in different banks and each of them - a role and not a saver - then 20,000 euros in compensation will be provided if events such as those that occurred a few days ago in the said credit insurance cooperative. There is a scheme that is prescribed. In fact, banks are obliged because this is in principle a commercial scheme, but a mandatory scheme for all members of the system to ensure that secondary liquidity is adequately ensured at Banka Slovenije for the problems of the implementation of such a guarantee. The law and the measures of the Bank of Slovenia also encourage them to design, if they want, the so-called superstandard scheme, a scheme that can also cover a higher level of funding than EUR 20,000 per role. Individual banks have already decided on such a concept. €20,000 is a concept that is established by the European Directive and is also known by other countries in the European Union. In this area, of course, there are no special differences in Slovenia with this new law from those in force in other countries of the European Union. The Deputy will explain why the situation with HKS is different, why they are not treated in the same way and how they can be included in such treatment. With regard to the question of the harmonisation of monetary and fiscal policy of arrangements or future movements and, as Dr. Bayuk mentioned, those skeletons, you also mentioned this expression of skeletons that are just coming. I can only say, given my knowledge of the times when I was still doing this work, that some excessive skeletons could not fall out of the closet or from other suitable places. Even if you look at the public finances in recent years, including in the past, and compare them with other countries in the European Union or in Central and Eastern Europe, these fiscal results are not poorer, not now. Although it is true that the situation has deteriorated in recent years. If someone looks at the structure of the expenditure balance in public finances, they will find out where the main problems come from. They are linked to the area of wages and, not all, but some, to transfers that the state budget also pays. There was also a question in the past why it once went to a reduction in the rate of contribution for pension and disability insurance and the enforcement of certain other tax loans at the time - because it caused a particular crisis. It was a very clear purpose, which I think still has its own certificate today. It was related to the fact that the work or labour force in companies at that time was significantly more burdened by indirect taxes on contributions rates and that, by reducing the contribution rates and transferring the work of this burden to higher wages, the structural shift was in fact made at the time that many companies in Slovenia were able to adapt to the changed international economic circumstances, which would be extremely difficult without this in particular in the labour intensive sectors. It is certainly true that in public finances there is always more to be done. I would mention only a case that is very well known in Europe in a country that is now known as a very well-ordered country. This is Sweden, which fell into a marked fiscal crisis in 1992 with a 10% deficit in gross domestic product, and built on this reform, which we are also talking about and which we have followed in the past. Slovenia will certainly not go into such a crisis, but I certainly think it is necessary that certain things of a structural nature, which are a major problem of public finances, not as large as its structure, gradually adapt and change. Regarding monetary and fiscal policy coherence this year. The problem that we have detected in Banka Slovenije and have also been publicly pointed out is that recklessly certain fiscal additional revenues are mostly sought in a way that is, I will say, a quick and very large increase in certain taxes or taxes. While VAT is a problem and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] alcohol and cigarettes were known in advance, and some other changes in administrative adjustments in this area were a surprise or at least a surprise to us and at such a level that resulted in a single high price rise. In this context, gradual and moderate adjustment is the first time that there is no excessive pressure on prices on the one hand, on the other hand, that conditions of management within the business year do not substantially change. There were no special interviews and coordinations between the Bank of Slovenia and the government. The discussion, which was conducted and also publicly presented, was only in explaining to the government in essence the intentions and procedures that the Bank of Slovenia intends to carry out in pursuit of this basic objective, which I have already mentioned and which we still insist on and think is achievable. On the other hand, a warning that the government has finally accepted that the adjustment of administrative prices at such a pace and in such dynamics and heights as it was at the beginning of the year is reckless and that it is essentially hampering such processes of coordination of these different policies and with that basic objective, which is not only a monetary policy objective, not just a government, but an entire country or economy. This is, however, to join the European Union with relatively well-coordinated relative prices, but not because of this completely stagnant economic growth and completely unbalanced balance of payments movements and public financial movements. I think that we can move in this direction, at least in the part controlled by the Bank of Slovenia, it is obvious that the balance of payments is more or less balanced, which is an essential achievement for the future, that the exchange rate is gradually dying, which you can also see from the rates, and will continue to calm down over the next period of the year and a half. To ensure, on the other hand, the interest rates of Banka Slovenije, which allow for a normal level of savings and do not encourage reckless spending, where it may be the cause of an expansionary monetary policy. From this point of view and comparatively, as far as the European Central Bank wants to be able to present, however, some other documents could be presented earlier by the European Central Banks, which are doing comparative analyses of individual countries in transition or those that will join the European Union, however, all of these documents find that Slovenia's starting points for integration into the European Union are among the best, if not the best, with the least negative side imbalances that could cause problems once the country has crossed into the European Union, the European monetary system when the course is fixed and when all adjustments are made not nominally but through employment and economic growth. So the starting points for Slovenia are not as bad as they are often mentioned. However, it is essential to achieve what has already been said, also to the question of Dr. Bajuk, that, within the fiscal sector, it is particularly important to address those problems that cause structural exacerbation of the situation in this segment on the one hand and to allow for the coordination of relative prices where their coordination is still needed in a way that the Slovenian economy can and is consistent with the level of development of our economy, which is, according to other countries of the European Union or countries that join the European Union, as you know, the largest of all, approximately 70% of the average. This means that real convergence, this second important criterion for integration into the European Union, will be slightly easier for Slovenia than for other countries. Therefore, the appreciation of courses in Slovenia is not necessarily as strong as in some other countries and causes side effects, and this very large side-effects. I would also ask the Deputy to answer the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Nučič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you. As far as the guarantee scheme is concerned, you may not have been paying enough attention. The Bank's annual report itself briefly explains how the guarantee scheme for applications or the guarantee system in Slovenia works. It includes, as has already been said, all banks and savings banks authorised to operate, according to Banka Slovenije's license. No savings and credit service is yet licensed by Banka Slovenije for a very simple reason because they have not yet fulfilled the conditions defined in the Banking Act of February 1999 and have not yet been adapted. In accordance with the transitional period granted to them by the Banking Act, HKS must adapt to the rules of banking within five years, until February 2004. In the interim period, however, the Bank of Slovenia has, of course, the right and duty to supervise the operation of HKS, on the basis of a decision adopted on the gradual adaptation of the savings and credit services by the provisions of the Banking Act, in terms of the extent to which the adjustment takes place in accordance with the sub-legislative act or whether this adaptation to the rules of the Bank of Slovenia or the rules of banking conduct takes place in accordance with the rules defined by the Bank of Slovenia. I must say the following, as regards the guarantee scheme and the guarantee statements, are also obliged food and credit services to make public in their business premises in a visible place or to show what guarantee they enjoy in the food and credit services. The equivalent, of course, for banks. The banks have fulfilled their duty. In each business area, in each bank’s exposure you will be able to see a special inscription, such as the guarantee scheme or the amount of the deposits are secured and where. It goes, as the Governor has already said, practically to banks and savings banks for Banka Slovenije's license, in fact for this solidarity guarantee scheme, which Banka Slovenije is concerned about, implementation and functioning. The way is relatively simple, to finance schemes. All banks are responsible - and this is what Banka Slovenije is concerned about - to also fulfil this obligation - to provide a specific liquidity reserve, which, of course, is engaged when a bank gets in trouble and these deposits will have to be paid. Of course, for the entire payment process as defined in the law, Banka Slovenije must also take care of it. In food and credit services, the situation is slightly different. You need to know that food and credit services are not banks, but they are food and credit services that are still operating under the 1990 law. As regards the guarantee for their applications, because I expected this to be a question, I would only read to you the second paragraph of Article 15 of the Food and Credit Services Act 1990, which is very short. He says: "If the funds of the savings credit service are not sufficient to settle its obligations, the founders shall be responsible for the obligations of the savings and credit service by means of their means in solidarity and unlimited." The same inscription on the solidarity and unlimited liability of the founders of the food and credit service was also required to be hanged or declared in their business premises. It is said that the roles of food-credit services are guaranteed, of course, primarily by the food-credit service itself, and then, in the second instance, by unlimited solidarity - of course, by its founders. Why they are not included in the guarantee scheme - I think I explained. For a very simple reason, because the food and credit services in the adjustment phase have not yet complied with the rules, they do not have enough capital, they have not yet met the conditions defined in the law. When the catering and credit services have adequate capital, as required by the Bank of Slovenia law, when the rules of the game and of course the profession in these nutritional and credit services are as defined by the Bank of Slovenia regulations and regulations, the appropriate nutritional and credit services that will meet these conditions will be licensed; and with the Bank of Slovenia licence, it is said, the green label, where it reads " business permit for Bank of Slovenia" and then these savings and credit services will be included in the guarantee scheme. As far as the food and credit service itself is concerned, and this is the catering and credit service of the Slovenian Savings and Loan Office, I have to tell you something: that the Slovenian Savings and Loan Register is properly registered, 18.1. 1991, this Slovenian Savings and Loan Facility was established. If you look in the Court Register, you will see that in the longer version of the name is properly registered and this is the Storage and Credit Service of the Slovenian Savings and Loan Office p.o., which means the full responsibility of the Keepers. Of course, HKS used a shorter company in its business, which is also registered, but it is only a SHP and you could say that in this part it was part of, I will not say, 'round the delivery' or I will say not enough information to the savers where they invest their money. I must say that in the past in Banka Slovenije we have repeatedly, including with press releases and with appropriate press conferences, pointed out that those who save should be sure where their money invests. Since there was just talk about our controls and the measures we launched in 2001, I can say this, that last year we practically proposed and conducted bankruptcys of two food and credit services, for which there was somehow no big public echo, and we also carried out forced liquidation of one food and credit service, which is currently successfully ending in those days. One bankruptcy proposed by Banka Slovenije in the meantime was not regretted, carried out to the end, but 4.6. If I recall correctly, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also discussed, because the founder of this HKS - it is a complete dispute for HKS Soča. And, of course, because of the constitutional dispute, and because of it, I will say, a few misunderstandings of the district court in Nova Gorica, the whole matter is practically stopped. Banka Slovenije no longer has the authority to proceed with the procedure and, of course, the savers still have the right to carry the money to that food and credit service. As it ends, don't ask me because Banka Slovenije did what she could. Now, of course, we are waiting for solutions to the constitutional conflict. As far as these food and credit services are concerned, I think Banka Slovenije has done her job correctly. As regards the specific food and credit service, by the end of January 2001, the founders of the three food and credit services decided to comply with the Banking Act; of course, this means that they had to meet the requirements for gradual adjustment within a certain period of time. Well, first, let me put it this way, the control moment was, of course, 31.12.2001. Data for the final account, now that it is 31.12.2001, is usually transmitted by 28 February of the current year. When we received the first data for 2001, of course we found that HKS Slovenian Savings and Loan P.o. in Kranj, not meeting the intermediate objectives. We made a check in the Slovenian Savings and Loan Office, in the HKS, and found that the actual loss is much greater than what was shown in the books, that HKS does not control the situation or that the situation in HKS is worse. I must say that on the basis of a number of interviews, the founders themselves have come to realize that any assistance from any other bank in Slovenia or storage facility in Slovenia to not count on this help is simply because, to put it this way, the hole or lack of assets in the HKS is simply too large for any bank or storage facility with a license from the Bank of Slovenia to take over. On this basis, the founders of HKS themselves suggested to Banka Slovenije that further efforts to resolve the situation were virtually inexhaustible, and they themselves proposed that Banka Slovenije act in accordance with the law. We did what I told you. We were so tolerant in our midst that we tried to leave HKS with the option or the possibility of finding a bank or a storage facility that would assume the obligations of this HKS, but all the attempts, unfortunately, failed and ended up as I told you. Now, what is the responsibility of the founders, or what is their property, by which they will be in solidarity without limit to the obligations of the savers of this HKS, we will see in the bankruptcy process itself. As regards the supervision of Banka Slovenije over the operations of banks and savings banks, including banks of connected persons, daughters and the like, I can tell you that there are about 47 people in Banka Slovenije in the banking control department dealing with supervision. We have a goal somewhere to reach about 50 people by the end of 2002. These are people who deal directly with on-the-spot inspections, according to banks and savings banks, and of course also with data monitoring. Among them are those responsible for issuing licences, for extending the banking licence or for extending banking services or for all other procedures defined in the law. Colleagues in banking supervision shall act against the bank in accordance with the measures prescribed in the law. The easiest of these is the practical order by which the Bank of Slovenia imposes a certain bank correction of certain activities that we consider to be incorrect. If the order is not sufficient, a worse measure follows, that is a decision; if the decision is not implemented, and if the legal options against the bank are exhausted to appeal against that order, even worse measures are followed. The final measure can, if I so call it, be said, Banka Slovenije cancels the administration, replaces the administration, that is one option, if the Bank of Slovenia considers that the bank can be solved; however, if the bank cannot be resolved, there is a procedure called liquidation or later bankruptcy. The diaspora of measures that Banka Slovenije can use in control is prescribed by the Bank of Slovenia Banka Slovenije law and, of course, other measures than those defined in the law cannot be applied by Banka Slovenije. The same thing, I'll say, is banking supervision, as far as the supervision of foreign legal persons is concerned. Today it was also a matter of control or supervision of the subsidiaries of the New Ljubljana Bank abroad. LHB was first mentioned in Frankfurt and LBS was mentioned in New York. I must warn you here that there is a slight but important difference. The supervisory powers of the Bank of Slovenia are virtually terminated by the Slovenian border. In the case of LBS or, in the case of LHB, foreign legal persons, it is both American and German legal persons subject to the American or German legal order. Our entry into control of both institutions is, of course, possible with the prior consent of the parent supervisory institutions in the United States or in the Federal Republic of Germany. On this basis, we have also carried out controls in the past year and also in the past years, both at the LBS bank and at the LHB, but we cannot and must not go there alone, but we can join a team led by the American or German supervisor. And of course, any action against an American or a German legal person is the responsibility of an American or a German overseer. The Bank of Slovenia can, of course, act towards the parent bank, says in a specific case to the New Ljubljana Bank in the part where the Ljubljana Bank is either capital or otherwise exposed to a particular daughter - either in Germany, in the United States or elsewhere in the world. Cooperation between supervisors is defined by the so-called 'Memorandum' [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and it is essentially a cooperation agreement between the supervisors of the two countries. [[...]] The basic principle of cooperation in supervision is, of course, respect for the principle of confidentiality of data. Of course, we need to stick to this confidentiality, not only because of cooperation agreements with foreign supervisors, but mainly because of the definitions or definitions of the Bank of Slovenia Banking Act, which very precisely defines what information, what findings in particular the Bank of Slovenia can provide to the public, especially in the part where individual actions against the offender or individual measures in the phase or in the process of controlling banks and savings in Slovenia are concerned. Therefore, I regret to say that our reports in this part are somewhat dry or less interesting, because under the Banking Act, banks are already banned from any public disclosure of the measures taken to a particular bank and, of course, the naming of these banks could be discredited or put into a strange light by a single bank. I must say that the same practice is practically throughout Europe and the basis, as I have already said, for any cooperation between bank supervisors, is respect for the principles of banking secrecy, which is defined not only in the Banking Act but also in the European Directive and in other legal order. As regards the control measures that Mr Bernik spoke about, he listed them on page 99. On page 99 of the report, the measures are listed, and these are mainly regulatory measures, which are also issued by Banka Slovenije. This is a matter of sub-legislative regulation, determining the way banks operate or operate. One of these conclusions is the decision on the gradual adaptation of the banking law's food and credit services, which is also specified on page 99 and which I mentioned earlier. As for the fraud of the savers, I think I have explained to Mr Visiak that it should not be any responsibility or responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia in this work. I think that in this part the Bank of Slovenia has correctly fulfilled its powers and, of course, acted as it has done in many - or in the past - cases and in the same way as it will in the near future. Because in the near future we are likely to witness another similar procedure, because food and credit services, unfortunately, face considerable difficulties with reality and, of course, adapt to the banking law. We therefore expect that in the future there will be some such procedures, unless, of course, the founders of these food and credit services decide otherwise or find any additional financial means to remedy the operation of each food and credit service. Just a complementary response as far as the members of the Council are concerned. I think the case was over-heard. Members of the Council, I am also a member of the Council, although also employed in Banka Slovenije, we have no contract of work and we are practically operating on the basis of the rules of conduct of members of the Banka Slovenije Council, which, of course, also by signing, I have undertaken to protect business secrecy or banking secrecy in that part, for which I am also bound by the Banka Slovenije Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk has the word. Before I give you my word, Doctor, this is all I'd like to suggest. Since then we have only a point in the human resources case, I think, elections and appointments, and we have here a proposal by the Council of Justice for one election of the judiciary, and a proposal by the Commission for Elections and Appointments on the amendment of the decision establishing the Constitutional Commission and the Committee of the National Assembly, if possible, would now withdraw this debate and conclude the meeting. Does anyone object? If this works, of course, in a reasonable time. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, he explained something, some explanation that I think is crucial. The Governor mentioned in the matter, about the questions raised with regard to the operation of the subsidiary of the New Ljubljana Bank in New York, that it had been transmitted to certain members of the budget and other public finances that we were interested in, otherwise, a secret report from the responsible institutions in the United States. That's right. We got this a few weeks ago, but there is no answer to the key questions, which are not related in any way to any secrecy concerning the institutions in the United States, and this is what Nova Ljubljanska Banka and the government that owns it actually responded to all those requirements that are still available on the website and you can read it. Well, it's true that we know what question regulators are. However, we do not have the answers that the Nova Ljubljanska Banka and the Slovenian Government, as owners, had to provide in response to all the questions raised there. As far as the guarantee scheme is concerned - the question was very simple. I am grateful that both the Governor and his deputy have reexplained the law and how this law is similar or similar to other countries in the world. The question was very - thank you for that, of course. Every day I'm ready to learn something, there was really nothing new about what you said today. The question was whether the Bank of Slovenia, in its responsible role of control, actually controls the operation of this scheme if it is implemented in the way it is set. Can we get a guarantee today from the Governor that the scheme works as provided for in the law, but not that you are explaining the law here again? As for the question of coordination between monetary and fiscal policy - I have asked you this question, Mr Governor, because you are clearly one of the most informed persons in the Republic of Slovenia about public finances, at least until you have assumed these new responsibilities. The question was, however, whether the current fiscal policy was truly in line with the monetary policy set by the Bank of Slovenia. The answer was not clear, because you have also concluded that it is necessary to address the structural problems that some of us are aware of, but it does not appear that this does not constitute a ruling coalition when it adopts such and different budgets. The question remains: If we do not address these structural problems in a short time, at least at a certain time, will the Bank of Slovenia change its monetary policy and subject itself to what I personally believe is the irresponsible fiscal policy of the Slovenian Government, will it insist on its views as it has been? The second question is, however, about the presentation by Mr Nučič, Deputy Governor. The question I have asked is also very clear. Regarding this facility in Kranj - what did Banka Slovenije know and when did she know? As I understand it in your presentation, you have only acted on the basis of your analysis of the final data on 31 December, and you have found the lack of coordination in capital that this does not work, is not in accordance with the law and you have started some negotiations. Of course, I would expect Banka Slovenije to find some way to tell the savers what's going on there. This seems to me still to be irresponsible from the control facility, because we have finally come to a situation where people have stood outside closed doors, and obviously this has been known before. There is also a question of what Banka Slovenije knew about this concrete institution before the end of the year. Was the capital structure sufficient, or was it in line with the law that we had done before? Above all, I ask you this because in the report I read today in the Slovenian daily Finance, it also says that bankruptcy will be led by a gentleman who knows this very well because he has already run the Triglav Bank. And then, of course, you were surprised. There should be no surprises in this area, especially not surprises at the institution responsible for supervision. So the question still exists what you knew, when you knew and how you acted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I'm asking for short answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u66	To the first question of Dr. Bajuk, whether the insurance scheme is also working in reality, I can answer: yes - with those institutions that have a license from the Bank of Slovenia. So I can say with certainty that savings in banks and savings banks with the operating license of Banka Slovenije are fully secured, not only formally with the law, but also in practice. As far as monetary and fiscal policy is concerned, this is how I can respond. If those assumptions that have been recorded in the budgetary memorandum and in the medium-term fiscal policy objectives are fulfilled, this is that the share of public spending will be around 43% in order to reduce the share of wages and certain transfers in the public spending structure, then such a policy can be in line with that monetary policy that needs to achieve the objective of 4%, and this sustainablely, inflation. What Banka Slovenije or monetary policy could have done differently if such results had moved away from such assumptions. Then it remains available to Banka Slovenije, with this current policy, in fact only the option of a free running course, where it would simply no longer lead the policy of regulating the rolling course like this moment, but would only give up and care about the amount of money without worrying about what the course will be. This would mean, at the moment of balancing the balance of payments and the relatively strong capital inflows that we can still expect, a very strong nominal appreciation of the exchange rate. As a result, inflation can be partly reduced quickly in the short term and inflation recovery and structural imbalances may occur in the medium term. Therefore, we believe that the policy we are currently pursuing is correct, and if it is supported further by such fiscal policy as has been envisaged, we do not see any reason for policy change. But we will see, this year and a half, before integration into the European Union, how these different combinations will flow. As to when Banka Slovenije could react, the deputy will say more. I'd say the following. You know, when it comes to bankruptcy, any pre-information is the best, I'll say, the appropriate ones that are supposed to be informed can also give a message to those who abuse it. And these are primarily the co-owners or, in this case, the guarantors. For the bank, because Dr. Bajuk will probably be well aware of these cases also from abroad, what it looks like when you are well informed to yourself to provide, of course, an appropriate treatment before the process takes place there, although then certain things are at odds in the bankruptcy process itself. This is why, of course, the regulator cannot announce, warn, but can only act. The time spent at that time was intended to find a repositories that would enable this process not to occur at all, but to assume both obligations and claims from the new owner. Unfortunately, there was no such interest in the Republic of Slovenia. There were some banks in the game, including a few other institutions. Unfortunately, no one was willing to take over. But I have to say this, and then this will be further explained. The Bank of Slovenia obtained official powers to act and review at the end of 2001, since it was only since then that day that HKS had to comply with the rule of 110 million Slovenian shareholdings of basic capital, that day and not in some period. It was not intended that after some thirds, or twelve or twenty - four, they should collect it, but on that day. The final account is the first document in which, I would say, such a finding can also be verified. That it would not be misunderstood what the deputy had previously said that bankruptcys would now rain on average. We are trying to agree on a segment of about 50 food and credit services, as many as were established and operated in Slovenia, with most of them to adapt properly and find their own vertical link, if I say so. These are, in particular, so-called HKS farmers, if we can call them, those operating in agriculture. And most of them have decided and are working in this direction to reorganize or through the association of agricultural cooperatives into another system of their operation. About those we are talking about, those who have already been mentioned, these are not HKS farmers, they were, so to speak, universal HKS, who did not have their precise field of operation and have the most problems with providing, both capital and other criteria. We have even come to the point that a court has even suspended one trial and, of course, we cannot do anything other than complain, we have requested a faster procedure so as not to cause further damage to the creditors of such an institution. The fact is that most food-credit cooperatives are unable and unwilling or unable to acquire that basic capital that would enable them to guarantee capital, but not only in solidarity with the assets of the so-called founders, as it is written down. If you remember - Dr. Bajukne, but others - there was a very lively discussion when adopting the Banking Act, or to set a transitional period for adapting, how to determine it and how. The express desire and not just desire, also of course the obvious ability of this part of financial organisations, was that a five-year period was the right time to adjust to meet the criteria that allowed for normal operation within five years and, of course, the transition to what I would call normal banking space, which is banks and savings banks. We are aware that the problem is here, we are trying to deal with it with the least possible inconveniences and problems for anyone. However, only when there is no willingness to cooperate on the other hand, when the owners themselves or the founders do not show any interest in this, then we are running out of options to bring the process to a different conclusion. And such a process, as it is now, is still better for the majority of savers or depositors in such an institution than if, in fact, this process were left to the founders and their skills or incompetences to regulate basically the kind of operation for which they, as managers, as founders, are also obliged by law to perform it in a qualitative manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on both decisions. First of all, I am putting forward a proposal for a decree on the validation of the annual accounts of the Bank of Slovenia for 2001 and on the allocation of revenue surpluses over expenditure. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote, please. Excuse me! Here's the explanation for the voice, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I will abstain from this vote myself. But I'll tell you why. Since we currently have a final account in the National Assembly for 2000, in which the Court of Auditors found certain irregularities concerning the connection between the Slovenian State and the Bank of Slovenia. It's a small matter, but you haven't been explained yet. In addition, I have not found in this report - and this question has been going on for several years and there is no report or external auditors have mentioned it - so I will refrain from doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-26-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Then can we get to the vote? So let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 42 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting forward a proposal for a resolution on the approval of the Bank of Slovenia's 2002 financial plan. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Can we vote? Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the Governor and the Deputy to participate in the meeting. We're moving to 32. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. Under this item, the assembly will consider the proposal of the Judicial Council for election in a judicial capacity and the Commission's proposal for elections, appointment and administrative matters. This is a change to the decree establishing the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and a change to the decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy. First of all, we are at the proposal of the Judicial Council for election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election to the judicial function of Mrs Lilliana Podolsnik to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly and submitted reports and a proposal for a resolution. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[Not at all.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Lilliana Podlesnik to the judge's seat at the District Court in Ljubljana. Let's vote, please! Of the 54 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour. One was against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I thank Mr. Beznik for his presence at the sitting. We are moving to the second part of this point, this is the proposal for a decree amending the decree establishing the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the Commission for elections, appointments and administrative matters. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Emissary groups? [[Not at all.]] Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament? [[Not at all.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to a vote on this decision. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 members present, 52 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Proposal for a decree amending the Decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Emissary groups. [[Not at all.]] Members and Members of Parliament. [[Not at all.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for this resolution. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 50 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 17th session. Members of the College, however, are invited to report immediately after the meeting in room 217, where the College will meet. Thank you.
