ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u1	I ask my fellow Members and colleagues to come to the hall. We will continue the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. I welcome the Prime Minister and representatives of the government! I invite Members of Parliament and Members to come to the Hall. It's 10:00. As we say, we will continue the 12th session by moving on to agenda 26 today as agreed. I invite everyone to come to the hall and make it possible to begin the work of the National Assembly with attendance. In the morning's work, apparently, we also have elections that are secret, these are the election of the judge, so this will take some time for us, so every minute of a timely start would be useful. Once again, I politely invite my fellow Members and fellow Members to come out of the lobby to a large debate room. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Please, if you can put your cards in the voting device. In this way, we will be able to determine whether we are enough to begin the session. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am beginning to continue the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and I welcome everything very much. I am informed that they are detained and are unable to attend this afternoon's meeting: Sonja Areh Lavrič, Dr. Merlo, colleague of Majnikov, colleague of Vnučec for the afternoon part of the meeting, colleague of Gračner, colleague of Jakič is with us, I welcome him, colleague of Cimperman for the morning part of the session, colleague of Sušnik will leave us after 11.00 p.m. and will not be present until 11.00 p.m. and will come to the National Assembly, colleague Delak for the morning part of the session. I ask for peace in the hall. I'm detecting a presence. Please report attendance with the "quorum" key. I'm gonna rediscover the presence in the hall. Please, if we can find out if there's a presence in the hall. There are 50 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. At today's meeting, the President of the Slovenian Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, is a candidate for a Minister without a portfolio responsible for the areas of European affairs, Dr. Janez Potočnik, Minister without a portfolio responsible for European affairs, Mr. Igor Bavčar, representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome them in our midst, too. Today's follow-up to the 12th meeting will begin with the 26th item on the agenda, as well as the proposal by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for the resignation or appointment of a Minister without a director in charge of European affairs. The assembly will then turn to the 27th item, the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for a judge at the International Maritime Law Court in Hamburg, and then to the 7th item, this is a proposal for a national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia and in order to proceed. Colleagues and colleagues, so we move on to 26. On behalf of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Republic of Slovenia has been informed by the President of the Republic of Slovenia about the derogation from the Minister of Foreign Affairs in charge of the European Affairs, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the President's motion to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of Dr. Janez, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for the European Affairs, we will first come to the first part of this item, which is to be discussed by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the resignation of the Minister in charge of European Affairs, Mr Igor Bavčar. Prime Minister Janez Drnovšek informed me that the Minister without a resource in charge of European affairs, Mr Igor Bavčar, had resigned from his ministerial office. Mr Igor Bavčar informed me that he would not explain his resignation in the National Assembly. The National Assembly, in accordance with Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Mr Igor Bavčar, Minister without a portfolio in charge of European affairs, has resigned and has ceased to serve as Minister without a portfolio in charge of European affairs. Until the appointment of a new minister, he must carry out ongoing business. Allow me, colleagues and colleagues, to thank on our common behalf Mr Igor Bavčar for his faithful and responsible performance in this important department and invite him to address the assembly at the end. Please, Mr. Igor Bavcar, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, Mr President! I thank you for your trust so far, thank you for your cooperation in the work I have carried out in as many as two mandates in the field of European affairs. So without your cooperation, your assistance, your insistence, even your extraordinary engagement with Slovenia today would not be where it is in negotiations and accession efforts to join the European Union. I am sure that the new people who come to my place will also do just as well and thus conclude, I think that already this year, in line with the plans our country has, all the tasks that lie ahead of the signing of the accession treaty. Thank you very much again. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Igor Bavčar, and once again a wax for all the good ahead. We are moving on to the second part of the 26th item on the agenda - dealing with the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint Dr. Janez Potočnik as Minister without a European Affairs Directorate. On the basis of Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed to the Assembly that he appoint Dr. Janez Potočnik as Minister without a director in charge of European affairs. I ask the Prime Minister whether he wishes to base his proposal before the National Assembly. [[He does.]] Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As you have been informed, Mr Igor Bavčar has resigned from the post of Minister for European Affairs. In recent times, Mr Bavčar has done important work in coordinating various activities in our accession process in the European Union, and I think he is quite deserving of Slovenia's doing a lot of work, has completed 26 of the 29 chapters that are in negotiations with the European Union, and has done so as the first of all candidates. We are now in a situation where this process needs to be completed. I'm counting on you to finish it in the year ahead. We now have negotiations on the last three chapters - agriculture, regional policy, budget. In short, three important chapters that have a significant impact on our financial position as future members of the European Union. In this situation, I have considered how to resolve the issue of further management of European affairs and I have decided to propose our main negotiator in the process of adapting to the European Union, Mr Janez Potočnik, as Minister for European Affairs. The dilemma was whether to continue to combine this position with the position of head of the negotiating group. My suggestion is that Mr Potočnik will continue to carry out this function, lead our negotiators in these final negotiations with the European Union and at the same time assume the role of European Minister. It seems to me that this is a rational decision because we anticipate that the negotiations will be concluded in the next three, few months, and I think it would not make sense to continue to have two different functions or two key people to lead this process. In short, at this point, I think that we can bring this together and that Mr Janez Potočnik can complete his negotiating work in the European Union and at the same time take over the post of Minister without a licence, i.e. Minister, who coordinates all European activities in the government, of course, with the participation of all ministers and, of course, also the President. This is the proposal that is before you today, and I think this is the best possible solution in this situation. Mr Janez Potočnik, in the general opinion of our home and abroad, has performed very well to date as the main negotiator with the European Union, and I am convinced that he is suitable for this place where I propose and where I expect your support. I think that in such a charter we will then be able to jointly complete the European process, as I have already said, this year, and thus complete the most important self-sustaining process in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. The candidate, Dr. Potočnik, presented himself to the Commission on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. It follows from the opinion that the presentation of the candidate was appropriate. I ask the chairman of the committee and the chairman of the commission whether they want a word. [[Yes, you do.]] The President, Comrade Kacin and the President, Comrade Peterle, have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u6	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased to report that the Committee on Foreign Policy has unanimously supported the candidate. We are the only Parliament in which the negotiating points are subject to consideration, upgrading and approval before they are presented to the European Commission. Although it seemed at the outset that this additional burden would also result from possible delays, I think it is appropriate to point out at this point that this is one of the major comparative advantages of the Republic of Slovenia compared to other candidates, that Members and Members are therefore most directly involved in this process and therefore are much more involved and this process is also much more transparent for our public. I hope that, therefore, the scope of support for the process of approximation and integration into the European Union in the Republic of Slovenia is significantly greater. There is no doubt that the candidate has outstanding merit. One more time. The Committee on Foreign Policy unanimously supports Dr. Janez Potočnik's candidacy and looks forward to working together on the last three missing chapters, where we expect the negotiating points to be complemented here and there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin. Mr Peterle, President of the European Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! On 18 January, the candidate for the Minister for European Affairs presented himself to the Commission on European Affairs and Knowledge, professionally presenting the situation in which Slovenia is now on its way to its final objective as regards the European Union, and gave particular emphasis to what lies ahead. In this regard, I would like to stress or reiterate his emphasis, which I think is essential for all of us who are involved in this process, that, after we have knocked on this door, there will be an open door or other status in the near future, when we participate in the preparation of the common legal order. In this sense, of course, the European Convention's draft is very important, and we will also decide at this meeting. And I think that this emphasis is really very important because our status will change significantly. So later, we will also be responsible for the whole of which we will join. The Commission gave a positive opinion, with only one pre-announced vote against. I think that this opinion is in line with the truth about the candidate, as well as with our common intention to carry out this joint project of positions and opposition as soon as possible. On this occasion, as President of the European Commission, I would like to thank the Minister, Mr Igor Bavcar, for his exemplary cooperation between the Ministry or between the government and Parliament or the Commission, and I recommend that the Minister, whom I am sure will be elected to continue or improve this policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. I don't think the representative of the secretariat wants a word, so I ask if the representatives of the groups of Members want a word. First, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, he asked his colleague Barovic. Comrade Barovich, you have the floor. Anyone else in this group want a word? [[He does.]] Okay. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, candidate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Allow me, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, to express our opinion and, of course, our decision when we vote, even though this will be secret. First time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u11	The vote is public. The vote on the minister is public.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u12	Excuse me! Firstly, the Slovenian National Party, as you know, is the only party that is not one of the signatories to the other parties, between the signatories and those who wish to join the European Union. Secondly, in the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the way in which Slovenia entered the European Union was such that Slovenia was too weak and that many times the European Union has deceived Slovenia. Thirdly, we estimate that it is wrong to have three of the most difficult chapters ahead of us, agriculture, regional policy and finance, and one person will suddenly have to perform the functions now performed by two, that is, the Minister and the leader of the negotiating group. Fourthly, the Slovenian National Party will insist to its best efforts that the Slovenian nation also express its decision to or against joining the European Union in a referendum. There will probably be three votes against the appointment, Mr. President. So let us, at the end of the day, wish you a successful job and a upright attitude in protecting the interests of the Slovenian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. The views of the Novi Slovenije Group will be presented by a colleague of Dr. Bajuk and will be followed by a colleague of Levič to present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, a colleague of mag. Visa of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, colleague Podobnik of the Group of Members of the People's Party. Please, Dr. Bayuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, I would like to say that we will support this appointment, convinced that the person proposed by the Prime Minister is truly fit for this work. Here too, I would like to thank the outgoing Minister for Cooperation and for the exemplary work, as my colleague Peterla said, concerning cooperation between the government and the State Assembly in this area. We are confident that Dr. Potočnik, if confirmed, will do the same work. Slovenia's entry into integration European flows is crucial for our country from our point of view. We are happy to note that we have done this work faithfully and in adversarial atmosphere so far, and we are confident that we will be able to do it to the end. However, as regards the issue that has already arisen in the public and even today here in this National Assembly, as regards the possible incompatibility of the function of the negotiator and the Minister without a station in the government in this area, we believe that this is no problem. According to our assessment, this is not a problem, even if the time period is wider than it is now, or longer than anticipated so far. So Nova Slovenija, once again, thanks Mr Bavčar and expects Dr. Potočnik to have exactly the same cooperation between the government and the national assembly as we had before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We are in the debate on the appointment of a new minister. Can I have everyone's attention, please? Mr Levič will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, after which he will receive the word of a colleague of mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A nice welcome to the current future minister as well as the Prime Minister! In the Youth Slovenia Party, we will support Dr. Potočnik's candidacy as Minister without a European Affairs Department. We expect him to do his work in this job as well as better as he did the duties of the head of the negotiating group to join the European Union. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree with Mr Potočnik's assessment that the tasks after the closure of the remaining areas will be much more difficult than they were before. For their quality performance, therefore, it is most important to be guided and coordinated by an expert who is familiar with this area in Slovenia and who has actively participated in the process of joining the European Community. Dr. Potočnik, or you will succeed, it's up to you. The fact is that if you succeed, Slovenian citizens in the European Union will see the future, young people will feel that they will live and work successfully in the European Union, and no one will feel like a second-rate citizen. Then in Slovenia, support for entry into the European Union will not be questionable. Otherwise, the public, as well as the Young Slovenia Party, will not be pleasant enough to surprise you. Dear future Minister, good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Comrade Levich. Mag. Vizjak will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. After that, he was a colleague of the SLS Group’s point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished Minister! We will support the proposal in the Social Democratic Party. We will support it in particular because we are going to a new one, I hope that better practice, including in the future, will be appointed by ministers, where such ministers are not conflict-free or on which there is also a rather broad political consensus, especially ministers for such important areas as Slovenia's involvement in European integration. I would welcome this new approach, a new principle and hope that there is no exception. I therefore believe that this can be a positive example for the Prime Minister in further decisions. In short, we believe that Mr Potočnik has done very well the task entrusted to him as a negotiator. Slovenia is the first to complete chapters in the pre-accession negotiations, and this is undoubtedly an appropriate reference and a good reference for the continuation, of course, and for this situation. In short, we will support the proposal in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. Comrade Podobnik, position of the SLS Group of Members, behind him colleague of Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u20	Dear Mr President, distinguished Prime Minister, Mr Bavčar, Dr Potočnik! The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the Prime Minister's proposal to elect Dr Janez Potočnik as a candidate for a minister without a director responsible for European affairs. It rarely happens that there is so much consensus in the National Assembly when the Minister is elected, and that is undoubtedly a good sign because it is a pillar covering European affairs. I would also like to thank Mr Igor Bavčar for his good work so far. To express my wish here in this place, we are joined by our fellow Member, Cebulj, and I have also expressed this position on his behalf. At the meeting, at the presentation of the candidate, which was very substantive, the candidate for a minister answered very well some of the complex questions, particularly the issue of regionalism and the support of the European Union. I would also like to stress his attitude towards dialogue and teamwork. Moreover, although we have always appreciated the political definition in the Group of Members and we are aware that the Minister is a classical political function and that the decision of Dr. Potočnik to remain non-party can be a good exception, as it is a matter of entering the European Union, and this is a question that undoubtedly goes beyond just the political dimension in the Slovenian political space. I wish the Minister a successful job when he is elected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. Comrade Potz, on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, colleague Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u22	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Bavcar, Dr. Janez Potočnik! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support Dr. Janez Potočnik for the Minister without a department responsible for European affairs. We are pleased that, at the election, the appointment of a new Minister in this National Assembly will confirm that the vast majority of the parties represented in the National Assembly will be united that Slovenia's involvement in the European Union and European integration is one of the fundamental strategic issues of our country and that, at this point, there is in particular a clear orientation, a common agreement on the design of this direction and a professional approach to their resolution, which binds us when we decide on such strategic issues. The work of Dr. Janez Potočnik thus far assures us that all these elements are assured. In particular, I would like to point out that the National Assembly and its work, through the cooperation of the home work bodies, is the one who, in fact, in preparing the negotiating points and in the way in which they are implemented, provides an opportunity and an opportunity to influence the content of the decisions, and that the work of Dr. Janez Potočnik has so far demonstrated the full readiness of communication, clear and sincere views and views, professional, reasoned debate, which has also given citizens and citizens of Slovenia the opportunity to do so through us. We are convinced that these starting points ensure full probability and confidence for its continued successful work at a time that is undoubtedly crucial to the final decisions on the entry into the European Union. That is why we will also fully support it. On this occasion, however, allow me to thank Mr Igor Bavčar, on behalf of our Group, for his cooperation and work so far, and wish him much success.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Colleague Poxon. For my colleague Pozsonec, last on my list of applicants to present the views of the parliamentary groups, Comrade Kebric. Now, colleague Pozsonec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Bavcar, Mr. Janez Potočnik! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Bavčar for his work together and wish him much success on the way forward. On behalf of Hungarian nationality, I will support the candidate for Minister with a light heart. I believe that the Prime Minister, Mr Drnovšek, had a happy hand in choosing a candidate for the Minister for European Affairs. In the person of Mr Potočnik we will not buy a 'cat in a frog', because he has demonstrated in the past years that he is penetrating, successful, reliable and working. I'm sure he'll be as good a minister as he was a negotiator. However, as Minister for European Affairs, he will have other areas of work. I deeply hope that he will do all he can to ensure that Pomurje does not slip into an ever-increasing backlog, that life on the left bank of Mura will be sustainable, gradually rich and European comparable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much, colleague Pozsonec. Mr Kebrich will present the views of the DeSUS Group. We will then turn to the debate of MEPs and Members. You have the floor, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u26	Mr President, the distinguished Prime Minister, Minister Bavcar, today! In the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will be happy to support your candidacy. Why? In particular, because you have convinced us in the working bodies of the National Assembly, where Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia are participating, that you have demonstrated your expertise, diligence, real assessment of the possibility, where and how far we can go with your demands and how far we have to accept certain conditions. We believe that you are very busy, that you are eager and that you will also be able to do both the Minister for European Affairs and that further work awaits you to close the remaining three chapters. However, on behalf of our parliamentary group and all the democratic parties of pensioners, we are pleased that we are pleased with his work so far, that we acknowledge him and wish him a wealth of economic and other achievements on a new path in the economy. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. Mr Anderlich, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u28	In the Group of Liberal Democracy, we were not thrilled when Mr Bavčar announced that he was leaving, because we felt that this work, which had been done in the last period and, of course, also in previous mandates, had been done with his help that the one that had given some tone had given a mark on all our efforts to join the European Union, in particular and of course in other areas. That is why we regret this, of course, and we thank him for his creative cooperation. We think he'll be successful in another area where he's going. However, that the solution proposed by the Prime Minister for the new Minister is appropriate, and that this is not the first candidate in his governments to be non-party, only proves that it is so for him, for the government and for the party in particular what needs to be done in a particular area and that the best solutions are chosen, and at this point it is certainly an optimal solution by appointing Dr. Potočnik as Minister for European Affairs without a source. Of course, the Group of Members will also support this candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. Thus, the views were presented by all the groups of Members. I ask Members and Members if they want a word. I'm limiting it to five minutes. A colleague of Peterle, a colleague of Dr. Bernick's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I would just like to say that the Minister for European Affairs is not a reserve foreign minister, nor is competition to the foreign minister, but will be a key internal minister in the next two years. That is how I understand his role, given that he will have to coordinate the extremely difficult work of all government departments from a European perspective. And I want Dr. Potočnik's particularly happy hand in speeding up the final work on the sub-laws, because I think we still have a lot of work to do here, and we haven't replaced all the delays on this subject yet. I stress this particularly because I do not imagine, given the statements made by the key people of the European Union, that in the grand final we could count on any special leave or discounts, given the criticism that remains in the European Commission's report on our progress ahead of the final. This I think is a legitimate emphasis before I hope that this objective will be met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. Comrade Dr. Bernick, you have the floor. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Bavcar, Dr. Potočnik! Much was said about the work so far and much about how Dr. Potočnik worked or worked. I agree with all of this. But I'm not going to keep saying they won't have to take over. But I do have two recommendations and then another personal comment. Firstly, I wish the Minister a great deal of success in his work in the economic field, and I also hope that he will be able to contribute to making petrol more competitive with us. Good luck with that. As far as Mr Potočnik is concerned, I would recommend that he begin to think about it, or that he attracts civil society somewhat more than ever before, so that we will truly cooperate with all citizens or have the opportunity of all citizens. Finally, the recommendation to Dr. Potočnik. I hope you don't have to get any worse than you have before to get enough sleep, but I know this is incompatible. How you handle this, you'll have to think carefully. But good luck with your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? He does. Comrade Jelinčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Both myself and all Slovenian national parties have always been critical of entering Europe. We have looked under the fingertips of the Minister so far, and we will look under the fingertips of the future minister, who will certainly be elected today. So, Mr. Minister, you know that you are under the magnifying glass, you know that we will look at every step of you at every moment and that we will alert you to the mistakes that have already been made and that will probably also be done. We are certainly not in favour of favouring European interests over national interests. No, and we still think that Europe treats Slovenia neo-colonialistically when it tries to force its private economic interests into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in one way or another. So, Minister, beware of the Slovenian National Party! To the former minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u35	Threats are forbidden.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u36	And one request. [[...]] It was said to make gasoline competitive. We are against this in the Slovenian National Party. Mr. Minister, I hope you don't raise the price of gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u37	This is not the subject of debate. Anyone else want a word? I'm asking again, anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I ask, does the Prime Minister want to speak again? [[He doesn't want to.]] Is there a candidate for minister, Dr. Potočnik? [[He doesn't either.]] It takes into account the amendment to Rule 265 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly adopted on 30 May 2000 and, pursuant to Rule 87(1) of the Rules of Procedure, will vote in public on the proposal for the appointment of a Minister. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to appoint Dr. Janez Potočnik as Minister without a portfolio responsible for European affairs. At the same time, I would like to point out that the assembly in this mandate is acting by a simple majority, that is by a majority of the votes cast by the Members present. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the Prime Minister's proposal to appoint Dr. Janez Potočnik as Minister. Please. There are 75 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 71 Members and Members voted in favour, 3 against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has a new minister, Dr. Janez Potočnik, responsible for European affairs. I'm asking the Minister to swear in front of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u38	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u39	Congratulations, Minister! Allow me to reiterate, in the light of the debate and the vote, that it is of utmost importance that today the State Assembly, with such a majority, has supported the Minister in this important area, and I wish him all the best in the performance of his new responsibility. I also conclude this item on the agenda. Given that Mr Igor Bavčar has resumed his duties as a Member in accordance with the Law on Members, I am adjourning the meeting for 15 minutes in order to meet the Commission on Immunity and draw up an appropriate conclusion. The mandate-immunity committee will meet in a large salon in five minutes, and we will meet again at the 11 a.m. meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u40	Colleagues, please take your seats. I would also like to be joined by the rapporteur of the Commission on Mandate and Immunity, my colleague Peca. We're in the middle of finding out who's in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present in the Chamber; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. We are moving on to a briefing by the assembly on the report of the Commissioner-immunity commission on the termination of the duties of Member, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. I'm asking the president, does he want a word? [[He does.]] Please, Mr President, Immunity Commission, colleague of Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u41	Your Honors are here! At today's regular meeting, the Commission, which has just completed its work, adopted two conclusions relating to our previous item, namely the appointment of a new Minister and the resignation of the previous Minister. Both conclusions are linked. The first points out that Mr Bavcar, who has completed his term of office, can begin to serve as a Member of Parliament. In this regard, we have received a letter with the content that Mr Bavčar is giving up his post. In view of the fact that the Commission must also obtain the opinion of the national electoral commission on the replacement mandate, which means who will replace the Member or Minister, Mr Bavčar, the Commission has adopted only the two necessary decisions for the time being. And tomorrow the commission will meet again, so tomorrow, I hope, we'll be in full membership. I therefore propose that the two conclusions, which I stress are of a finding nature, be adopted by the State assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission on Mandate and Immunity. On the basis of that and in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, the National Assembly was informed of the following conclusion: "On 24 January 2002, Mr Igor Bavčar ceased to serve as the Minister without a department responsible for European affairs and, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, he shall resume his duties as a Member and shall therefore cease to serve as Member of the Parliament, Mr Roman Jakič." Since the Member, Mr Igor Bavčar, has made a statement that he has resigned as a Member, we are moving on to the conclusion that the term of office of a Member of the National Assembly has expired: "The Ambassador of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Igor Bavčar, made a statement on 24 January 2002 to resign as a Member." The Commission discussed the withdrawal declaration. On the basis of that and in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members and Article 248, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly took note of the conclusion: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Mr Igor Bavčar made a statement on 24 January 2002 that he no longer intends to act as a Member, as he will assume a position that is incompatible with the function of a Member in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore, in accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 248, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the fifth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members shall terminate the mandate of today." This conclusion will inform the Republican Electoral Commission, which will communicate to the national assembly the name of the candidate who will replace the Member who has terminated his term of office. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda, colleague and colleague. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item - Defence proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a candidate for a judge at the International Maritime Law Court in Hamburg. I welcome the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Ribarič. On the basis of Article 6 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to the National Assembly that Dr Mark Pavli be elected as a candidate for judge at the International Court of Law of the Sea in Hamburg. Does the representative of the President's office want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission as the working body of the mother. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] Do government representatives want a word? [[They don't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. That is why I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. In accordance with Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the National Assembly on the election of a candidate for judge at the International Court of Law of the Sea in Hamburg shall vote in secret. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret ballot shall be held by the Presidents-in-Office, with the assistance of the Secretary-General of the State Assembly and the four Members elected by the State Assembly on my proposal. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for members of the Commission. These are my colleagues Moga, Kelemina, Yuri and Rokavec, and me as president. Does anyone object? [[Nobody.]] Then we move on to a decision on the composition of the commission. Please speak of her. 61 colleagues and colleagues are present. 58 were in favour, no one voted against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by giving its name and surname. The Member who will assist him in the voting shall deliver a vote to each Member and the Secretary-General of the State Assembly shall indicate on the name and surname of the Member on the list that the vote has been delivered to him. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot that is not completed in accordance with the instructions referred to above shall be invalid. In accordance with Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the candidate will be elected as a judge at the International Maritime Law Court in Hamburg, if voted for by a majority of all Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the voting box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. Ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to a secret ballot. I'm asking the committee to help me vote to report to the parlour immediately, where we'll take over the election material. The vote will begin at 11.35 a.m. So 11:35, and it'll take until 11:50. After the vote, we will meet again in the big salon. So, I'm adjourning the session. I'm inviting the committee to meet in the big salon. At 11.35 the vote will begin, it will take 15 minutes, until 11.50 hours. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. Then we will announce the results, very quickly, at 12:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u43	The National Assembly is not yet concluded, but I already have a record of the outcome of the vote. This would allow us to complete this agenda item and move on to 7. Please kindly let your colleagues and colleagues come to the hall. Colleagues and colleagues, if you can take your seats, I'll try to determine the presence in the hall. If everyone were to press the quorum key, the National Assembly could be concluded and then it could continue its work. Please check if you can report your presence by pressing the quorum key. Please. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The National Assembly is therefore concluded and may decide. Allow me to introduce you to the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the election of the candidate for judge at the International Maritime Law Court in Hamburg. The vote was held on 24 January 2002 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 77 ballots were distributed. 77 ballots were delivered, and one voice was invalid. There were 76 valid ballots. 76 Members and Members voted in favour, and no one was against it. On the basis of this outcome of the vote, he was elected candidate for judge at the International Court of Law of the Sea in Hamburg, Dr Marko Pavliha. On behalf of the National Assembly, we congratulate him for his election. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you very much, Dr. Fisherman. Colleagues and colleagues, this concludes the agenda item We're moving to seven. Agenda item 2 - Second defence proposal of the National Road Safety Programme in the Republic of Slovenia. Between us, I welcome the representative of the government, the minister. The proposal for a national programme was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the Minister want a word? Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? [[Yes, you do.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present some news on the national transport safety programme for the second reading. As you know, in preparing this programme, we have taken into account the analysis of the transport safety situation in the Republic of Slovenia, the typical transport problems of Slovenia, and in particular the many directives of the European Union and the resolution of the Council of the European Union, as well as the strategic road safety plan of the countries of the European Union, which the European Council produced in 1997. In addition, we have followed a number of national programmes of the Member States of the European Union, such as Austria, Sweden, Ireland, the Netherlands and so on. Why we need a national programme and what its objectives are, we have defined in more detail in the text itself and have also discussed this in the first reading. The essence of this programme, as you know, is that for the three most frequent participants in traffic accidents, i.e. pedestrians, cyclists and young drivers of passenger cars, it produces precise targets, time-bound and with carriers defined. The new text for second reading is that the text is also accompanied by a programme of actions and activities at a fully operational level. It is therefore essential for the programme in the second reading that it is much more concrete, much more operational, which in fact required discussion. Operational and specific in terms of "walker, biker and young driver" projects, as well as "speed and alcohol" projects. This is the five sub-projects of the programme, whose implementation over the next period is expected to ensure that the number of deaths on Slovenian roads will be halved by 2005. This is, as you know, one of the main objectives of this programme. That's what I'd say. Some concrete initiatives that have been put forward by the honourable Members and Members in the debate on the first reading are included. I can say that all initiatives or proposals are included. I should like to point out perhaps only the construction of the technical culture stadium, what I have already mentioned, the specificisation of individual projects, the redesignation of the prevention and road transport education world into a stand-alone organisation. We also cleared up some of the constitutional issues that some of you thought were controversial and the issues related to the relationship between central and local authorities, in short, ministries and municipalities. It may also be among the more important news that we have more clearly defined a single data system for transport safety, which will cover statistics on traffic accidents, their locations, participants, injuries, the treatment of participants, actions by judicial authorities, roads, weather and other data. In short, we have strengthened that part about the establishment of a single information system. Our assessment is that we have fully summed up the debate and taken it into account in the updated text. In this contribution, however, I would like to provide some more information on transport safety last year or at the beginning of this year, particularly in order to reinforce the importance of the document that we are discussing today or in other readings. Let me say that in 2001, however, traffic safety has been slightly improved in relation to the previous year. The number of fatal accidents in 2001 was 243, as opposed to 290 in the year before, which is 16% less than in the same period in 2000. The number of traffic accidents with serious injuries was 8956, which is 8% higher.This means that the number of fatalities is decreasing and the number of accidents with severe injuries is increasing. For the minor, the number of accidents with material injury is less than 30232 in 2001. And this information. In those accidents I mentioned last year, 278 people died on our roads, 11% less than a year before 315 people died. This is said to have killed 278 people in 243 fatalities. Also severely injured is 1% less than in the same period of the previous year. In addition, he may be injured in all these accidents by 11% more than in the same period in 2000. It could therefore be said that transport security is improving, but that a systematic, long-term, high-quality strategy and state-level activity are still needed to overcome the unfavourable and unfavourable security conditions that are still below European averages. However, I would like to draw particular attention to the situation this year in January. You certainly know and certainly have been surprised by the tragic information that in the first 15 days of this January, 17 fatalities were on our roads, almost doubling according to the same period last year, when during this period, the first 15 days of January, 9 dead on our roads. Of course, it is not an indicator of some emerging situation, but it has also seriously warned the authorities to deal with all the causes of such tragic consequences. Let me say that we have already organised interdepartmental meetings at our Ministry, especially with the Ministry of Transport and Communications, to identify certain measures and also prepare specific information for the government. In particular, we intend to strengthen the promotion activities and encourage further activities of the Road Traffic Prevention Education Council in order to halt such a potential trend that I hope does not announce the initial period of this year. I propose that you discuss the revised text of the programme, support it and thus establish the conditions for the final adoption of this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. The proposal for a national programme was addressed by the Internal Policy Committee. Would you like a representative of the committee, the rapporteur, a word? [[He does.]] The Vice-President of the Internal Policy Committee, Comrade Rupar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 16th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy considered a proposal for a national programme on road transport protection in the Republic submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the second reading. In addition to the debaters, members and members of the Committee, representatives of the Auto-Moto Association of Slovenia, the representative of the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council and others participated in the debate. Members and Members of Parliament have adopted several amendments, which we propose as amendments to the Committee, and we ask for confirmation. Finally, we have adopted a decision which reads as follows: In view of the above decisions of the Committee on Internal Policy of the National Assembly, the Committee proposes to adopt a proposal for a national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia, the second considers, together with the amendments it has proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. Please. My colleague Zupanova, you have the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Then any of the other members of the group would like a word? [[Yeah.]] Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a national programme seeks to identify key problems such as speed, driving under the influence of alcohol, and gives particular emphasis to pedestrians, cyclists and young drivers. Its main purpose is to reduce the number of road traffic fatalities. Every traffic accident we see is a warning and a warning. The first days of this year, as Mr Minister has already said, are black as regards the number of deaths in road accidents. By January 13, 13 people had died on the roads. We remembered most about New Year's Eve when five people died. Recently, at the end of the week, six lives were extinguished. Unfortunately, celebrations are largely linked to drinking alcohol, which often ends up on the road with tragic consequences. This is also indicated by the fact that drivers under the influence of alcohol on our roads cause every third fatal accident. The reason is also found in the fact that Slovenians drink about 50 litres of alcohol per capita, which ranks us third in Europe. The objective circumstances of evil caused by such dependence are statistical, economic, social, social and otherwise enormous. But more difficult is when we want to understand why and when we want to limit this evil as individuals and society. Alcoholism is morally and spiritually controversial before it starts killing on the roads and beating families because it evaluates the specificity and uniqueness of living. Psychologists have found that Slovenians in traffic are impatient, intolerant and aggressive. Driver's culture is bad and traffic is so much more a reflection of the tendency to kill each other. Our behavior is suicidal, and on the other hand, we're too sensitive. Remember, after the adoption of the Road Traffic Safety Act, people were at first afraid, the accidents were smaller, but things were soon running on the old tracks. Therefore, as legislators, we are obliged to consider how the security system should be complemented and upgraded. Sanctions are short-term tasks, but even more important are long-term tasks. This is awareness and information and education in schools and schools. Especially in high school, when it comes to feeling the lack of that teaching when a child becomes a responsible person. But we simply think that it is a need for education for life, for this life, which is nice and difficult at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Diaction, and he will present the views of the youth party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. We support the proposal for a national road safety programme in the youth party. We see it as a hard-to-see document in which we want to establish a systematic strategy for improving road safety in Slovenia, set concrete measurable goals or results as well as technical measures and mandate holders to achieve them. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree that education and education, technical measures, supervision of safety and legal standards, research on road safety, media activities and other measures are aimed at changing transport safety attitudes and behaviours, the most important tool the country can use to greatly help ensure that its citizens are safe in transport. Systemic solutions that will accurately identify measures to protect the safety of the most exposed categories of road users, pedestrians, cyclists and young passenger car drivers should be targeted at the direction of the best possible participation of all competent operators who will implement the measures, as this will only ensure the success of the objectives set. In addition to the programme exposed to the two most common causes of traffic accidents, such as speed and alcohol, we also draw attention to the extremely poor road transport infrastructure in the young party. Weak roads, shortages of sidewalks, cycling paths, unprotected pedestrian crossings are essential causes in a large number of accidents. We therefore believe that a country must define them without shame in a document such as the national road safety programme. These facts, supported by statistical evidence and professional arguments, will also provide a much better basis for deciding on the allocation of the necessary resources to improve road transport infrastructure. We must be aware that the local communities that know these problems best do not have the means to address all critical shortcomings themselves. In a desire for the successful and rapid realization of the stated objectives of the national programme, which in this case appears to be the most tragic criterion in the victims of traffic accidents, we will support the proposal of the national programme in the Party of Youth Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your position, colleague Diaci. Mr Vukko will present the views of the LDS Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you, President. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are convinced that the Republic of Slovenia needs such a programme, which is proposed, especially if we want to approach the European Union countries in terms of transport security. We estimate that the national road safety programme is good mainly because, for the first time, it is interdisciplinary, secondly because it is complex, it has clearly defined objectives as well as measures. In particular, it seems important to us that the national programme shares the responsibility for transport security among the various authorities, and this is not left to the police alone. In the LDS Group, we hope that the national road safety programme and its implementation will contribute to greater traffic safety on our roads and that fewer road users will die on our roads, which is and must be our common goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Comrade Wolf. Kolega Jelinčič, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, the proposal for a national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia is only the beginning of a broader and more thorough work in this area. I think there must be quite a number of different segments of life and the actions involved and involved in this national programme. In the Slovenian national party we support this programme, of course, because it makes sense, but at the same time we also point out that this is not just the beginning. This national programme should be the basis for the development of a comprehensive national programme that would take up or cover opinions from different spheres of Slovenian action, as well as from different levels of action - what is it already called?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u55	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u56	Civil society representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u57	Bravo!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you. We Slovenians are just like other Europeans in traffic. We are no different from them in any segment, so we do not agree to characterize Slovenians as suicidal drivers, as drunk drivers or anything like that. The consumption of alcohol in Slovenia is not so large that it could be hung on a large bell, we are finally on the European average. Extremes that are taking place in Slovenia are also happening in Europe. The difference is for sure that we are the only European country to carry out occasional or random checks on drivers just as when police officers, when they have no other job, stop people on the road and then, to a large extent, are sometimes above them. Such a preventive, as they say, Europe's actions do not know but Europe knows a different starting point. This is the starting point of criminal policy when it is found that, in the case of alcoholisation, the driver is, for the first time, much more severely punished, and for the second time, simply cannot enforce this insurance claim on the issue of insurance. I think we should take this into account in some future reflection and in the new, extended national road safety programme. The fact is that the reduction in speed, which was earlier than 60 kilometers per hour, to 50 kilometers per hour, did not bring any improvement in the country. It improved perhaps the first ten, fifteen days or two months, later it turned out that this measure was completely useless, even more, non-lifely, because when they had already reduced the speed to 50 kilometres per hour, the infrastructure in the cities did not arrange for this speed for any semphoric complexes, so that the green wave is in Ljubljana when you drive between 80 and 90 km per hour, and never at 50 km per hour, which, of course, also belongs in that segment of economic activity, because at least twice as much gasoline is consumed, because at each light it is necessary to stand. And not only the use of gasoline, but also the ecological burden of the environment is greatly increased. In addition, we belong to the Slovenian National Party, in order to change some non-lifes, I could even say stupid articles in the transport law. One of these is certainly the one that determines from which date winter tires should be available. This is also a unique one in Europe, because elsewhere they regulate this issue by adjusting traffic, but we have taken it from the former Yugoslav people's army, which said "Winter uniform is worn from 11 September to 22 May of the following year". If at that time there were 40 degrees Fahrenheit of heat, it didn't matter to anyone. You had to wear a winter uniform, if you were to "screw" in it. I think this comparison is completely sustainable, and it would make sense to settle this in a different way. After all, if we look in Cyprus, I could almost certainly argue, Mr Minister, that they do not need winter tyres. However, the law applies to the whole country. There are exceptions, but within these exceptions, a policeman can still punish someone in Cyprus. Another issue is that, which makes no sense in this law, the rule that professional drivers must have 0.0 alcohol alcohol in their blood, but we agree in principle in the Slovenian National Party. However, we do not agree with the result when a professional truck driver drives a moped and gets it to have 0.2 alcohol passes and take away his license for a professional truck ride. That's something like that. We should then draw a parallel with other general transport participants in Slovenia. And you should, say, if you get on a moped with 0.5 of alcohol in the blood of a passenger jet pilot, then you get him a professional license. Or, if they get someone who drives a motorboat, who also needs a test, drives with some alcohol in his blood, they should also get him permission to drive a moped, a motorcycle, a car, a bus, a truck, and what else do I know? In short, these cases are certainly part of the national road safety programme in Slovenia. There's something else I'd like to point out. Transport security depends largely on infrastructure. A huge number of victims have picked up unprotected railway crossings and nothing has been done in this area. That is why I think that the Ministry of Transport and Communications should also be included here in order to regulate these matters. It is also necessary to regulate the infrastructure in general here, so I think that our National Assembly should do something to make the road cross in Slovenia faster so that the money does not flow unknowablely, to work in accordance with Slovenian national interests, which of course brings up another issue, that even because of the safety of road traffic, it would not be put into the construction of various tunnels for Italians when it was shown that they were implanting poorer quality cement and that one Slovak worker in the tunnel had almost lost his life because he had torn a piece from the ceiling and fell right in front of it. As a basis of this proposal, the Slovenian National Party supports the National Road Safety Programme in the Republic of Slovenia. However, the Minister for Home Affairs is certainly still working very hard to include in the next programme an extended programme, which must be based on the starting points of all aspects of Slovenian life, and is still quite busy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčich. Does any other group wish to present its position? The DeSUS Group wants it. Comrade Pohorec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. We also join in adopting this national road safety programme to create a better situation, less dead, less damaged, less consequences for our society. We support most of these measures. Above all, I think that it is one of our basic, perhaps Slovenian faults, that we do not respect what we write down. However, at least to me, it also raises the question whether what we have written has been written rationally, professionally, seriously, and just as it knows things to develop the world. I'm going to give you a few examples that point me to that. I live close to the border and I am quite often also on those sides of the border, the same road, the same type of settlement, with us 50 restrictions and from Maribor to Lendava you can no longer drive anywhere, for example, on the lower side of the Mura, on the Austrian side 70, otherwise the settlement, also concentrated, even more narrowly, the restriction with the extra board, we hardly know this, although the conditions are the same. On the road Šentilj-Maribor there is one bend 50 kilometers of mention, but 500 meters ahead of the curve and also 500 meters behind the curve to make room for radar so that it can be stopped and cashed there. I don't know if I have to drive another 500 meters when I'm already behind the bend. Some things literally get us drivers off the track, so to speak, we're confused. We feel that we can drive safely differently, but this simple regulation limits and is likely to result in accidents. I do not know if this part of the evaluation in this strategy is covered. I think that we should also assess all of these matters that we have prescribed for ourselves, in order to be safer, whether they have really helped to make security bigger, or whether they have the opposite effects. Otherwise, we support the need to get alcohol off the road because alcohol does not belong to the steering wheel. We should be more consistent here or more, I'd say, consistent. The issue of punishment policy is also raised. If the entrepreneur fails to pay the tax, he gets late interest. We give him, if he commits a crime, a 50% discount first, and if he doesn't pay it in time, only that whole part, and if he doesn't pay it at all, most of us or many of us don't find it. Is that right? However, this driver, who has committed three, four, five such offences, has not paid the fine, we extend the driver's license, we extend the registration, we give him all of this, so the state offers a comprehensive service so that he can act the same on the road tomorrow, so that no one can do anything to him anymore. It would therefore also suggest that these issues should be analysed and included in the final text of this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, Comrade Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable all together! In principle, the Social Democratic Party supports the concept of a national road safety programme and we believe that things are relatively well defined and that the impact will then be effective in implementing this national programme. These are our basic expectations, as well as the guidelines that we agree with. However, on behalf of the Group of Members, I would point to certain, after our assessment, shortcomings or possible inconsistencies in this national programme. In fact, at the first reading, we have also warned our parliamentary group and individuals, as well as other representatives of the parliamentary groups and individual Members, that this national programme has somehow failed to take into account the factor of the technically inadequate road infrastructure in Slovenia, which, according to our assessment, would lead to a large number of road accidents, which otherwise would not have occurred if this technical equipment of our road infrastructure were appropriate, at a higher level, certainly not many accidents in Slovenia. Many have already pointed to this and would ask the proposer on behalf of the parliamentary group why we have not put these things as one of the important reasons for ensuring road safety in this national programme. We have pointed to this, as I said, at first reading, and these things are partly taken into account, for example, in some places where it is said that, for example, to increase safety, it is necessary to build transport infrastructure and so on, for pedestrians, bikers and so on, in actions or projects and key measures. However, there is no indication from the national programme itself how these funds will be provided in order to achieve, for the first time, appropriate arrangements in this area, as well as the impact that would then, on the basis of those analyses you have made in this national programme, have also been able to see that technical equipment, adequate road infrastructure, has contributed to road safety. Here you also mentioned, for example, financial resources, that ministries will provide certain funds, about 3.5 billion per year, so quickly calculated, of course, for the implementation of this programme, but absolutely nothing is foreseen and it is not specified how we will speed up the elimination of the technical inadequacy of the construction of our road infrastructure. Otherwise, this is imposed as if these things would be carried out by the Ministry of Transport, but our personal assessment is that this should be included in the national programme. We do not know why this is not defined at present, and then I would ask the applicant to explain whether we may not even tell our citizens that the most important cause of traffic accidents in Slovenia is actually technically inadequate road infrastructure, or whether we should not tell Europe or even the world. If you remember, these things remind us, they have warned us, and I know that we have received a warning from the European Community that we have poor transport infrastructure. Other countries also point out in our country's tourism presentations that in fact road infrastructure in Slovenia is extremely poor. The fact is, on a narrow roadway where there is no room for almost two passenger cars to cross, then if there is a heavy truck and maybe even a trailer and a passenger car, and there is no pedestrian or a biker there, even the banks are not so arranged. We know that vehicles are not suitable because they are sedentary because they are bumps, because they are comfortable and so on, where the truck, the car, whatever, if the speed is allowed, for example, 70 km/h, such speed is not at all, this technical ability of this road is not enough to allow even the speed allowed on this road. It doesn't allow it. I can prove that to you, no matter how many cases. There it would be necessary to reduce the speed even to 30 km if we wanted this truck or car not to roll left and right, up and down so that this car would then get quite safely gripped by the vehicles and that even then that pedestrian and the biker and whoever is on the road would be as safe. It is also a matter of technical implementation itself that the real materials on our roads are not appropriate. These things should be whether they belong in the national programme or not, you will say, but in fact it is true that our material structure is inadequate. This is a typical case. I can only tell you one case. For example, if you make a final layer of limestone material on the road, you can see for yourself, which is of course extremely soft, then over time, regardless of whether it is crushed, surface, surface of hunger, asphalt is wiped out and remains extremely smooth. This is an example, for example, in Dubrovnik, when, say, limestone, marble is laid on the ground, when people with traffic, walking, "glimmering" like ice, so to speak. And in every tiniest rain, it's dewing and so on, it's a real rink. So the structure of the materials is no longer appropriate. We should not allow the structure of the materials on the final layers, which are as powerfully wearable and which cause such large slips as we do. Today, we know that everyone is in a hurry to get from one end to the other, that time is extremely precious and important, and at a slightly higher rate, or even at the speed allowed, the technical ability of the road does not withstand that speed. This is a fact, and I would, of course, ask, on behalf of the Group of Members, why these things are not included and why measures and all the other consequences resulting from this are not included in this national programme or where we should then process these things. One of the important things, let's say in the introduction, where you also mention that two of the most common causes of traffic accidents, namely speed and alcohol, would certainly also have to be added due to the modernity and the problem that is becoming increasingly common, including drugs. These things will be, they will already be, and they will be even more relevant in the future, and it might also be right to add these things. Although we are now at second reading, when several amendments have been tabled, perhaps we in the parliamentary group have not responded to all these things and we have not made all these comments in the amendments themselves. However, we have not given them in particular because, somehow, the drafter has not already leaned on or taken into account or has not identified himself to include these elements in the national programme, which we are thinking about in our group. I'd ask if I could answer those questions. In principle, we will support this proposal for a national programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. On behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. The UK Group of Social Democrats will support the national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia at second reading. It will also support the amendments adopted by the Committee, since they are essentially complementary to the national programme with those comments already expressed in most cases at first reading or expressing the majority opinion of the Committee. We believe that the national road safety programme is based on statistically identifiable data on the underlying causes of poor safety and for the large number of human victims taken by our roads and for the great economic damage caused by it. As it builds and foresees measures to increase safety on our roads, I would like to point out that perhaps one category of those who are the most frequent victims and represent, in fact, the most vulnerable group in the transport sector alongside children, and perhaps these measures for this endangered group are not so convincing or are so strongly highlighted in the national programme. I am talking about a group of older pedestrians and cyclists, whom I doubt that a more favourable situation is possible, a reduction in the number of accidents is linked to road training. Otherwise, as we say, our parliamentary group is aware of the importance of the act that we are concluding and deciding and will therefore support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you, colleague mag. Spending. With this, I understand, we have exhausted the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual chapters of the proposal. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the chapters be discussed and voted together on the remaining chapters to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. I will put this proposal to the vote. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Yes, you do. Please. About what? Is this a proposal for a decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u66	The question was specifically addressed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u67	You'll get your word later. I thought you wanted a word on the motion for a decision. We're in second gear. You'll have a word later if you want, but you can't have it right now. Someone would like a word on this proposal for a decision. Please, mate Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u68	Now, if I didn't understand correctly, I thought I was talking as a Member of Parliament. Sorry. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u69	No, you can't. Let me do it again. I will propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and chapters, the National Assembly shall discuss and vote together on the remaining chapters to which the amendments have not been tabled. It is this procedural proposal, which we usually take to facilitate our decision-making on the proposal. Otherwise, I doubt we're here right now and we're a few minutes away from 1300 hours. I will put this proposal to the vote. At the same time, we will find out whether there are enough of us in the hall to continue the session. If she doesn't, we'll interrupt her and continue at 2.30 p.m. No, there's not enough of us. Since it's only a few minutes till 1:00, I'm gonna call it off. We'll continue at 2.30 p.m. Please, because I have a proposal - at this time I received it from one of the parliamentary groups, regarding tomorrow's meeting - I suggest that we meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups at 14.15 hours in room 217 for ten minutes. Once again, the leaders of the parliamentary groups at 14.15 in 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u70	Respected and respected! We continue with the afternoon session. I would like to inform you that you are further excused for the continuation of the 12th session of 24.1.2002 Silva Montenegro from 12.00 p.m. on and Bojan Kontič from 16.00 p.m. on. Since we're going to be present, I'd like to ask your attention. We're detecting a presence. There are 46 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We're in the morning work. I'm sorry. [[...]] The President of the National Assembly will inform us of an agreement to attend a college or a meeting with the President of the National Assembly before we move to a closed point. Mr. Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u71	I think it's right, Madam Vice President - thank you for your word! - that colleagues and colleagues know of this arrangement concerning tomorrow's session and interpretation. In order to avoid the complication we witnessed on Tuesday with regard to questions sent and initiatives, with procedural proposals, we have today agreed unanimously on the following. First of all, we begin tomorrow at 10 a.m., as agreed, with the point of responsibility of Minister Kopač. We'll continue the session without a break until 2 p.m. Then we will adjourn the meeting, continue on Tuesday at 2 p.m., and continue the meeting until the end of this item. That's the deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The 7th item of the agenda was suspended in the morning's part by the President of the assembly, proposing that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the chapters be closed and that he vote together on the remaining chapters to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on the proposal for a procedural decision. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual chapters and amendments tabled. We will help ourselves with the report on the proposal of the National Road Safety Programme of the Internal Policy Committee of 14 January 2002, where the Committee adopted amendments following the discussion. There are no other amendments. Subsequent numbers 2, 3 and 4 of this report include the amendments adopted by the Committee and proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. I am putting the chapter "Introduction" and the two amendments of the Committee to this chapter into discussion and decision-making. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. If I touch solely on the introduction that we can discuss at this time, I might take this opportunity to ask the Minister that, at this point, in an introduction where I also think he would, as well as our Group of Members, it is necessary to include some additional matters or what I have already said and what we have already proposed in the first reading to include in this proposal of the national programme. I would like to hear the reasons or opinions of the Government why these things were not taken into account in this part of the introduction of this national programme. However, as regards the other amendments proposed in Chapter I, the introduction, I agree, in essence, that certain things are deleted or added as proposed. I have no personal comments on this content alone. However, I would really like an answer if it could be included by the Minister now to answer the questions that have already been raised in the debate. As a matter of procedure, the Minister did not have this right, but now he has it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u74	I apologize, Mr Kelemina, of course Mr Minister has the opportunity to discuss, but of course in this amendment, the content that is before us. In the general debate, the Minister certainly had procedural options. She's got one, too. And if he didn't use it, he obviously estimated that he didn't have to do the job where he had the opportunity to answer in the first part of the debate. Surely, however, Mr Minister, at the time of the chapter which is open to us, this is an introduction, which can explain to Mr Kelemini. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u75	In fact, I wanted to clarify that the issue that the honourable Member was talking about, as a condition for ensuring transport safety, we have already paid attention to the issue of technical infrastructure in the document itself. Perhaps not in the way a fellow Member would have wanted to, but still. I would like to draw attention to page 8 where guidance is given, or the obligation, what projects should be like, those five projects that we are always talking about. Point A explicitly commands that each project must also contain technical measures or, as we say here, engineering. In particular, I would also like to point out that for each of the five projects in general, there is also a requirement for technical or infrastructure salaries. In the proposal for concrete actions or individual projects, this is the last part of the document that we have prepared from the first to the second reading, where specific measures are mentioned, but the technical measures chapters detail in detail what measures we have in mind for individual projects. I would like to say that in the project Speed is explicitly listed, for example, the introduction of variable traffic signalling traffic signs, adjusted for traffic flows, the increase in pedestrian areas in the populated areas, the construction of cycling routes along roads, the construction of sidewalks, the construction of platforms and thresholds, the increased number of circular crossings, the video surveillance system, the installation of speed control systems, etc. Similarly, these measures in this additional material are worked out by the Pesec project and the cyclist. For example, I would like to draw attention to the following technical measures: the construction of point measures, pedestrian crossings, cyclists, the construction of spatial measures, a safe journey to school, a pedestrian area, a residential area, the construction of general measures and lighting, pedestrian corridors, circulars, cycling infrastructure, etc., not to mention all of this in detail. I would only like to argue that we are aware of the great importance of the technical infrastructure for transport safety and that we have come from this knowledge in the design of this programme, and in this part I only associate myself with the position expressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendments to Chapter Introduction. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on Chapter I. Introduction as a whole. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the chapter has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Chapter II. - Objectives, projects, key actions - two amendments have been tabled. These are all amendments to the board, so I don't repeat myself. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We're still deciding on an amendment under two. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. I think there's enough of us in the hall to be sure we're done. That's why I'm asking for your attention. Only the pressure on any of the keys, of course, gives the vote that is valid. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under order number 2. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on Chapter 2 in full. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the chapter has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Chapter III. Identification of key organisational and functional problems and strategic plan and two amendments to this chapter. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We're voting on amendment number two. Let's vote! Not enough attention again. The second time we will vote on the amendment under order number 2. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We are also deciding on the third chapter in its entirety. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the third chapter has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on chapter 7 of the Committee's constitution and amendments to this chapter. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're still deciding on the whole chapter. Let's vote! I'm asking for your attention! The second time we will vote on chapter 7 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the chapter has been adopted. We are moving to debate and decision-making on Chapter 8 Education and training and the amendment of the Committee to this chapter. Anybody want to talk about chapter 8? Because no, we're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on chapter 8 as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the chapter has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Chapter 9 - Informatics - and the amendment of the committee to this chapter. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on chapter 9 as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the chapter has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining chapters to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the remaining chapters have been adopted. I am also putting forward the next proposal for a decision in the debate - I apologize. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the national programme. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the title of the national programme has been fully adopted. I also put to the debate the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a national programme for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone wish to discuss the proposed decision? As no, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister, the Secretary of State and the representatives of the secretariat very much for their cooperation. We're moving to 8. Period of the day - Second defense of the proposal for a law on working proportions. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Between us, I welcome the Minister and ask him if he wants a word. Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u77	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Before you, the Labour Relations Act is ready for second reading. At its meeting on 10.3.1999, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held the first reading of the draft law on working relations and concluded that the proposal for a law was a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading. In the additional conclusions, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia ordered the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for the first time: in the preparation of the draft law for the second reading, to ensure compliance with the draft laws and amendments to the labour and social laws; and for the second time, to include independent entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises in the implementing rules governing the implementation of the active employment policy. In view of the views of the National Assembly that the applicant should examine and take due account of the Secretariat's comments on legislation and legal matters, we have reformulated the provisions of the draft law accordingly. With regard to the Secretariat's comment on the linkage of changing the concept of working relationship with the orientation of social security systems, we have found that there is a need for harmonisation and consistency of legal solutions from the labour and social welfare sectors. Therefore, in the context of the preparation of the proposal for this Act, amendments were needed to comply with the new solutions: the Employment and Work Act, the proposed solutions to the proposal of the Law on Parenthood and Family Benefits, the new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance and the Law on Safety and Health at Work, the Law on Health and Health Insurance and the amendments and amendments to the Law on Employment and Unemployment Insurance. The starting points that led us in the preparation of the draft law for second reading are: firstly, the provision of justice to workers; secondly, the creation of conditions for new jobs; and thirdly, the development guidelines and legislation of the European Union. Let me just list some important acquisitions of the proposal for a labour relationship law, namely. 1. The law of an individual employment contract in writing, which clearly defines the rights and obligations of the worker. 2. Prohibition of discrimination against a job seeker or a worker according to sex, race, skin colour, age, health status or disability, religious, political or other belief, union membership, national and social origin, family status, property status, sexual orientation or other circumstances. In addition, women and men must be given equal opportunities and equal treatment in employment, promotion, training, education, requalification, wages and other benefits from the employment relationship, absence from work, working conditions, working hours and termination of the employment contract. 3. The law introduces the definition of a small employer, a employer who has 10 or less employees. 4. This is a temporary limitation of fixed-term employment and a prohibition on the establishment of fixed-term employment contracts for the same worker for the same work. 5. It is the determination of the wage component, which is the sum of the basic salary, performance and allowances for specific working conditions. 6. This is a legal reimbursement of work-related costs, annual leave and retirement benefits. Before that, there was no legal provision on this subject, but this was regulated by collective agreements. Seven. It is a matter of increasing the days of annual leave from the current 18 to a minimum of 4 weeks. 8. It's about setting up a child labour ban. 9. This is a more detailed mandate for the inspector to work. Ten. Special protection is provided for certain categories of workers, namely women, workers who have not yet reached 18 years of age, disabled persons and older workers. Although I would not like to go into the details in the introduction, I will gladly answer your questions with my colleagues and explain the individual articles and amendments. Respectable. It has been a long time since the law was ready for second reading, but it has taken time for us to draw up such a proposal for a law that is appropriate for our time and our space. I think it also points to the fact that the law has been closely aligned with the social partners in almost all articles. I believe that the law is prepared to introduce the necessary changes in terms of labour market flexibility while protecting employees and taking into account the rules that we will have to comply with as a Member State when entering the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. President, Mr Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I very much welcome you, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister and co-workers. The draft law was the working body of the mother, which was discussed by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons both at the 14th and 15th regular sessions of 7.12., 10.1. and 11.1. and prepared a proposal for a plenary decision. Members and members of the Committee were provided with a whole range of materials: both the amendments of the Government and the opinion of the Secretariat, as well as the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, as well as the comments of the Chamber of Commerce, as well as the comments of the ‘studies of participation’, the comments of the Presidency of the Association of Associations for the Human Resources Activities of Slovenia and the amendments of Parliamentary colleague Roman Jakić. The draft law was introduced by Mr Minister with his fellow workers, so I would not repeat it because it was repeated before me. However, it is necessary to stop at the opinion of the Secretariat, of course. The members of the Committee took note of the broad and written opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and were also presented orally at the meeting of the Committee. The secretariat notes that, on the basis of the views adopted by the national assembly, the material submitted for the first reading of the draft law has been substantially modified and extended, since it now covers as many as 238 articles. The applicant took into account the majority of the views expressed in the first reading and adequately resolved the dilemmas raised, but according to the secretariat, the material submitted should be more clearly stated, since it is one of the most important laws adopted by the National Assembly. The substantive comment by the secretariat also referred to the revised role of the union, in particular to the fundamental right to equal treatment of workers, whether they are members or not of the union. The representative of the secretariat made comments on individual articles of the draft law and certain amendments tabled by the proposer. In the debate, a representative of the New Slovenia Group and a member of the Committee stressed that the law should be considered and adopted, as the legislation of the former Yugoslavia still applies to this area, which, of course, is not good for Slovenia. Practice also suggests that it is imperative to adopt a modern law that will allow for more flexibility. The text of individual articles is indeed somewhat vague, but this could be resolved with amendments. A similar position was taken by a representative of the Social Democratic Party, who proposed that, when considering individual amendments and articles on the basis of the secretariat's comments, the draft law should be further supplemented. Some members of the Committee even suggested that the draft law should be re-examined or that the draft law should be classified and considered at the January meeting of the National Assembly. This happened in December when we wanted to draft a law for the December session. At that time, the secretariat's opinion could also be followed by appropriate amendments. The representatives of the proposer objected to the proposal that the law should be reopened as the proposal for a labour relationship law was extremely long coordinated, while it would be difficult for the European Union to defend the position that the law was not yet adopted. The draft law was also signed in the framework of the Economic and Social Council and the amendments tabled by the proposer are the result of long and compromise negotiations and coordination. On the basis of comments from the public and the secretariat, as well as from other institutions, the members of the Committee also formed a number of their amendments in the debate and identified themselves to the amendments tabled by the Government. The review lists a number of amendments that have received support from members and members of the Committee. Then it must be said that the amendments of the government to Article 134 were not supported, which was later withdrawn by the government, and the amendment of Member Roman Jakič to Article 171 was withdrawn by notification. In particular, due to the arguments set out or found in the opinion of the secretariat, the Committee has also drawn up a number of amendments which, in other words, addressed the shortcomings, both in the basic section of the law and in the amendments of the Government. The review or report is then reasoned and stated on several pages, indicating all the number of these amendments, so that you would not even quote them now, but you can, as long as you have gone through the report, also get to know and face them. After final consideration, the Committee has yet to submit to the National Assembly a decision proposing that the National Assembly should consider the proposal of the Labour Relations Act together with the amendments of the Committee and the amendments supported by the Committee. It should be pointed out, however, that a number of amendments have been tabled to the bill today just before 1300 hours ago. It was therefore necessary to prepare a new review of the amendments in the expert services of the Committee, and also formally and legally, to incorporate these amendments into the amendments already contained in the review. Therefore, it may be possible that a new review, a revised review of the amendments, might be somewhat delayed, for which I apologize in advance on behalf of the expert staff of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] Several parliamentary groups have signed up in writing for the debate, so I will only take the orderly introduction of fellow Members and Members, so far reported to be able to prepare themselves: Mr Vizjak, Mr Drobnic, Brenčič, Štemberger, Pece. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u81	Dear Vice President! Dear Mr. Minister, Ministry of Labour! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, the transition to a new social system with clearly expressed ownership and the market economy has also greatly affected the employer-employer relationship. Unfortunately, ten years after the independence of the labour force, a comprehensive legislative reform has not yet taken place. Therefore, marriage in many places is not clear, uncoordinated, and simply does not correspond to the changed social conditions or is not written on the skin of the time we live in. During the period of transition, when most companies carried out ownership, transformation or restructuring procedures, the labour legislation in many cases was not in line with the new circumstances in which workers were subsequently found. In particular, it has not worked and still does not have an effective system of judicial protection for workers. Therefore, labour law needs as soon as possible a comprehensive reform, which, in line with the changed social situation, will constitute an appropriate framework of legal standards, within which employers and employees will contractually regulate each other's rights, obligations and responsibilities. In setting a framework of legal standards and thus drafting a labour law that limits the contractual freedom of employers and workers, we are aware of a particular paradox in the Social Democratic Party. Because a high but selective level of protection of workers' rights and security is required in a contractual relationship, we must offer and provide flexible forms of employment [[part-time work, work at home and fixed-term working relationship]] . In establishing and drafting and amending labour law or the framework of these legal standards, the most important social dialogue in which employers' and employees' representatives formulate solutions and arrangements. In the Social Democratic Party, we stand on the principle that in matters where there is no agreement and there is no agreement, we advocate solutions that are on the side or that are also advocated by the weaker party in this relationship, these are workers' representatives. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to another very important point, namely that, despite the fact that Slovenia is a legal and social state, the courts resolve disputes very slowly and do not provide workers with a fair trial at a reasonable time. In particular, there are disputes concerning the termination of the employment relationship and the rights arising from the employment relationship, in particular the right to pay and the corresponding monetary claims. Therefore, the relatively inefficient and slow functioning is also the root cause of many infringements of workers' rights, because if we know that the judicial system and judicial protection are not working, this is the argument or reason why many employers are also violating and deliberately relying on ineffective judicial protection of workers' rights. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party, we insist on amendments to the legislation that will simplify procedures and facilitate the resolution of cases in the labour and social courts and thus commit or achieve some preventive protection of workers' rights. The proposed text of the draft law on second reading with a number of amendments should be said above all: that workers' rights are guaranteed not only by the legal scope of workers' rights but also by an effective system of protection of those rights. Here I find the most important weakness and weakness in the proposed solution in this text, and I would point out that the government, particularly the Ministry of Justice, has made a significant contribution to the agreement of the social partners, says trade unions and employers, regarding the provision of agreed labour rights in the law. We have therefore prepared an amendment in the Social Democratic Party and have also managed to defend and achieve that the amendment has been taken by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, where, with increased competence of the labour inspectorates, it has provided the first direct, rapid protection of workers' rights, that the inspectorate for work as an arbitrator in obvious cases of infringements by the employer, intervenes and thus, of course, effectively ensures the protection of workers' rights. I would point out that the legal right that a worker can exercise only after five years of justification or even in a longer period of time is not a right and it is totally inappropriate to have it written anywhere. Because if someone's been in charge for a matter for five years and then in the end the dispute gets in, it doesn't mean anything. It should be noted that in the process of drafting the law for second reading, this procedure has been carried out through several governments and, of course, the text that is before us with the amendments has been summarized to the extent possible, or the text that is also written by the Bajuk government under Minister Miho Brejc, who conducted the social dialogue and, of course, it has also been successfully completed by current Minister Dimovski. Therefore, we know that these solutions, which we have before us, are also solutions that have actually taken place over a long period of time and are agreed upon and, therefore, to the extent of the rights agreed with social dialogue, we will not intervene, we do not intend to intervene with the amendments, but of course we intend to intervene in the effective defence of these rights against employers. This means ensuring that the system and preventive system are as efficient as possible, that there is no breach of legislation or of course of collective agreements. This, and unfortunately we see only in the possibility of increased powers of inspection for work and of course also the scheduled solutions to arbitration, which, of course, is left to some possibility here and there is no commitment. On the basis of the final social dialogue between the partners, it was clear from the unions and from employers that they would condemn anyone who intervened in this social dialogue most severely, and the Ministry of Justice did intervene for very subtle reasons in this social dialogue and deleted Article 222 third paragraph of the agreed solutions. We believe that the Ministry of Justice would devote significantly more time to simplifying procedures before the labour and social courts or to finding solutions to a worker or to a suitable marriage solution before and within a reasonable time that this solution could mean anything to him. Let me illustrate just one case of what it means to a court judge if he loses his job today, of course he has to look for it because of the existing problems and find it within six months, and he gets the judgment after three years, which he is admitted to have lost his job for unjustified reasons. This is nothing, this is not a protection of the worker's right, and as long as we have such judicial protection and such a system of protection of rights, violations will occur regularly and frequently, as the Ombudsman points out in his annual reports. We have also proposed other amendments to this law, notably amendments relating to the competitive clause, including amendments relating to monetary compensation in the event of unused annual leave; amendments concerning the use of annual leave for those who, of course, could not make use of annual leave during the current year. However, we have also proposed an essential point, namely an additional decision - this already on the Labour Committee and we will also repeat it in this plenary - this is that the Ministry of Labour will prepare a specific article of the law, where concepts and sentences or words in the law itself will be defined. Because we need to be aware, this will be the law, which is one of the most applied laws in Slovenia, read by many, including workers, employers, workers' representatives, employers' representatives. And we believe that any doubt must be minimised or not to be, and that is why the concepts must be clear. The debate mentioned a number of cases, where concepts are not clear. This is not the last thing the secretariat has pointed out. We therefore feel that this chapter, or it, should be given even more attention and even more room in the law itself. In short, we do not agree in the Social Democratic Party with certain solutions to social dialogue, but we do recognise them. We recognize them as the result of a long, long-standing social dialogue and therefore we have not intervened in these agreements with our amendments, but of course, once again, I emphasise, we have interfered in an effective system or in a more effective system of protection of the rights agreed upon, in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u83	I'd like to welcome the representatives of the government, thank you very much, colleague and colleague. Allow me to present the opinion of New Slovenia on the second reading of the Labour Relations Act. The Labour Relations Act is, in fact, a small labour constitution, which has been adopted for a very long time. In New Slovenia we support the adoption of the Labour Relations Act because the sessions have changed considerably since the adoption of the applicable laws. Political, economic and social conditions have changed. Nor is it worthy of us to have an old Yugoslav law or two laws which provide for this important part of the regulation of employment, work and economy. Employers initially set two objectives: to make working relationships flexible and, secondly, to reduce operating costs. On the other hand, as we could have followed the unions, they did not object to working relationships being flexible, as this also creates a flexible workforce and ensures equal employment opportunities. Of course, workers were not in favour of reducing rights, the level of rights. We respect what the social partners have agreed on. However, we would like to introduce you to New Slovenia, which is why we do not agree on this coordination. Modern working relations and the economy are changing. At times, antagonistic relationships between workers and employers tend to turn into cooperative; modern industrial democracy talks about this. What's the reason? The reason is that more and more workers have a high level of education, an increasing part of the economy is the service sector, more and more are independent jobs, and that is why this arrangement, negotiation in terms of cooperation, in particular in the areas of work, organisation of work and internal affairs in the company is changing. And we are now where the main focus is on New Slovenia: instead of the authentic interests of workers, too much emphasis has been placed on trade unions, emphasis on trade unions and certain powers that they will not be able to represent and exercise in the interests of workers. They've put too much burden on themselves. And if we also take into account the fact that our courts are acting too slowly, that the question of what will happen to arbitration procedures, because these procedures will be laid down in collective agreements, the fate of workers does not appear to be in a good light. Therefore, it is clear from this law that it is not adequately guaranteed the broadest interest of workers against the partial interests of trade unions. In the workplaces, in companies, they can be legitimately represented primarily by the labour-loved representatives. We should make this possible in the law. To enable, once again, to say that where there is no representative union, this is how it is done. All experts involved in these matters stressed this. And in the previous reading, the text was written this way. This does not exclude the powers of trade unions, but complements them. Trade unions should be entrusted with the role of effective protection of the rights and interests of employees and should not be given jurisdiction. Trade unions, therefore, as I have pointed out once before, will probably not be part of the role assigned to them in this way, then of course there will be a violation of rights. We have observations on the issue of unilateral general acts, which is not appropriate under the context of bond law, and it is not permissible for the law to lay down general legal standards for regulating bilaterally binding legal relations. Among other comments, the law, this second reading, provides for the end of the possibility of using an annual leave in the following year for persons who do not yet have a six-month job. This is mainly for those mothers who took maternity leave this year before the end of June and went on leave, maternity leave, and, of course, they cannot benefit from this leave. It can also happen to workers who have been injured in the workplace and are not able to work, nor will they have to take leave in the coming year. This creates, in fact, inequality and injustice between individual categories. If a reduction of rights is already being established, then, if the social partners have already taken this into account, they should take into account that it is the same for everything, that the provisions are symmetrical, but not that they are determined - which are, in fact, relative to the disease or disease in the same relationship and that leave is different. That's inappropriate. Disciplinary sanctions are overly defined. Taking into account the circumstances previously mentioned, the issue of arbitration, then the limited possibility of labour inspectors and the slowness of court resolution, this disciplinary sanction will be very much on the arbitration function or the role of the employer. He will be able to do so in his own way and it will be difficult here to ensure the rights of workers, especially when it comes to an eccentric breach of the procedure itself. That is why, by the way, I say that we are committed to a greater role of labour inspectors so that, in the very process, these things can be found to have an impact on the progress of this. This does not mean prejudging or assuming the role of the court, as the court will still decide in the final sequence, but this will help in the work of the courts. Contractual work falls out of this law. I don't know what this is all about now. There is a reference to a traineeship without payment. In New Slovenia we say that there is no point in regulating work that is free of charge. Volunteer internship. In such cases, where traineeships are necessary for the purpose of acquiring skills, there is no interest among employers, a subsidy and a lower tariff for work may be granted and the same objective may be achieved, while at least a proportionate part of the payment for a given job is provided. But if volunteering is not counted at work, then it is not the nature of the working relationship. Here again, I would like to stress the transfer of leave to next year. When we passed the law on marriage, on family benefits, we mentioned that, in cooperation with or in connection with this law, there would actually be a de facto reduced parental leave. That is why I am warning all my colleagues and colleagues that we support the amendment, which, as I have seen, has already been tabled by the government. And that's what we warned her about when she was being treated on her mother's working body. We therefore support the adoption of the law with a view to improving the regulation of the relationship between workers and employers, the authentic representation of workers and the clarity of the law. In order to achieve this, we have tabled the necessary amendments. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we were pleased to accept that the proposal for a new law on labour relations, and this proposal for a second reading finally after a long break, was submitted to the National Assembly after the first hearing. We consider that the proposal as such, with its content and concept, has been substantially modified in the light of the proposal contained in the first reading, including in this consideration the views adopted and the referrals of proposers for the preparation of the draft law for the second reading. A few of us believe that in some segments there is a kind of change that is worse than better, the expectation that this law brings to the labour market and, above all, to workers. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are examining an agreement or compromise between the social partners, who, in other words, possessed their product for the consideration and adoption of the National Assembly. However, it is not, and should not be, a national assembly or Members when considering and adopting this proposal for a second reading merely a statistician, since, after all, we will be responsible for the negative effects of this law in its practical implementation. As has been confirmed in the debates so far, the expectations of key social partners are that we should not accompany this law in the national assembly. Many Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group believe that the proposal for a law does not follow too much the reality of the new economic and economic order and also of the social order in the country of Slovenia and that it is too strong to enter into the forefront of the law to institutionalise the union - or, rather, their headquarters - and to over-inclusion only those powers into the law. This law, or the proposal of this law, should follow to the greatest extent possible the establishment of genuine and direct relations or relations between the employer and the worker, because they are necessary to each other and are not just material or subject to each other. Whether directly or also in the title of administrations or management in organisations and labour representations, on the other hand, with a significant involvement in the world of workers and the worker’s trustee in this same organisation. The full exclusion of the workers' councils and the worker's confidant from the bill, even in cases where the union's establishment in a particular organisation is very weak or is not at all, is not, in our firm belief, a good solution, if we are looking for confirmation of our position in the current practice or we are confidently expecting it to be applied as soon as this law becomes applicable, if, of course, this concept is followed in its final form. The negative effects will be felt first and foremost by workers directly. We are firmly convinced of this by some who have survived in industry for many years. Such a decision by the applicant or a better-spoken election by the dominant unions and representatives of employers, which are not in practice a direct party to the conclusion of a contract of employment, which is the basic document of this law and the most direct and genuine agreement between the employer and the worker on their relationship with each other, is also seen in the light of Article 75 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and by the Constitution of the guaranteed right to equal treatment of workers - whether or not they are members of the trade union and that they can influence matters directly relating to them - disputed. That is also what the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs pointed out with arguments in its opinion. However, it would be wrong and wrong to judge that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we deny the unions the mission they have and must continue to carry out in accordance with the rules of union work and integration in favour of the protection and protection of the interests of workers and, of course, in the first place of the members of the union, taking into account the optional way in which they operate. It cannot and should not be a union or a union under this law a perfect monopoly in the representation of workers, whether they are members or not. We are confident that the near future will, on the basis of the developments in the labour market, serve with the urgent need to involve the holy workers and the labour commissioner directly in negotiating each other on the basis of working relationships in certain circumstances and needs, especially if we also consider the low moral and responsible level of some employers or their administration. It is not enough that employers' representatives claim that the holy workers and their role are already defined in the Labour Co-ordination Act. However, it is true that, not to trade unions, in particular to some who act all too imaginatively and more in favour of their leadership structure than directly for the benefit of the worker, and not to employers who act only on a frontal and not directly genuine, partnerly, it is not possible for anyone to become more directly involved in this arrangement and thereby to some extent reduce or jeopardize their monopoly. At this point, unfortunately, and with many successful countries of the European Union, comparable solutions in our negotiation are not yet acceptable, in which we Members of the Slovenian People's Party, in considering the draft law on the home labour body, have convinced ourselves, and it would not make sense, without hope, to work with the amendments, the concept, as now follows, to amend or at least in some articles to return the content of the bill to the content that the law submitted in the first reading, has also ceased and was conceptually acceptable. If I mention, above all, paragraphs 83, 84, 148 and 150. However, I would like to highlight or mention some of the key issues or solutions that the law brings. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the solutions presented in the law or in the Government's amendments relate to cancellations, irrespective of the employer's or employee's address, the scope and level of discharges, the work-time allowance, the solutions that are pre-sealed: and this also concerns a severe increase in the recognition of wrongful discharges. Practically for a month or so of working age differences, someone will be able to get almost half a smaller retirement than one who has a good month’s working life over. We are also convinced that such a strong approach to discharges will result in the search for every possible cause, the dismissal of workers or the cessation of working relationships for business reasons, and the payment of discharges. Also, maintaining the employer’s obligation to provide remuneration due to the worker’s absence from work due to illness is overburdening for the employer for a period of 30 days. In doing so, we would like to point out that we do not believe that this should be transferred to a health insurance company other than a health insurance company, by providing it with certainly a stable and new source for this purpose. These are elements that reduce, in addition to some other measures, the competitiveness of our employers and are unstimulating for new employment and will ultimately be to the detriment of the worker, and perhaps at first glance, from the standpoint of the law, this seems unreasonable, but this will happen. Employment of job seekers with more or more years of working time will be very low or unapproachable for the employer. The bill also contains some very good and European comparable solutions, and there is also a number of compromise solutions for the social partners that we can claim to be well received as soon as possible. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will also support the proposal for a law with most of the amendments tabled, and we strongly believe that the valuable judgment of Members or the global treatment of this law should be more genuine, regardless of the fact that the law with the social partners is more genuine. On the one hand, it is also good that the draft law, due to many open articles, will also be further supplemented in the third reading, or some solutions can also be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the opinion of the Youth Slovenia Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. If we shared the conviction within the Young Slovenia Party a month ago that the Second reading Labour Relations Act will be a law that, due to its coordination with partners in social dialogue, should serve as a model example of good work, we are not so sure about this today, especially after the government amendments and the opinion of the secretariat. Let me just repeat some Secretariat warnings. The opinion of the secretariat is, of course, extensive, because the law itself is very extensive, it has 238 articles proposed by a large number of amendments, for which it is stated that they are mutually coordinated. In particular, the secretariat points out that this is a very applicable law, perhaps most of all that we adopt in the National Assembly, and that is why this law will be the most viewed. Each employer and employee will look at all the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and will examine them in detail. In the opinion of the secretariat, therefore, amendments should be more clearly written or duly reasoned. The Secretariat itself could not explain what an individual provision meant. The only explanation in most of the amendments is that they are coordinated among the social partners, which, of course, is not enough to understand. In addition, the Secretariat also warns us of cases where the issue of mandatory interpretation of the law arises because it raises questions as to what the drafter and the legislator, the National Assembly, thought when adopting certain standards. It is not surprising, therefore, that we have weighed on the committee the meaning of the decision, either to wait for a second reading or to continue and, inter alia, to correct inconsistencies and uncertainties. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that the right decision has been taken and that the law should continue to be examined. With the articles, we will have plenty of time for individual provisions, but I would like to mention only a few things immediately. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that it is necessary to fully regulate the area of individual labour relations by law, since it has already stipulated the constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which set the deadline of 31.12.1993 for the harmonisation of regulations which do not comply with the Slovenian Constitution, which expressly stipulates that the State provides for the legal protection of employment and work. The law, in addition to stating the temporary and occasional parts of students and students, lacks a systematically regulated institute for the implementation of these works, in particular due to certain specificities which are characteristic only of this type of work. That is why in the Young Slovenia Party we advocate that this area is also regulated by law. In our SMS, we estimate that the bill mainly reduces the standards of operation of workers' rights in the following cases. In SMS, we object to the regulation of a law that eliminates two-step decisions on complaints from working relationships and provides only for a one-stage decision of the employer, because it does not even define the body or functions of the person who decides on it. In this way, the position of the employee who is deprived of any possibility of appeal by a second-degree body remains substantially impaired and is left with only the search for his or her right at work inspection or in a court of law. In contrast to the current law, the area of disciplinary responsibility of workers is regulated in a way that concentrates decision-making on the termination of the employment relationship only to employers and a representative union and allows employers to forgive the worker for a minor breach of the labour obligation. The law also favours managers who are excluded from the general system, which applies to other employees and thus further favours their position. Moreover, the law does not define managers and other persons with special powers, which we believe is absolutely necessary. We do not agree that the law would exclusively institutionalise trade unions as the only representatives of the interests of workers, as there are a large number of companies in the country that do not have or are few members. We therefore believe that the law in the interest of representing the rights of workers should provide for representatives of their interests in these companies as well. For employers, probably no law that protects workers and their rights is good enough. Each such proposal is usually referred to as the lower limit of acceptable and there is no exception to this proposal. In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that this is not the case. The proposal allows the employer entrepreneurship freedom and enables economic progress. According to SMS, reserves in the economy are not hidden in smaller part-rights and pay mainly in better management and higher added value. And that's what employers do. We will support the law in the second reading and expect the government to take our comments into account when drafting the Third Treatment Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you. Saša Peče will be contacted on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. They say that Slovenia made a different choice ten years ago. Some argue that she has opted for the path leading to the principle of capital. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we oppose this and we say that both the interests of capital and the social aspect, which we can also show as some kind of social aspect, must be harmonised among ourselves. This time, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we congratulate the material manufacturer for his "skiing" between the two interests for harmonising to such an extent that both interests are in this law. Looking from one side or the other, everyone will find some mistakes because these two interests are each in their own field. However, in the Slovenian National Party, we give priority primarily to the social aspect, the sense of human beings and to the legal protection of those who are, as a rule, in this country, unfortunately all or most of its rights have been violated. What we are talking about today is one of the more important laws, in general the existence of our young country, not only the representatives of the parliamentary groups, whose representatives have not strongly opposed the proposed law, but also the fact that we are only in the second reading and that the law has already put something through. The first reading began in 1999. So, three years ago. However, despite the fact that material makers have been on the side of, say, right-wing political options, like left-wing political options, we still see some shortcomings in the law in the Slovenian National Party. Allow us to present them at this time, for them we expect answers to our questions to be found in the debate, in particular in the form of answers from representatives of the ministry or representatives of the proposed material. First of all, the explanation concerning VI. Chapters of the proposed law, where there is a speech on the termination of the employment contract, both on the one hand by the employer and on the other hand by the employee, in particular within the term 'personal reason'. After the talks that we had held in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, there were quite a few views that seemed meaningful to us, in particular that the word "personal" should be replaced with "personal" reasons. Perhaps so much to consider that we do not place too much emphasis on the capital side. However, it is still a matter that has been mostly referred to by gentlemen before me – an exclusive role of the union. Of course, according to some story, the union - I emphasise that according to some story it should grant workers' rights, fight for their interests. But unfortunately in a lot of society today, I'm talking about companies, there is no union. The question is, what is his role in certain economic organisations, I do not speak for everyone. Therefore, the exclusive role of the union is unacceptable in the Slovenian National Party. It would make sense, on the one hand, to the negotiators, on the other hand, the role of those who have the right in that country to say anything to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to be heard by this national assembly or by any other institution and third party, including the employer, to those employees who are not for this reason or for any reason in any of these unions called the union. We also need to enable them, not only to work, those who are lucky today in Slovenia, but also to speak publicly about their work. Here it appears in connection with this question and in the Slovenian national party we have already answered this question. However, I think it would make sense for the Ministry to answer that question. Is the union the only guardian of labour rights? This should be the basis of the law. This is a major issue in that social aspect that I said you drove quite well. And if you allow it, we believe that memberships, that they should be in union movements, should not be the substance of this law. It would also make sense for us to think about it. Some say or like all parliamentary groups, we have had many conversations with such or other institutions, where the individual interests of these institutions, where it was intended to enter into the marriage through the first or the last door, through one form or another of the amendment to introduce a certain interest. However, on purpose, that is why we have not tabled any amendments in the Slovenian national party, but we propose that the applicant for the material and this national assembly at this time or at the time of the discussion amend this Article 238. This is the last article of this law. Last but not least. This is an implementing article which says that this law will apply on 1 January 2003. It is our belief that the deadline should be extended. This National Assembly has already met with a number of laws, especially those that have a lot of consequences in substance and have given them the so-called deadline of a very long character. If we meet at a second reading today, ask yourself when we will come to the third reading. It can happen that this law, which is most important in this area, in the field of the Minister present, will be adopted in the autumn of the third reading. And the implementation, in other words, will take effect almost immediately. But it is true that this law is written for humans. Let us therefore give them the opportunity to get acquainted with this law. To make simulations and to see the consequences of this law. So much for the opening speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Before us is the law, which is one of the most important and most commonly used in everyday life of the vast majority of citizens and citizens, as it deals with all issues relating to employment relations, employment, wages, working conditions, workers' protection and so on. On the other hand, it has a significant impact on the economy, its competitiveness, economic development and growth and the conditions under which it will operate. The law ahead of us is the result of long-lasting and years-long coordination. In this context, the need to adopt new legislation in the field of labour relations needs to be stressed, as it is essential to increase the liberalisation of the Slovenian labour market and to adapt this area to the directives and guidelines of the European Union. While it must be acknowledged that, in the coordination phase between the social partners, it has remained, in our view, somehow halfway and largely follows the aspirations of those solutions that primarily restrict employers. It is true that it is extremely difficult to follow on the one hand the objective of economic efficiency as well as on the other hand social justice and a high level of worker safety and to protect the worker as a weaker article. Therefore, in practice, it will probably be very soon, according to our assessment just in a few years, to show that it will need to be changed and complemented, and we probably need time for more radical interventions. Last but not least, the practice will show that excessive rights, benefits and protection can mean a double sword, as employers will act rationally and restrictively, and such solutions will in the long run prove to be poor and unfulfilled. However, in our view, the proposal is still an acceptable compromise, which we will support in the light of the agreement of the social partners. We note, however, that the National Assembly, as the highest legislative body, has found itself in an unusual situation when it merely confirms and legitimises what the social partners have agreed on, and there is hardly any possibility of modifying and recasting the proposal that we have been given to deal with. We are kind of in a situation where, in fact, we should not propose better proposals, because this - at least mediaically - would violate the agreement and as a policy, we would be involved in this area. In doing so, we would like to stress that the social partners, namely the union on the one hand and the employers' representatives, have, in our assessment, accepted a great deal of responsibility for the consequences of the implementation of this law and have in some way removed us, Members and Members of Parliament, from our responsibilities. While the law brings a lot of good and positive results, especially if we want to highlight the advantages it brings in the field of labour costs, the slightly greater flexibility of the labour market, the reduction of cancellation periods, the reduction of discharges, the possibility of forgiving undisciplined and poor workers, and the identification and definition of effective working time that is becoming comparable to the European Union. On the other hand, social security is maintained and increased, including categories such as regress, work-related reimbursements, nutrition, transport, payment day indication, lunch break during working hours, past work allowance and so on. In fact, the law has been very strong in protecting already employed workers, and before that, in our opinion, it has seriously neglected the young population and those looking for employment, as it will hinder and reduce the opportunities for new employment and job creation by being overly restrictive. In doing so, our assessment suggests that there is a positive potential and flexibility for employment at home and employment for shorter working hours, while in particular limiting employment for a certain period of time is poor, as this option could open up a flexible position for employers in employment. The restrictive employment policy will have negative effects on, we believe, very problematic areas of productivity growth, job growth and employment, and the continuation of work in black. At the time of consideration of the law, one of the most frequently problematic areas was the issue of employee representation, or the question of who would have the power to represent workers' interests and to communicate with employers. This significantly strengthens the role of trade unions and at the same time deletes and restricts other workers' representatives. In doing so, in accordance with the Secretariat's warnings on legislation, it is necessary to ensure that the right of workers who must not be discriminated against or put in a worse position if they are not members of trade unions is not violated by the Constitution. In our parliamentary group, however, we have decided, despite many concerns, to support the proposed solution to the union's highlighted role, which is most radically reflected in the mandatory accounting of membership by employers. Ignorance of the role and position of the workers' councils may, in fact, be the termination of labour co-ordination. It is true, however, that in our decision we followed, in particular, the positions of employers' representatives, who pointed out overriding and overcrowding in the event that we additionally introduce the powers of workers' councils into the law and thus make additional demands on employers, which would be totally bad for the economy. The government also opposed such a solution, as it would mean dismantling the concept of law and returning to the start of negotiations. The LDS Group will support the law, as compared to the old legislation it represents progress and brings a lot of positive results. At the same time, we stress that, with many solutions, especially in terms of greater economic efficiency, the opening up of new jobs, the flexibility of the labour force and the reduction of labour costs in the light of faster economic development, we are not fully satisfied.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, your colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a second reading, which is before us, of the Labour Relations Act, we believe in the parliamentary group that it is one of the very important laws that it would have been good before a certain time. But we also now believe that we should get to the third reading as soon as possible, because this law will clarify a lot of things, it will put a lot on the real ground of today's market economy when certain situations change substantially, both workers and employers. Those of us who have already worked in the previous socialist system were mainly employees, and on the other hand many in the position of employers if we were in one or another position. After the liberation, when we moved into the free market economy, we also gained experience, as many of us were also employers as entrepreneurs and faced certain problems. The role of trade unions is such or different, and one who looks at and educates and reads both foreign and foreign literature, and one who has the opportunity to create and create a picture with certain foreign officials, both trade unions and employers, that we can paint into our situation. In principle, compromise is always sought. The compromise between those two or three extremes that appear, because no extreme has in practice proved to be good, except for the dictatorship that we have experienced. In this case, in fact, in the Group of Members, we have considered how to take a position on this second reading. On the one hand, we welcome the compromise, so to speak, the agreement of the representatives of employers and employees - I may have to tell my colleagues to some extent that we have a slightly different opinion on trade unions, because we do not know how anyone who is willing to organise himself in one way or another can now leave the political orientation of individual unions, but they are united in order to serve and protect the rights of employees. That's what they say, they have a common starting point, they have a common goal. On the other hand, there is a confrontation with employers' interests and the government is involved as a third partner. The role of the government, as we see in our parliamentary group, is as follows: seeking first a compromise between the two partners, for a simple reason, because it wants social peace, and only social peace ensures the progress of the economy, ensures the progress of living standards and all opportunities to improve infrastructure and satisfy the interests of citizens. This role is not simple. Even less is the simple role of the National Assembly, of us Members, when we meet in our parliamentary offices with such and different proposals, when citizens come to us, one as employees, with their problems, a confrontation in labour disputes that drag and pull, because courts sometimes "intentionally", I will point out under quotations, deliberately certain things delay if someone, forgive this issue, one such or another connection or, as we say, a relationship. On the other hand, employers want their capital, their main role, from which they say, "if I did not allow it with my capital, you, dear employees, will not or would not have a job". The key issue that we are putting forward is this: we need to face technological progress with the following fact, on the one hand the capital that enables employment, the work, on the other hand the interest of employees, given that human rights are increasingly respected and certain other rights and, of course, duties are derived from these human rights. On the other hand, there is a need for a country of these two, employers and employees, a certain income within the framework of taxes, contributions and the rest, and here there is a need to find a synthesis, a compromise of these three interests, in order for each of them to achieve to the extent possible what they want or think they belong to them in such an advanced social society. If we turn around or look at the amendments. In our parliamentary group, we have not tabled any amendments, we respect this social agreement and we believe that, with a certain second theory or other amendments, because we would have broken the achieved relationship, we would have re-arranged, re-coordinated, because we, from our experience, when we had a worker for 48 hours, not to talk about cheers when no one asked you if you had to work 12 hours a day, 12 hours a night, on the other hand, only 14 days a vacation, we worked all Saturdays. Today, however, this progress, as far as rest is concerned, has progressed so much in terms of the health that we must protect and that is why we are putting ourselves in the position of our parliamentary group to support this law. We think it would be useful and good for us to get to the third reading as soon as possible, because we will be able to balance the last finesse with satisfaction, in the form of compromise, one and the other. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Joint Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Danica Simsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Under-Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After almost five years of investing in the National Assembly, we will today only consider in the second reading, according to the assessment of the Group of Members of the Joint List of Social Democrats for many citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, an extremely important law which we often call a labour constitution. It is a law that, after many years of coordination, aims to simplify the regulation of relations between employees and employers. It is almost insurmountable that after ten years of living in Slovenia alone we still have a bunch of old laws governing working relations, and besides them the standards governing employees' rights also govern a number of collective agreements. Therefore, it is a real time to hurry with the adoption of this law, by which we will adapt our legislation to the provisions and regulations of the European Union and, above all, to regulate legislation comprehensively in a way that will make the weaker party in a contractual relationship, and of course, I mean workers and workers more transparent and even more friendly. For the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, it is of paramount importance that the social partners, together with government representatives, are employers and employees after long-term coordination, have managed to reach agreement on the content of this Act, which many felt almost impossible a year ago. Therefore, it must be made clear that a great deal of work has been done. The social agreement of all groups is certainly the best passenger in the law under consideration and also ensures that the law will be taken into account in real life. The purpose of the law is certainly, in the first place, to protect employees as weaker contracting parties in the relationship between work and capital and this task, according to our assessment, the law also follows. Such content is reflected in a number of provisions of the proposed law and government amendments, through which the content of the social agreement is incorporated into the law. Of course, it is also possible to listen to many who have different concerns about the law, both to those who claim that it is necessary to increase some of the rights of employees, to define more clearly the role of labour representations, especially in recent times the role of labour councils, to increase sanctions for infringements of the law and the like, as well as to those who claim, on the other hand, that the content of the law is primarily a great victory for employers and that we need to ensure greater flexibility in the labour market by reducing the rights of employees, flexible dismissal of workers and greater rights of employers in the free movement of workers and employment for a certain period of time. And it is these different assessments of the law that, at the high expectations of all stakeholders, ensure that the law is a good compromise and a quality agreement in which all stakeholders have yet to fulfil their expectations so that they can agree to such an agreement. This is also a condition for the normal application of this law in practice, as life has shown us that, despite some extremely protective standards for employee practices, many times plays a very cruel game with them and in fact denies them these rights, which are difficult to reach. This is why we believe that it is very important that we, too, follow the will of the social partners on the content that they have agreed on, even though we are not very enthusiastic about all solutions, the truth of love, even in our Group of Members. However, it is very important that the Labour Relations Act becomes a fundamental law governing working relations for all employees in the Republic of Slovenia and that legislation and collective agreements remain only an upgrade. This will enable us to provide more effective legal protection for all parties in working relationships. It is also important that the bill summarises the vast majority of the rights that employees have already been able to acquire in collective agreements. This undoubtedly raises the level of legal protection of employees, while ensuring adequate legal protection for all groups of employees, not just those who are fortunate to be employed by successful employers or to be members of successful trade unions. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we particularly welcome the solutions to the law relating to the prohibition of any discrimination and which also have clearly defined sanctions. In doing so, we mean both Article 6 and Article 45 of the Law. In the first case, it is a prohibition of both direct and direct discrimination against earnings, race, skin colour, age, health status or disability, religious, political or other opinion, union membership, national or social origin, family status, property status, sexual orientation or other personal circumstances. In the second instance, in Article 45, it is a matter of safeguarding the dignity of the worker at work, which provides that the employer must ensure a working environment so that no one is exposed to unwanted sexual behaviour or to another sex-based behaviour that violates the dignity of men and women. It is therefore a prohibition of sexual harassment. The provisions relating to the possibility of termination of an employment contract for different reasons and the provisions governing the special protection of certain categories of employees are also an important novelty in the law. A major gain is also the regulation of the minimum rights guaranteed by the law relating to working time, pay for work, rest, rest, night work, regular leave and other forms of absence from work. Progress, in our view, is also a legal protection regime that will be possible in a transitional or prior or arbitral procedure: regulation of the position of the union, exceptions to small employers, special protection of the elderly, disabled persons, labour representatives and others. In the Joint List Group, we are confident that the adoption of this law will contribute to a better position of employees and, on the other hand, to increasing the flexibility of the labour market and thus to increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. We will support all the solutions coordinated by the social partners and are proposed in the amendments of the government and those amendments of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, which do not affect or alter the arrangements of the social partners and do not interfere with the basic structure of the law itself. We will also support the two amendments tabled by four parties. In the Joint List Group, we also expect that the law will be submitted for third reading soon after the second reading and that it will be adopted as soon as possible, allowing the adoption of some other laws that will further regulate the situation of employees and social partners, hopefully even this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 34 present. We have not carried out the first vote in force. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are in the vicinity, please join us. We have before us a debate and a decision on the amendments. Secondly, we vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. This is the second time we have not voted on a procedural decision in force. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I do not think it is appropriate for the services of the National Assembly to correct the review of the amendments and have worked so hard that they have provided us with the first 16 sheets of 80 sheets so that we can continue our work uninterruptedly. Therefore, I hope that after a ten-minute break, we will be able to carry out the difficult work ahead of us. I'm adjourning the session in ten minutes. We continue at 4:35 p.m. when we vote on the proposal for a decision for the third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u97	Please come to the Chamber, because this is the third time we will vote on the proposal for a decision. We vote on the proposal for a decision to discuss and vote together, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on amendments and articles, on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let us vote on the proposal for a decision for the third time. Let us vote The presence of 55 Members and Members. 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of the part of the review of the amendments that the services have assured us that we can work smoothly, which will be delivered to us further when the remaining parts of the amendment review will be copied. This is a new review with the date 24.1.2002 and is to page 15. I shall put Article 1 and the two amendments to this Article into discussion and decision. Under order number 1, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group is an amendment and under 2 is an amendment of the Government, supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to explain the first amendment. The proposal is that this law governs the rights of obligations and responsibilities between the worker and the employer. If the text remained the same as in the text, we would have the possibility of having other forms of working relations in addition to the working relationship concluded with the employment contract. Legal matter must be clear as to what it refers to. This proposal regulates the provision or area more precisely.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u100	We oppose this amendment. We think the text, as we suggested, is clear enough. It is important to say that working relationships are concluded with the employment contract and that is what we wanted to say in the introduction. Finally, this article, which was the same at first reading, had no comments on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 13 to 39. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 51 votes to 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 4 and the Government's amendment to this article, which is supported by the mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u102	I just think the sentence is completely superfluous. See: "In the working relationship, each of the parties is obliged to exercise the agreed rights and obligations laid down therein." I don't know if they'll make a deal. It's clean. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I don't know what that's for. [[...]] Besides, it could be in there, but if you've got something figured out, it's likely they'll stick together.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u104	I would just like to say that we are opposed to this amendment. This is a consensus on the definition of a small employer, also based on the actual situation in the Republic of Slovenia. In Slovenia, 80% of employers employ below 10 employees, and on average, we have 155 000 registered employers with 750 000, approximately employees, which means that on average we have 5 to 6 employees. Therefore, it seems appropriate for us to identify a small employer, one who employs less than 10 workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 12, against 37. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 5 as a whole. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 7 and on the three amendments to this Article. Under one is the amendment of the committee, which is not supported by the Government, under order number two, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, with a note: if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point three, of which the Government is proposing, is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Members and Members of Parliament. I would like to express my position, which has also been essentially the subject of the discussion in the introductory speeches of the groups of Members. Rather, it is the relationship between trade unions or representative unions and holy workers. I would like to say that there has been a very broad discussion on this, both at the professional level and also interesting. Finally, the solutions in this article and in some others, where the role of trade unions or representative unions is highlighted or defined. Thus, in essence, the solutions that we have proposed as proponents of this law are harmonised both at a professional level and at an interest level. But there was, as I said, a lot of talk about it, because there might be such or otherwise interpretations. I would like to say that the proposal of this law actually retains and even strengthens the role of trade unions as some of the general representatives or representatives of the organisation of workers. I would say that these provisions are, in particular, in line with certain international provisions, of which I would mention something. One is the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, then the International Labour Organisation Convention, number 98, as well as the European Social Charter, talks about what has also been ratified in Slovenia in 1999. I would say that the role of representative unions is also defined in some other laws that define the role and representation of trade unions in some civil society organisations. Here we could mention the employment agency, the world of RTV, various professional councils and so on. As the next element of this relationship between the councils of workers and trade unions, it is certainly necessary to mention that the law on co-management or participation of workers in management is one that accurately defines the role of the labour councils, and in this sense the holy workers have no competence in deciding on the rights, obligations and responsibilities of workers in working relationships. It is important to define this here, especially because, in coordination and also in the debate on the Committee, the Home Committee, it was a constant question whether trade unions could ensure the protection of workers' rights, I would say, in this general context. I would say that trade unions can ensure the protection of workers' rights for a number of reasons. First time. Councils of workers are limited to companies under this Act on participation or co-management of workers in business. In the event that a solution is taken to ensure that the holy workers concerned under the Workers' Labour Relations Act are limited only to the sphere of companies, but not to a whole range of other institutions, institutions and so on, where adequate protection of rights should also be ensured. Next, it has to be said that by introducing so-called labour representations or labour councils or some other substitutes, it would involve mixing some relations and, of course, creating some particular dualism, which even in the view of employers, was unacceptable and therefore did not agree to such a solution in coordination, because this would increase to express itself through the economic, some transaction costs of democracy. And in this sense, I think that the solution that we have proposed in the end is even more optimal in this respect, both in terms of worker protection and in terms of employers. The next thing you have to say is that, despite some of the discussions that have already taken place today and also on the Committee on this relationship, we think once again that these reasons, which I have mentioned very briefly and very briefly, have been very much talked about, have led to some of the solutions that we have proposed in the law. The Government therefore considers that it does not support the amendment to Article 7 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. First Mr. Petty Officer, then Mr. Brace. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Minister mentioned the comment, so the unions will be able to represent - they can - if it is their will. What if they don't have that will? Or if they don't have time? Will they still be able to represent? This proposal, also taken by the Committee, is aimed at subsidiarity. So if the union doesn't do it, then we have the chance that the workers - well, then they have the opportunity to represent the workers. In this regard, the value of this comment and such a concept is, in fact, valuable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The general trend in the world is participatory management, so employers are aware of the fact that they must somehow change their relationship to employees and make even better use of their capabilities. All the available research suggests that those who are most successful have made good use of this possibility of cooperation, of course within reasonable limits, so that no one will report back to me on any kind of self-government socialism or anything like that. It is simply that managers know that people are rich and that this wealth needs to be properly exploited, used for common goals, and, of course, because they do this, they are successful and, on the other hand, the role of trade unions is decreasing. Slovenia is one of the countries where the degree of unionisation is among the highest in Europe, and it is also logical that both the union and the employers came together when it comes to participatory management, because it is not one of them, and it is not in the interest of the workers to play any role in managing these things. That is why I am also aware of this through the negotiations I had in 2000 with trade unions and employers, that there will be a lot of opposition. That is why I think that what the Committee initially supported, if I remember correctly, and later changed my view that this is the question, if I really call it the shortest participative management, an important issue that opens up the possibility for employees to play a role, while at the same time giving employers the opportunity to make real contact with employees. With us, this gap between employees and leadership is large, often incomprehensible, so perhaps with such provisions we would have been able to civilise a management that has actually lived in some other time and actually behaves irrationally. Of course, it means accepting this amendment so that, according to the principle of cohesion, many things will change in this law. That's why I would suggest we support this amendment. But if it does not go through, but if it is not supported, I would at least suggest to the government to re-examine these comments that we have made in the past and that we are giving them today, and that, however, I hope that you understand me correctly, a notorious fact that, let's say, when two unions are in some association, no one will draw for people, for an individual.No one will react, because he will say "that is not our member" and so on. In short, I could count these cases a lot now, but I don't want to waste your time. I would like to point out again if this amendment is not adopted, that this aspect needs to be reconsidered. This is only a system law, it is one of the key laws in this area and everyone else is a lex specialis in relation to this, even when it comes to any regulation that would give workers any opportunity and rights. If it's not in this marriage, then everyone else isn't so current. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Before I give you yours, Mr. Brenčič. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will no longer speak to this mother because this is probably the beginning and end of the arguments of those who claim that not because employers have said they do not want duality, but because employers and roof unions are imaginatively talking up here. And they don't want to go down, directly. The first paragraph of Article 1 speaks very clearly, although the amendment of Comrade Drobnik was more substantively directed to the law. However, the first paragraph of Article 1 clearly states that the subject matter of this law is primarily the employment contract. Where there is no union, the workers have no one. Where there are two, three unions and show their prestige among themselves, the main workers are left to themselves again. This decline, as Dr. Brejc said, between management or management or employers and employees, will further deepen on the basis of such a concept of law. I'm pretty sure. I know that as a society, we are probably at a stage as we are, we have not yet matured to include this in the law. That's what I saw. But I say that there are many who will be dealt with by this law before the constitution and before the law are unequal because they will not be able to defend their rights as they are commanded by law and constitution. Same in this business. And I am not talking about the 75th Article of the Constitution, which speaks very clearly about what happens to labour co-ordination and so on. At the outset, I would like to contribute to this, with much experience, I have argued that this law should give this opportunity, so that the role of the union does not change, only the partners. But where he is not, there is someone else who will protect some interest that a man himself, given that he is a weak contractual partner, is sometimes very difficult to choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Skolcz, please, in the end, I will give you my word, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I am also inclined to support this amendment for a simple reason, because it is also an open path to rescue in the potential next phase if anyone wants a technical argument. From a substantive point of view, however, this solution is extremely dangerous. Simply because it gives the union more power and powers than it has been able to use in all other laws, negotiations, collective agreements, agreements and I don't know what else. I also understand that it was possible here to agree between employers and employees, who in this case have been represented by exactly the unions that have yet to consolidate their role. But the argument, which is why I doubt it, is purely systemic. The unions are to say domestically, an organisation that is established outside businesses and is in fact dependent on some external pressure, external solidarity and I don't know what else. While the representatives of the workers are loved, they can only be of the employees. We're basically decommissioning these beloved representations in favor of, directly speaking, the union headquarters. I do not argue that trade unions ultimately have no interest in defending individual workers' rights or groups of workers' rights. But anyway, it's a completely different position that the union has in the company than the beloved representations have. That's why, I'm going to say, bearing weight because of rationality, because of the costs incurred in this participatory democracy, is a bad argument. It's just not a sustainable argument. This should be supported and, above all, by the government, considered whether this is a mechanism that will ensure that everything works. The government cannot here be a passive provider of this agreement between employers and employees or between trade unions and the Chamber. He can't back down in this role, they've made up their minds, and that's good for all of them. This is simply a matter of regulating the relationship or setting up a very weak framework for regulating the situation in economic operators. From this point of view, the withdrawal of the government and consequently of Parliament is inadmissible from this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u116	Several arguments have been made here. I would say once again that trade unions can actually establish and defend the safety of employees in all units, economic units and non-economic units. Not the holy workers, and I've said that before. As regards these arguments put forward by Mr Školč at the end, it is precisely the opposite of trade unions to allow for greater security of employees, and this is precisely what the government does not withdraw from, and in fact very seriously cooperated and weighed all professional and other arguments on the individual role of trade unions or labour councils. To deny unions the wish, the role to say so, including a vision, the mission to protect employees, is in fact not an accurate statement or a precise one. I would therefore like to say once again that it is necessary to actually see that these solutions are indeed optimal, especially with regard to the protection of employees, and in this respect we have also approached the final text of this text. Of course, I am pleased that this text was finally also aligned with the social partners. Of course, it is also necessary to say this division, which has been expressed here several times today, in short, so that the saints of workers can also take care of, I would say, the protection of working relationships. In principle and also under international instruments, this is primarily the role of trade unions to somehow participate in the establishment and protection of labour relations, while the role of the labour councils or working representations is more of a role of representatives, and here there is this difference and I believe that in essence these solutions, which are mentioned here, are optimal in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u118	I would like to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs what threatens this amendment and such a diction of workers. Is he threatening them? Is there any danger to the employers? What about the unions? It does not threaten them, but provides them with the right framework for participation. That's what it is, and it won't interfere with the employers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u120	Of course, I do not doubt the good intentions of the government when it has taken this solution. And I have no doubt that hypothetically I could not be able to perform these roles. What is at stake with me is that this law actually exposes in one part other entities that workers have at their disposal. I don't know if that's a good idea. And in that sense, I'm going to say gravely, the union, with the help of other partners, cut off a cake that doesn't belong to him in this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u122	I would like to remind the Minister that workers in this contractual relationship are weaker; that Slovenia is a country in transition where the employer is actually all-powerful; that the labour courts are very slow to grind and are large and that trade unions have not yet developed their true protection functions of labour interests, but are still institutions that are familiar with the past. I have also experienced this on my own, when the unions were very unforgivable about the proposals I made in the negotiations, because I was part of a political option or I belong to it, and then they were very lenient in the same matter because the Minister of the United List was involved in the negotiations. So that there is much to be recognised from this and precisely because the law does not provide real support and protection for the weaker parties, but provides, in fact, or, rather, satisfies the interests of employers and the top of trade unions, I think there are enough strong arguments to say that the law does not provide sufficient support or protection for people. So I think we should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We, who have already decided on the committee and had the longest and extremely long debate there, have been at this point in great dilemmas. I pointed out earlier in my presentation of the opinions of our Group of Members that it was up to us not to support the additional introduction of the role of the Council of Workers in the law, that we were led by the position and opinion of the Chamber of Economic Affairs as a representative of the employer, which stressed with great importance that this would result in a redefinition of the law, introducing new obligations for the employer, that the law would be significantly more complex for employers and that it would thus mean an extremely negative solution for employers. In fact, when we decided not to support these solutions, we relied, in particular, on their warning that they would have this, this overcrowding could have had an extremely negative impact on economic development, as the representative of the Economic Chamber stressed. Also, these solutions could in some form be even the most extreme and worst form, or, I will say, what was worst in self-government. Specific cases have been mentioned. So, the worst things that were there, all of this distortion, the whole series of articles involved, would probably be the most negative in that sense. So we won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Three replicas. First Mr Drobnic, then Mr Brace and then, like the third Mr Brenčič. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Now my case is much clearer. Well, employers are happy with that. That means it's on someone else's account. And to establish the situation, the union's exclusiveness was made by this provision. When we discussed article 199, on the transfer of maternity leave, this "deal" appeared in the debate on the committee - excuse the expression - at the expense of the third Chamber of Commerce, its representative stated that he knew about this reduction of rights and that everyone knew. But the union rep said he didn't know. It was just blindness and someone to bring someone around. I don't think there's any longer discussion here. In fact, we got fresh wine. In fact, this further substantiates the need for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Brace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u128	Well, in what Orzmova said, it is clear that the impact of employers on the LDS policy is considerable or large, that I do not say even the key, and that, by definition, where the capital government is, there is, I would say, such a categorical hard right. But these are other definitions that I'm not going to go into right now. But it's interesting. The other thing is to talk about overriding on the basis of this is either not knowing what it is, and not knowing the idea of participatory management, or it is simply speaking in mind or misleading the sitting and the public here. The fact is that this provision, which increases the protection of employees, does not lead to a redundancies, does not lead to a hypertrophy of rules that was characteristic of self-government socialism. Look at the successful companies in the world that also build on participatory management, and their legislation, you will see that there is no overriding. Well, at the end. Of course, I would be happy if we could talk about overriding on many other occasions when we are adopting laws here in the National Assembly that cause people a lot of nuisance, and of course there is no particular thought at that time to talk about the hypertrophy of regulations and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. And a third replica, Mr. Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't have as many replicas as I'd like to say to my colleague Orzm. To speak by the employer's representative, even on the committee, they know that they are against overriding, is just a statement by someone living on the roof, up as I said before, and he cares very little about what is happening in an economic entity or in an entity in a real sector. If the union does not have a representative office, does not have a member in one entity, but this entity has a beloved representative, a beloved representative or a holy worker, I do not see any overriding here. However, if in this case the representative - this is the working world - could, because he is loved, the whole collective, the whole entity, the economic one, elected him, set him up for certain rights to go from the global agreement, which, of course, is the dominant of the union work, this statement by the employer's representative is simply a bit remote, or I don't know what to call it, time is inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Since no one else wants Dr. Bayuk, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. A truly frank debate that has finally only shown where we stand on open issues. Preordainedness, however, is a very interesting word. That's a very interesting word because it's this proposal that he wants to deliver that there's really going to be an opportunity for workers to have and reach a word in their own company. So now, if this amendment isn't adopted, we're not going to avoid some over-standardization, but we're going to create and legalize a void if the unions really don't solve all these things. Today, we know that in today's economy, such as the world, and especially in Slovenia, which is still a country in transition, such as Dr. Brejc's colleague correctly warned that this would create a emptiness, because ultimately, the rights and opportunities of workers in Slovenia will depend on the Chamber of Commerce and, of course, on the bureaucracy of trade unions. If they are faithful to their purposes and actually act, they may be successful. However, we will not give them the opportunity to all to exercise their rights in some way in the field of businesses themselves. It's sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Parliamentary Group, I ask for an hour's recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-24-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u135	First, I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Since it is no longer an hour until the end of today's work, but 45 minutes and it is the proposal of the parliamentary group to get a break from the decision-making process, we have finished our work for today. As has already been said, tomorrow at 10 a.m., we are starting to deal with the 25th item on the agenda, which is the interpretation against the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Kopač. Thank you so much and good night.
