ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u1	We begin again with the adjourned second point of the 15th regular meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the regular meeting of the National Assembly, which will be held at the end of the second session. PERIOD OF THE DAY, i.e. on the defence proposal of the Law on State Administration. We are in the stage of the debate on the amendment, which is on page 19 and the two amendments to this amendment. This is an amendment to the new 82nd article, to which we have two amendments, namely the first-signed Sam Bevk, to add "and geodesic" and the amendment to the amendment, to which the proposer is a committee and adds "and administrative tasks in the field of defence" and, of course, to the amendment of the government, which the two proposals for additional amendments in these two parts, as I have presented them, are being amended. According to the following order they did not have the opportunity to replicate Mr Sok first it will be very difficult to renew the application because today there are not all of us If you allow, I am obliged, according to the reported, to continue. [[...]] Mr. Trofenik, he's giving up. Mr. Virant, you signed up for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you very much. In three words, it is right to restore the heart of the problem. We insist on this basic amendment and we are against that amendment that exempts geodesy from this regime. It is therefore a matter of linking the tasks performed today by the exposures of the tax service and the exposures of the geodetic service or regional geodetic administrations to the administrative units, in order to reintegrate what was disintegrated from 1.1.1995. This does not mean that the services are moving away from the customers. On the contrary! The current regime allows geodetic administrations or geodetic administrations to be suspended by an act of the Director of Geodetic Administration or the Minister of Environment and Space. This provision, however, protects, protects, or makes available to customers these services because it locates them in administrative units. This means that these services will share the fate of all other administrative services in all areas covered by the administrative unit, from administrative internal affairs to the environment and space, today denationalisation, general administrations, property law matters, not to mention further. That's the point of this amendment. There's nothing else behind this amendment. So far away from any service due to this amendment moving away from the parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchon was also reported to the replica, but he is not among us. Mr Brenčič, Mrs Possonceva, has been reported for the debate. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I wanted to ask Dr. Virant if this dictatorship meant that those services that had been moved from Lendava could come back, say part of the tax office and part of the defence office. Now they've been moved to Murska Sobota, or I don't know why. People are very, very bitter. Besides, nobody cares about that much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Vukko also took part in the debate. [[You don't want to.]] Mr. Pohorec, he's not among us. Mr. Petan, please. [[You're giving up.]] Mrs Possonchev's answer will be given by Mr Virant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u6	This means exactly what you said, Mrs Possonec, that the services provided today by the geodesic and tax services are located in all administrative units, including the Lendava administrative unit.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I can close the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. First, we will decide on the amendment to the amendment, which is proposed by the committee and is on page 19 of the review as first recorded under order number 2. We're voting. The first vote on the amendment was not successful. This is an amendment to the amendment which adds the text 'and administrative tasks in the field of defence'. The second time, we will vote on the amendment proposal. We're voting. The second vote was not successful either, so I am adjourning the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for 10 minutes. We'll resume at 5:21 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u8	Your Honor! It's 5:21. This is the time that we have set for the third time that we will vote on the amendment to the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. May I have your attention, please? Three votes, a few votes are still ahead of us to finish work on the bill on the bill on state administration, second reading. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment to the amendment, the committee's proposer is on page 19 of the review under order number 2 or entirely at the top of the amendment review on page 19. This is the third time we've voted. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 16 votes against 31. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment to the committee has not been accepted. We are now voting on the amendment to the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Sam Bevko. We're voting. The 51 present are Members and Members. The vote was 22 to 24. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment was accepted. The amendment was not accepted, I apologize. The amendment was not accepted. We are still voting on the government's amendment for the new Article 82. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 33 votes against 3. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article 82 have been adopted. We are now voting on the government's amendment for the new 83rd article, which is the last in the review of the amendments on page 19 under order number 5. This is an amendment for the new 83rd paragraph, the amendment's proposal is government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The vote was unsuccessful. May I have your attention, please, for the two votes that are still ahead of us. The second time, we will vote on the amendment for the new Article 83. We're voting. The second vote was not successful either. There's enough of us in the hall. The third vote on the amendment will be held at 17 and 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u9	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Everyone who's around, please join us. There is still some vote ahead of us, and it would be good and also possible for us to conclude the second reading of the bill on State administration. For the third time, we will vote on the government's amendment for the new Article 83. This is the third time we've voted on the amendment of the government. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 34 votes against 2. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new article have been adopted. I just want to inform you that we are not voting on the amendment that is on page 20 of the review, because it is entirely editorial in nature. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to the decision on the remaining articles. We're voting. Please, we are voting on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, please, two votes are still ahead of us. Of course, so much attention would be due. There's enough of us in the hall. Secondly, we will vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 37 votes against no one. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We're moving on to the title debate. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 40 votes against 3. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I am also putting forward the following proposal for a decision in the debate: "The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone wish to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote is 39, against 5. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Mr. Virant, you wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you very much. A further decision would be proposed to allow for the third hearing to take place in accordance with paragraph 2 of Rule 194 of the Rules of Procedure after seven days of receipt of the material.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I ask Members and Members whether anyone wants to discuss the proposal for an additional decision. [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the additional decision proposed by the Government. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 3. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I am also putting forward a proposal for an additional decision in the debate and decision, which is proposed by Ambassador Majda Shirca. It is said that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit to the National Assembly, by the third reading of the draft law, a list of the bodies in the composition of which it is envisaged to obtain the status of the body in the composition, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on State Administration. By the third reading, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall also provide information on all other bodies in the composition which will be subject to the reorganisation under this Act. I am opening a debate on this proposal for an additional decision. Mr. Virant, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u12	I must oppose this decision. The decision undermines the whole concept of the law, which is set out in such a way that these issues and the questions of the reorganization of the organs in the constitution are resolved by the government. If this list is now required until the third reading, then there is nothing made by law in this regard. It also raises the question of why. Is this a condition for the consideration of the law in the third reading? If it isn't, then I don't know why it would be handcuffed. Well, this decision is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u15	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u16	I have already discussed this and I must say that in some way I do not understand the Secretary of State, that he opposes it, because, if I am not mistaken, the Minister said that such a decision could be reached and that such a list could be drawn up by the third reading. That's why the sharpness of rejection surprises me, and that's why I'm going to sharpen what I said days ago. Obviously, lawmakers have no idea how they will rationalise the state administration. If we had this performance, then this list or the variants of the lists discussed by the minister would not have caused them any problems. Such a list is not intended as a condition for the adoption of law in the third reading. Of course, such a law cannot be adopted in such a way as to reject the members of the national assembly with a scale, if, from this point forward, you are not interested in how the state administration works. This is an unsustainable position. Absolutely insufferable position. If the government had taken this law seriously, then such a list would have offered itself or offered solutions to make it easier for us to make decisions in the third instance. We wouldn't have had any discussions, like, with geodetic administrations, not to mention the other things I've been talking about. Therefore, it is imperative that we keep this in front of our eyes. Of course, it would make sense to supplement such a decision with what would otherwise have to have an explanation of the law in order to save part of the budget at the expense of rationalisation. I'd like to see this sentence in the explanation of the law, because otherwise I don't see the point of doing it. But if this is not represented in some contours, what it will look like, because let's say that the concept is agreed by the National Assembly, then I don't know how the government will carry out this famous reorganisation if it's unable to present it to the National Assembly. The public administration must be presented and transparent to all those who benefit from its services. It's not because of you, Mr. Virant, or because of your minister. The State Administration is solving certain things with all these agencies. I hope they won't be using the words of my nephew, some secret matter. He would have developed out of this, I'll say, a terrible theory. But don't tell me what rationalization, how you think it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, and what it's going to be, and what it's going to be, and what it's going to be, what it's going to be, and what it's going to be, and what it's going to If you are able to prepare this law for third reading, then you can also tell which will be your next measures. If you don't have them, then hypothetically you're not in a hurry to adopt this law, I can't have another conclusion. Why in seven days, if you don't know what you're going to do on the eighth day? As in the Scriptures, will you rest? That's not working. You need to give the list to know what you're going to do next.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you. We had this discussion on the Internal Policy Committee for three days. Three days precisely on this matter, because we had someone there and listened to him, who couldn't possibly accept some things to settle, but he also has a right to that opinion. If we accept this now, then we sat on the committee for three days for free and it seems that all the work we put into this law was free of charge. After all, I don't care if the government suggests it. The fact is that this has been discussed at least a hundred times, this subject from one argument to the counter argument, and is now returning here to the National Assembly. Although there were usually 15, 16, there are now significantly more of us. And that we are returning this discussion here, and all that if we accept it, which we have already endured, and also because of such a discussion, which was so long, we have repeatedly been inconclusive, because many have no longer endured listening to it, one and the same song. I don't think it's right for us to come back here with this content and start again. I'd end up here. I'd say I can't support it, because I think it's as bad a job as the work we've been on a regular internal policy committee that we've "crossed" there and the energy I've invested in it. Then it was all for free. Because I'm not going to waste energy for free, of course I'm not going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you. It is indeed unsustainable, as Mr Školč says, that the State Assembly would no longer have an insight into the organisation of the state administration from the moment this law was adopted. But that position was not expressed. It is only that the decision, as formulated, actually means prejudging what this law leaves to the government regulation. This is said to be a list of the authorities envisaged by the government regulation. This is totally inconsistent with the procedural rules under which the government operates. What would that list mean then? How much would he be bound to the government? Of course, by the third reading, the conceptual design of the reorganisation can be prepared. I can explain it very briefly right now. It is about reducing the number of bodies in the composition, that is clear, but today I cannot say whether it is 10 or 12; it is about reducing the number of government services and identifying the tasks currently performed by government departments, but I cannot list them today. This law, of course, is necessary as a framework for this. Perhaps, I would say, in a different formulation, this decision would be acceptable and possible, but in such a way as to draw up a list that would then be proposed and that list would in fact already represent the content of a government regulation, which I think would be contrary to the concept that was adopted and uncontested to the last additional decision in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u22	Before we voted on the various things, we received a wide variety of data and a wide variety of lists. That is why I do not see the problem in this formulation proposed by Mrs Shirca to get a list. It would be a problem if we said we got a regulation. I don't know what kind of relationship this list will be with a later regulation; it will be the responsibility of the government to make a regulation that will follow this list or not, no one will be able to hold it to the language or to the word. But some information about what this rationalization is going to look like, given that you just missed out, that you have three options, it has to be. From this point of view, I think this information is very important. This will not be part of the law, this decision does not foresee, but of course it obliges you to do little more transparent work. Well, that makes sense to me. I myself am not ignorant enough not to know in what position those bodies will be in the composition of the National Assembly on the proposal, I think that the Home Committee has already been deleted as exceptions. I suppose the government will repeat this proposal. But the question is, what about everyone else? And that's not, I'll say, even by accident, contrary to procedure, to your concept of law. However, it requires a little more casual and public conduct, because otherwise we will find ourselves in exactly the same situation as at the previous extraordinary session to look for information on what a particular decision on classes means and so on. These things you are obliged to give in advance - and this is the meaning of this initiative - to think about them, of course, and then to defend them. If you see the non-compliance of this proposal with the legislative procedure, then tell it. Otherwise, do not deceive this council that the decision is inconsistent because it is not. I would like the National Assembly to support this, so that we have all things on the table when we decide on the law as a whole. Finally, this will make it easier for the government to do business, because it will have to consider certain things in parallel with proposing additional solutions eventually for the third hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-18-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? I conclude the debate and turn to a vote on the proposal for an additional decision. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 21 votes to 26. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision has not received support. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. I thank the Government and our secretariat very much for their cooperation. That's why I'm interrupting the session. We will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. to discuss item 3 of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on public agencies and then on the orderly course. Thank you all so much and good night.
