ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 18th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings as follows: Jelko Kacin, Roman Jakič, Dorian Maršič, Rudolf Može from 17:00 on, Cyril Pucko from 16:00 on, Stana Stopar, Jaša Zlobec Lukič, Bogomir Zamernik, Villa Trofenik, Silva Črnugelj, Bogdan Barovic, Janko Weber, Jožef Bernik, Vojko Čeligoj, Andrej Fabjan, Alojz Peterle, Leopold Kremjar, Dušan Vučko, Sašo Pec from 3 p.m. on, Roberto Battelli from 16:00 on, Matjaž Švagan and Franc Čebulj. We have also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this meeting; I welcome the Minister among us very much. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a bill on the implementation of health calls in the Republic of Slovenia for the countries of other Member States of the European Union, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly that it decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the proposal of the parent working body is not discussed, but a further explanation can be given to the applicant, in which case the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we will also hear the views of the members of the groups. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the Government as the proposer of the law to provide an additional explanation to the proposal of the home working body. Minister of Health Dr. Dušan Keber, you have five minutes to submit a supplementary explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Good morning, honourable Members and Members! In short, we would like to present an opinion that we would like to propose to the National Assembly to continue the procedure concerning the law before you. The reasons for the continuation of the procedure, despite the opinion of the parent committee, are as follows: This law in any case means an area which in our environment is particularly sensitive to each provision concerning our language and where it is easier to oppose than to find appropriate solutions. During almost a year of the ongoing procedure, experts, the less regional ministry, which was only a carrier or one who had to implement a provision on the use of the Slovenian language because of the fact that the use of the Slovenian language in health legislation, other than many other professions, is detailed. As you know, there has been a very well-founded, sometimes critical and controversial debate about this law. Finally, a proposal for a law, as published in the Assembly’s material, has also received very reasoned comments from the legislative service of this National Assembly. Therefore, a group of Members, including in cooperation with the bill-maker himself, have prepared important changes to the version that is still ahead of you; this time the amendments are also tabled in this national assembly. And I want to say that our impression that we have reached an acceptable solution that covers such a need that a Slovenian citizen, a Slovenian patient, will speak to his healthcare professional and also agree in other forms, not only speak but all communication in Slovenian. This will also happen to citizens in the Italian and Hungarian minorities in their language. And that we also allow for the possibility of a foreign citizen to communicate his health problems and have only the knowledge of his language to enable him to communicate in his language if possible. The fundamental issue, of course, was the level of protection, the level of language protection, the level of knowledge that a stranger seeking employment with us must show. And I would therefore warn you or read the amendment to Article 3, because it is crucial. This amendment states that the communication between a foreign healthcare professional and a healthcare user takes place in the Slovenian language and in the Italian or Hungarian national group as well as in the Italian and Hungarian languages. To determine in its acts the level of language knowledge referred to in the preceding paragraph and to draw up standards on the level of knowledge required in the Slovenian language for orientation jobs. On the one hand, we have avoided the most controversial provision on diplomacy for the European Union, on the level of knowledge, on the method of verification and on the location of the verification of knowledge, but we have determined a very clear definition or way in which the employer can prescribe the levels of language knowledge, and nevertheless not restrict the movement of labour, which was a European comment. The other articles are more or less technical in nature and we are running out of time for this. But let me just say this. The government, the Ministry of Health, will also amend three other laws to align the situation of Slovenian health workers with the situation of these workers who might come to us from outside. I am referring to the Law on Pharmacy, Health and Medical Services, which we will submit to the Government by the end of this year at the latest. These changes will certainly be the same for Slovenian healthcare professionals and will apply as of the day of integration into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Members' groups will now be identified by the proposal of the home working body. The positions will be presented by representatives of the parliamentary groups in the order in which applications are made. This is also on the table in front of you, so that the debaters can prepare. Each parliamentary group shall have 5 minutes. She will be the first to present the opinion of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Danica Simšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister and others! The bill, which we are currently considering and which was tabled by the government at the end of May this year and prepared by the Ministry of Health, is quite short. It has only six articles and its publication in the Rapporteur or later in the Official Journal does not need half a page. However, it is a law that has well upset the Slovenian public, both politically and professionally. It defines or deals with the importance of Slovenian language in the implementation of health activities in our country, now as independent and later as full members of the European Union. The sensitivity of this harmonisation law has already been pointed out in June by both the Medical Chamber and some other associations of health workers. The position of the Working Group on Language Planning and Language Policy in our Parliamentary Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, which, inter alia, wrote in its opinion, was very strong: "We reject the bill in order to undermine the status of the Slovenian language as a national and official language in health activities. The justification for the facilitation of the knowledge of the Slovenian language for foreign health workers means discrimination against health personnel, while also violating the Slovenian Constitution and legislation in this field. In order for the legislator to provide the Slovenian language with the status of other sovereign languages, the decision-making should take into account the specificity of the State of Slovenia, where it is only in a good decade of independence that consciousness is formed and it establishes an extradition such as that of countries or nations with a different historical destiny." Thus, in June, the Working Group took note of the extremely difficult and sensitive communication between the doctor or healthcare professional on the one hand and the patient and his properties on the other. If this communication is not good, it is generally unable to achieve successful treatment, the group warns and adds that communication in this area is truly extremely sensitive and is immediately behind communication between parents and children. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have taken these warnings as well as the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and also the opinions of the Slovenian Office for Slovenian language seriously and, following numerous consultations and coordinations, have co-formulated proposals for amendments that build the law on essential points and thus place it in an acceptable framework. In particular, it is a matter of additions, which are determined to indicate that the communication between foreign nationals of the Member States of the European Union, healthcare professionals and users of health services, is also a matter of extending the concept not only of the patient but of the user of health services, which is, of course, of course, of the Slovenian language and of the territory of nationality in the Italian or Hungarian language. It is also important that the employer, on the basis of standards, at the level of the necessary knowledge of the Slovenian language, for the indicative jobs prepared by the Government, must determine both the level of knowledge and the manner in which this knowledge is checked. And in view of the position expressed in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the position of the parent labour body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. However, we will continue to support the amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 and, of course, the amendment to the new Article 4a, of which we are co-signers, in the next parliamentary procedure. We believe that the law will be acceptable in such a complementary form. As it is said, dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will not support the proposal of the mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Surely we must also take into account the European Union's requirements in this regard and facilitate the movement of labour. However, Slovenian is of great importance to us, since there are only 2 million of us, not at all. Surely it is necessary to consider how other nations have protected their language in such cases. For instance, I will read from Aertzegesetz, the Austrian Doctors Act on the question of language. It states that among the general conditions for the operation of the medical service in the field of Austria, doctors coming from other countries of the European Union are required, among other things, to “ausreichende Kennten der deutsche Sprache”. Literal translation means enough. But that's not in our sense of two. “Ausreichend” in this sense and hereinafter referred to as “excellent knowledge”, with “rich knowledge” of the German language. And of course, even Austrians cannot prescribe certificates and methods of proof, examinations for German, this has been left to the chamber, which, of course, controls the ability to take a history, the ability to communicate with the patient, because this is extremely important and in this sense they wrote only “excellently”, it is called “ausreichende Kennten der deutschen Sprache”. However, German is not so threatened because it is spoken by 100 million Europeans. The dilemmas that have arisen here, in this law, of course, other dilemmas, in the original sense, in the text in the Rapporteur, even abolishes them for Europeans coming from other countries of the European Union, including certain provisions of the laws, which are needlessly repealed, exempt from the obligations and obligations imposed by the law on our healthcare professionals after unnecessary and some other omissions have been in the original text. Of course, during the holidays, the ministry clearly identified this error and proposed a new law to all articles of the amendment, practically to its text. However, since, under the new rules of procedure, the government as a bill-maker is unable to propose amendments, on the Committee, our party has proposed that this text be withdrawn and that the new text it has is put in place immediately, and then we begin to discuss a new law that is ready; all the new articles or articles with amendments are prepared. In doing so, it may be commendable that the Ministry has listened to the legitimate requirements of medical organisations. Although the adoption of the Law on Medical Services, as proposed by the Chamber, was also subject to a proposed amendment to the article on the provision of Slovenian language knowledge, this has been rejected, but it is now seen as a better approach to this issue. However, as we believe, it is easier to replace this text with the new proposal it has prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you. The opinion of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In our Group of Members, we believe that it is necessary, not only necessary, but also useful, for Slovenia, to adopt this law. Therefore, we do not agree with the decision of the parent working body not to discuss this law. This is how we think that when Slovenia is in the European Union, we want not only to put something there, but also to get something from the Union. When we advocate equality within the Union, the free movement of not only materials and capital, but also of personnel, is an act of human beings, labour. In our parliamentary group, we stress in particular that it is necessary to protect the right to speak Slovenian with this law. Everyone has this right and in certain jobs it must also be his duty. That is why we are committed to adopting this law, but not in the form proposed here, but in certain additions that we have co-formed to protect the Slovenian language in our country. We even believe that the law should provide a certain level of knowledge of Slovenian language for doctors and dentists and staff who serve and come into direct contact with healthcare users or health services. We believe that it is essential that this communication is such that there will be no doubt that there will be no misunderstandings, that the lack of knowledge of the Slovenian language will not endanger health at the expense of misunderstandings. We therefore advocate that a certain degree of knowledge of Slovenian must be regulated by law, and we know that not every profession, job and job carried out there is equal to the need for Slovenian language knowledge, but we have three stages to do so. We believe that someone who works for example in a laboratory or in some other investigation and does not have direct contact with the user of the health service or according to his or her household, that there is no need for such a level of knowledge of the Slovenian language as is necessary for the person who has direct personal contact and who, in talking to the patient and the doctor or staff, is necessarily serving him to avoid misunderstandings. We will support not only this law as such, but also this article, which provides knowledge and communication in Slovenian at such a stage that there will be no misunderstandings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u10	Good day to you all! The proposal for a law on the exercise of health professions in the Republic of Slovenia for nationals of other Member States of the European Union is actually written on the skin of those health workers who come from the European Union and are not written in any way for Slovenian citizens and citizens. Every patient, every patient, has a right, not just a right, must even be allowed to talk to a healthcare professional openly, openly, clearly and comprehensibly. Without good knowledge and knowledge of the Slovenian language, this is certainly not possible. Chemical names for certain substances can be fatal, that is to say, fatal consequences when someone replaces sulphite and sulphate. This implies that some say that in laboratories you do not need to know the Slovenian language. I'm sure of it in Slovenia. And there is a need to know Slovenian everywhere, and much more in contact with patients, which is very important. We must be aware that even in countries already in the European Union, there are strong differences as to whether health workers have to speak the language where they come to work or not. The English daily Express, which is the world’s largest newspaper, had such a cover that it would not open inside — on two sides of this large format, it speaks of nurses, nurses who come to England and do not speak English or speak English well. As a result, there have been several fatalities. Who's to blame? Surely in this case we can hang the guilt on the legislator, just as the legislator is hanged on his back by the English. And that's why I didn't see in us that any newspaper, any media so widely, would write about a matter that's very important and very meaningful. That's why I think we have to do this here in the National Assembly. It is therefore necessary to return the law to the Ministry of Health, to have the area covered and, in the context of those two articles, in particular Articles 2 and 3, in part also Article 4, to correct these matters in such a way that those who come to the service of health institutions in the Republic of Slovenia will speak and know the Slovenian language. Personal contact with the patient is an extremely important matter and belongs to the therapeutic unit. Without personal contact, without good personal contact, there are also no good results in the treatment of pathological conditions. I think that these matters are too important to be left to bureaucrats who would like to suck up to the European Union in a way that, say, a Portuguese man in Portuguese might ask about the gynecological problems of a single mom from Kozianski. That's not going to work. And I mean, it can't go either. Therefore, the Slovenian National Party will vote against the adoption of this law. However, we are for the law to be reformed, settled in this segment and returned to the procedure. We also consider that the entry and entry of foreign health workers into the Republic of Slovenia cannot be so simplified, since in this case they are deprived or neglected or have unequal demands from Slovenian doctors or have excessive demands on Slovenian doctors. This is a serious inequality that we must not allow. Gentlemen who want to push us into the European Union are constantly talking about the need to be equal in order to fight for equality. And then why wouldn't you? [[...]] [[the warning sign for the end.]] Slovenian doctors had equality? [[...]] Thank you very much. Once again, we won't support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we view the proposal for a law on the performance of healthcare professions in the Republic of Slovenia for citizens of other Member States of the European Union as an unacceptable intervention in order to reduce the quality of health activities in the Republic of Slovenia and undermine the status of Slovenian language. A healthcare professional who carries out his work in direct contact with patients must master the Slovenian language, as well as the bilingual language of nationality, and must prove his knowledge of the language by means of a certificate or certificate of the educational institution. In this way, the patient is allowed to agree with the medical staff in Slovenian, which is crucial for the quality of health care. In the Slovenian Youth Party, in the broad area of adapting Slovenian legislation, we support European efforts to carry out this comprehensive task in a timely and comprehensive manner, but we cannot accept such changes as constitute an unacceptable reduction in the quality of health services for our citizens just to hear the interests of the European Union in the free movement of labour. In the provisions that provide a thorough knowledge of Slovenian, we do not see any restriction on labour flows, since, if it is in her interest, she also has the possibility of acquiring all the necessary knowledge. The application of more relaxed provisions on the necessary knowledge of the Slovenian language may in practice constitute major diagnostic errors of doctors and, in the worst cases, also death victims, as a result of lack of communication, and therefore we strongly oppose them in the Young Slovenia Party. Finally, we strongly doubt that Slovenian doctors could perform their service in Austria, Germany or any other member of the European Union without having mastered the language there. If no additions are adopted to the bill, which will clearly stipulate that healthcare professionals must have a thorough knowledge of the Slovenian language, we will not support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to say not because, personally, I was a Member against the Rules of Procedure, to some illogicality in the Rules of Procedure. In today's first point of reference, which we are working on under the new Rules of Procedure, he has the right to further explain, the proposer, we have the right of a parliamentary group, but he does not have the option of a mother's working body which announced the subject matter of the decision in plenary, nor is the report of the home committee attached as an integral part of the material. I think it's illogical, but that's how it is. Now, what do we want to say as a group of Members? For the first time, this is the first serious test or first actual confirmation of how the dominant Slovenian as our mother tongue will be in the European Union's common society in the future. And this time we are on a staircase in an area that is extremely sensitive. What is worse for a sick, bereaved person, if he is still old enough to not be able to give his hopes in his own language, his expectations to a person like a doctor who sees a lifesaving plant. This is the first serious test of what we will be doing with our Slovenian language in the European Union. Therefore, the relationship between the legislative and legal services, which justified the arguments that could not be contested before the proposal for a law, is fully understandable, by no means, particularly in the constitutional assessment of the content of the law, in relation to the articles to the Constitution. And in this context, it is also necessary to understand the decision taken by the mother's working body. In the material that was in question, that minute in the session, it was what it was. The only serious argument for the content of the law in the report or the opinion of the legislative and legal service. None, despite the fact that 14 days of time have practically passed from reference to the date of consideration, had any substantial substantive proposals whereby the mother's working body could normally, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, draw up a law. One amendment itself was from a colleague of Tsukati. And in such a context, the only thing that could be done in this respect is to use Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure as the basic mission of the Rules of Procedure for the work of Members in such cases if we are to achieve that the proposals of the law will be put into the procedure as we expect them to be. That this house, this national assembly, would have its own moral and other mission. What we are doing today is far from the purpose of the Rules of Procedure. I do not wish to comment on the fact that today, 14 days after the adoption of this decision, the Minister is coming with some solutions that we do not know. In such a context, it is only reasonable and good travel to the rules of procedure to adopt the decision of the parent working body. And to reject this law. In this context, what the Ministry wants and what the proposer must do, in this case, the government, in accordance with what the Minister has already said today and what is in some amendments that we do not know that I would like to say without ridicule, I do not know these amendments that the Minister has spoken about today. Our Group of Members doesn't know that. This needs to be incorporated into the replacement text to be discussed in October. Just like the expected rules of the game in the Rules of Procedure. And certainly that the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support such content in the new proposal. Today, however, we will support, as we do today, if we want a good path to the Rules of Procedure, a decision adopted by the mother's working body. One more thing: a little while ago, Mr Minister said, "what is not in the law can be implemented in practice in one way or another". What was written in this law, and then it was intended that this should be placed with our left hand on the heads of the institutions, would indeed be done domestically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Let me also point out that the bill speaks mainly of what health workers must do, i.e. those who carry out health activities, as well as their colleagues, if they want to work in Slovenia. The reason we have this law before us is the European Association Agreement and, of course, the fact that, at the time of entry into the federal European countries, the existing Slovenian legislation would make the free movement of persons and services more difficult. Let me stress that the law will enter into force on the date of entry into the European Union. However, I would like to point out that many have overlooked this provision of the law, and for this reason, they have concluded too quickly in the wrong direction. Until then, Slovenia must regulate uniformly non-discriminatory access to occupations and only after the entry into force of this law will those provisions be extinguished in other laws, I think three of the health sectors that speak about conditions after checking the knowledge of Slovenian language, licenses and so on. Under European legislation, Member States must not require language skills for majority, but not all professions. Certain exceptions to the rule shall be determined from case to case. For example, in teaching professions the knowledge of the national language may be required strictly, it is said to be binding, but not in the case of healthcare professionals. However, it can, and this is very important, bind the requirement of national language knowledge to a specific job or to certain conditions. Let me remind you that, for example, the media law stipulates that the responsible media editor must have a certificate of knowledge of the Slovenian language if he is not a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. The exceptions that I am talking about may be requested by the employer, or not only by this one, but generally, which bind to a particular job within the framework of systemisation. And it is in this sense that the government proposal should be complemented, i.e. the one on which we will vote today. This is said, in particular, Article 3, which in the draft law limits only to the communication of health workers with patients in the Slovenian language, but does not provide for the possibility that the employer would commit to the implementation of this agreement. Liberal democracy, as well as other coalition parties, therefore support the deepening of this most controversial article, which will build on the obligation to use Slovenian language or to communicate between the user and health personnel in a broader sense, is said not only between the doctor and the patient, but also within the pharmacy professions, within the work of the medical brothers and sisters and so on. These proposals have been made and we have spoken extensively about these proposals and additions in the coalition and are known to all. The proposed law will certainly be more comprehensive if employers who are expected to determine in their acts, as complementary, the level of language knowledge and the way in which this knowledge is checked, if the government is concerned. It is therefore reasonable for Article 3 to be supplemented in such a way as to make proposals and bases for the government, that is to say standards that would be a firm commitment to the employer or some kind of commitment to the preparation of its internal acts. In this way, consumers - I speak in a way that takes into account the proposed additions and amendments - would thus be protected from the possible misunderstanding of healthcare professionals from abroad. Foreigners, all of them, including top-notch, indispensable specialists, will first have to know Slovenian language, how much and where knowledge will be tested and who will check knowledge should be determined by the employer according to the instructions given by the government. The European Union [[...]] [[Warning beep.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Shirca, for presenting the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u18	I would just like to add to the support of the LDS bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello, everyone! As we see in the legislative procedure, the Ministry of Health has tabled a proposal for a law on the exercise of healthcare professions in the Republic of Slovenia for citizens of other members of the European Community. The law is supposed to be dealt with in an urgent way because it is a law that takes account of the EU's requirements in the field of health professions. The legislative and legal service of the National Assembly has already had a number of significant comments on the proposal made by the Government. Among other things, the law does not comply with the provisions of the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, Articles 3 and 4 of the draft law are at issue with our Group of Members. Article 3 discusses the communication of patients with healthcare professionals. This is a very sensitive area, even for each of us. The patient-doctor dialogue is confidential and essential for correct diagnosis and treatment. Dialogue between a doctor and a relative is also necessary at times. Other health professions also require a good understanding among themselves. Misunderstanding or misinterpretation may lead to poorer treatment outcomes, which is even worse than tragic errors. Our doctors are now required to demonstrate their knowledge of the Slovenian language by means of an appropriate certificate. However, doctors who work in an area where the Italian and Hungarian minorities are minorities must also learn the language of the minority. We can already talk here about discrimination against our healthcare professionals. Discrimination also occurs in the acquisition of a licence and membership in the Medical Chamber. Critical comments were also received from the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Activities and the opinion of the Working Group on Language Planning and Language Policy, which operates within the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. The representatives of the government and Mr Minister wanted to supplement and correct the law on the home committee in such a way as to enable the home committee to take over the work. The committee should practically draft a new law. Since more substantive amendments should be made, the Committee has decided whether the proposal for this law is even appropriate for further consideration. Representatives of our New Slovenia Group voted that the law in this form is not suitable for further consideration. Our New Slovenia Group will support the opinion of the parent committee, including because in the New Slovenia Group we strongly oppose the European Union's failure to speak Slovenian. Especially if the European Union does not explicitly require that of us. We wonder how the government could have put such an inappropriate law into the procedure. Especially since the Government has the possibility to re-write the law by the next meeting and to put it into the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you. This concludes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Procedural proposal. You want a reason for the rules of procedure? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I would like to propose that the Rules of Procedure Commission examine Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, which should be followed by a debate today. Today, the debate is entirely about something other than the purpose referred to in Article 134, paragraph 3, of this point. We are talking about everything else, in the sense of Article 125(2), as if it were a general debate, but we are not speaking, as the rules of procedure are: debaters are defined in the proposal of the parent working body. I think today's debate is quite a violation of the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Your proposal to address this issue and an explanation to the business committee is your right. Let me explain at this point. We are considering this item of the agenda, in my opinion, entirely in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Article 134. I think that the representatives of the parliamentary groups have also identified themselves to the proposal of the parent working body and have therefore informed Members and Members whether they will support it or not. But they also identified themselves to the position of the parent working body. The proposal of the home working body will be decided by the assembly in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, as part of the vote today at 5.35 p.m. and will have two options: to confirm the proposal of the parent working body - in this case, the legislative process will be completed. If he fails to confirm the proposal of the parent working body, the President of the National Assembly will immediately send the proposal to the parent working body back to the hearing. This is what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly says, and we have done the right thing and the vote, as I have already said, in the evening of the vote at 17.35 p.m. and I am terminating this item of the agenda. Thank you very much to the government representative for his cooperation. And we're moving on to 4. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of cultivation and education. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with the first signed Merrani Potrče requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. As the representatives of the groups of Members have probably explained to you, in this part we will meet with presentations of opinions, views of the groups of Members, presentations of Members and Members in the debate below, and of course this is the time, of course, where we will have to pay attention to the time available to the groups of Members and have also notified them as necessary and sufficient for the debate of Members and Members of the individual Group. Here we will be helped by the time you have declared, evaluated, and also by the time each member group spends his time. At the time of the Group of Members, which you also have on the panel, the following shall be added: presentation of the Group's position, discussion of the individual Member and the Member of the Group and possible replica. So, I hope we can get this point right. First of all, I give the floor to the government representative to further explain the bill, the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Dr. Lucia Chok, you have five minutes to further explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u24	Hello, Members and Members of Parliament, Madam Vice President! The Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, adopted in 1996, lays down the conditions and modalities for the implementation and financing of education and education in Slovenia. That law therefore defines the basic framework of the system of education and education; we abolish, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, the non-compliance of the third paragraph of Article 72 of the Act, by means of a law amending and supplementing the law on the financing of education and education. We correct the error in the adoption of the law on public funds, determine the time for the introduction of school administrations, coordinate the provisions on working relations with the new labour law and take into account the specificity of teacher activities in education and education. By means of Article 1, we are correcting the error arising from the adoption of the Public Funds Act 2002 when the wrong indent of Article 31 of the Law has been repealed and replaced by an appropriate Article 2 of the Act removes the finding of non-compliance with Article 72(3) of the Law on Education and Financing of Education and Education. This is an article that speaks of the autonomy of the school premises and has been the subject of a constitutional court's judgment. On 22 November 2001, the Constitutional Court decided that Article 72, paragraph 3, was inconsistent with the Constitution and in that part relating to the professional activity in schools and kindergartens with the concession. The Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to remedy the finding of non-compliance. With regard to the exclusion of confessional activities from the premises of public and licensed kindergartens and schools, the Constitutional Court reached Article 41, the positive and negative aspect of freedom, and Article 7 of the Constitution, the separation of the State and the religious community, and the judgment in terms of urgency, appropriateness and proportionality. The Constitutional Court therefore determines the urgency and appropriateness of the provisions of Article 72 for public and licensed kindergartens in that part of which the concessionaire performs as a public service, i.e. by implementing the publicly applicable programme V of the work carried out by the concessionaire outside the public programme, but by excluding the confessional activity in non-compliance with Article 41 of the Constitution. At the same time, the Constitutional Court warned that a negative aspect of religious freedom must be ensured in this part. The implementation of a confessional activity must not interfere with the programme implemented as a public service, which means both time and space. Subject to the constitutional provision, it becomes an extra part of the text which exceptionally allows the conduct of confessional activities in schools and kindergartens with concessions. I should like to point out that private schools can already carry out a confessional activity under the programme and, in accordance with Article 72, paragraph 5, on the basis of the role of director, the Ministry approves around 10 applications each year for the implementation of the religious premises of public schools outside the time served as public service. By aligning this Article with the Constitutional Decision, however, schools and schools with concessions will be able to carry out a confessional activity without interrupting and physically obstructing the implementation of the programme, which is carried out as a public service. There are still not enough professional workers in education and education for all systematised jobs that comply with all the legal provisions for employment. The amendment to the proposed Article 3 also allows for the conclusion of a working relationship for candidates who do not have an adequate education, but for a maximum of one year if such employment is necessary due to the uninterrupted performance of the work. Complementing the law is necessary to provide all jobs with fixed-term employment. Otherwise, while respecting the labour law consistently, these workers should be employed for an indefinite period of time, thereby progressively weakening the educational structure of the staff involved in education and education. The information we have suggests all of this. Article 4 of the proposed law refers to school administrations. This article sets the deadline by which administrations are to be established, and at the same time opens the way for the most rational exploitation of the human and spatial resources we have in the field of education and education. In doing so, I am referring specifically to the human resources and spatial potential that we will try to exploit in the context of public services when setting up school administrations. For example, a school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We will now hear presentations of the positions of the groups of Members. It takes account of the order as applied. There is, of course, no restriction here, except for the general restriction notified by the parliamentary group. First, the opinion of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Majda Potrat. Here you go. I'm sorry, just an explanation. For information to an individual Member: As agreed in the College, it will be reflected on the screen for 10 minutes. This is not the time that an individual has at his disposal to discuss, but it is a time of time to guide how much time someone has spent. If he may have agreed in the Group of Members to discuss for 2 minutes, this is for him to be guided to move within this time frame. Those 10 minutes will start to count down on each Member, this is only the indicative time that the Member or Member has before him for the time to discuss. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present to you the opinion of the Group of Members. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats used the new Rules of Procedure to propose amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education and, under Article 122, to require a general discussion on the proposal for a law. As a reason for the proposed amendments and additions to the basic law on the organisation and financing of education and education following a reduced procedure, the Government cited three inconsistencies resulting from amendments to the legislation and the decision of the Constitutional Court, by which the National Assembly, within one year, should eliminate the non-compliance of the third paragraph of Article 72 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education with the Constitution in work relating to the professional activity in schools and schools with concessions and allowing certain powers of school administrations to be transferred to the units of the Slovenian Institute for Education in 2005. In the general debate, we would like to focus primarily on the objective of the proposed law, which seeks the Government to follow the Constitutional Court's decision, since other proposed amendments and additions are already in the current form of a suitable basis for a second reading. In its decision, the Constitutional Court, in order to assess the constitutionality of the provisions of Article 3 and Article 4 of the said Act, prohibited confessional activity in public schools and schools and schools with concessions, has attached only one part to it. Nor did it take into account the desire of the initiators to assess constitutionality as to what constitutes a confessional activity. In addition, it should be noted that in public whenever there is talk about confessional activities in public schools and schools, the unsatisfied words of the representatives of the official Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia are often heard, which, as a result of the regulation of this area, manifest undemocraticism and incomparability with other European countries. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats has already, at the time of the proposal for a law introduced by Member Ana Marija Tisovic in the legislative procedure, which is intended to eliminate the non-compliance of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, pointed out that there is no basis in the decision of the Constitutional Court for amending the current legal arrangements concerning public kindergartens and schools and that there is no confessional activity in them, except in the cases set out in the fifth paragraph of Article 72. The proposed amendment to the third paragraph of the same Article to the United Nations Group of Social Democrats was not acceptable, and it has therefore tabled two amendments following the necessity and constitutional justification resulting from the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, in recital 32, the legislator will have to "adopt appropriate legislative measures to ensure the negative aspect of the freedom of conscience of those individuals who do not wish to profess their beliefs" and point 13 of the explanation, where it is said, "in comparative school law, there are prohibitions of de facto, parallel, effective behaviours which, for an individual, constitute a compulsion to freedom of expression or non-expression of religion or of the world view". We have proposed that in the third paragraph a new sentence should be added to govern confessional activities in schools and schools with concessions, as follows: "Confessional activity shall not be allowed in schools and schools with concessions when outside the programme being carried out as a public service, but due to the protection of constitutional rights of non-believers or otherwise believing confessional activities shall not be allowed to terminate the programme which is carried out as a public service, or to be linked to it in such a time and space that it could be indirectly pressured on non-believers or otherwise believers." The Constitutional Court also stated, inter alia, that, in accordance with my own belief, "the principle of democracy, the freedom of action of religious communities, the positive aspect of freedom of religion and the right of parents to raise their children in accordance with their own belief, the State requires that they allow, but not impose, accelerate, support or even prescribe for compulsory confessional activities in kindergartens and schools with a concession outside the implementation of a publicly-funded programme financed by state funds". This, however, makes sense when, for the sake of the protection of the rights of non-believers or non-believers, an application for such instruction is required, but not separation from it, and when confessional activity is carried out in such a way as not to interrupt the regular teaching programme on a temporary basis, nor does it occur on a time-to-space or time-to-time basis, as there could otherwise be indirect pressure on unbelievers or otherwise believers, which would be contrary to the right of non-believers or otherwise believers to be forced to confess their faith. The Constitutional Court has also decided, in a work which allows for restricted professional activity in schools and schools with a concession outside the public programme, that the provisions in force shall not be repealed and that the National Assembly shall adapt them to the decision of the Constitutional Court by 13 December of this year. That is why the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats also advocated coalition coordination before deciding on the amendment of the law in the government. She proposed a slightly modified text, which should be stated: “Confessional activity is permitted in schools and schools with concessions when it is carried out outside the programme being carried out as a public service, it is not temporarily interrupted or is not time-bound and spatially connected to it” However, the coalition partners with the proposed amendment did not agree and the current text was adopted by the government. The United Nations Group of Social Democrats considers that the proposed second sentence of Article 72, paragraph 3, of the Act is overly relaxed and does not follow the meaning of the Constitutional Court decision. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats therefore supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education in this part of the work, and intends to achieve a legislative procedure with the amendment that will not go beyond the framework of the Constitutional Court decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you. The following will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Respectable. The text, in the Rapporteur’s introduction to the second paragraph, beautifully states: Article 7 provides for the freedom of action of religious communities, which is based on the general principle of democratic states, Article 1, of the Constitution, and is based on freedom of conscience, freedom of religion. According to Article 41 of the Constitution, an individual may freely confess his or her faith alone or together with others, either publicly or privately. I'd add, even in schools. Further, within the framework of freedom of religion, the Constitution guarantees parents the right to provide their children with religious education that is in line with their beliefs. This constitutional right of parents of the country obliges them to respect their religious beliefs also in the field of education and education. So beautifully interpreted is the constitution in the introduction to this novel law. The new law is, of course, a consequence of the constitutional court's request. However, in the decision of the Constitutional Court and in the amendment of our legislation, a person cannot ignore some strange view of our education, which still expresses in terms of concession, in some way proves some phobia, the palate of our education against religious values. See, it is argued that in no way should a confessional activity be carried out in school premises even outside the time of regular work, a regular teaching that none of the other non-believers feel any pressure on their conscience, which may be atheistic. Nowhere in Europe is this fear, and nowhere in Europe do atheistic children feel depremated or in any way neglected, even if there is some trifle, some element of confession in these rooms. Some relaxation, some spirit of freedom branching through school premises in other countries, and we have some palate, narrow constipation so that no one, any child, may also see inside the baroque pearls sown in our churches or hear anything else from the faith. We have all kinds of activities in schools, including martial arts outside the regular school program or the ecological section, and lovers of barian birds and the like, and none of the children who are not interested in it feel hurt. And neither will any of you argue that such activities should not be, activities that spread horizons to children who introduce some relaxation into an already narrow school environment. No one's going to say that the others who don't care are in the way. He's so intruding that we can ban this kind of activity. Surely the novel means some relaxation or, I would say, a drop of dosed respect for this constitutional right that we have listed here, but still after drops. I am afraid that in this environment, which is now ruling, in this political atmosphere that prevails in Slovenia, we will not be able to achieve any broader, relaxed atmosphere in terms of confidentiality. Since the proposal in terms of confidentiality is proposed by fulfilling the tasks given by the Constitutional Court, we will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. The following is the statement by the representative of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. [[He's not here.]] I give the floor to the next debater, Petr Levič, representative of the Young Slovenia Party. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! The Constitutional Court has ordered us to amend or commit ourselves to amending the existing law on organisation, financing of education and education in the workplace concerning confessional activities in schools with concessions. At the same time, the Constitutional Court has made it clear that there is no room for confessional education in public school programmes, regardless of the type of school. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree that a certain change of law is necessary. The decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected unconditionally. Although the bill is brief, the fact is that today we are talking about a very sensitive area that requires thorough consideration, reflection and, above all, clarity with a view to preventing disagreements and disputes in the future. According to experience in the Young Slovenia Party, clarity regarding confessional education is not exactly the mark of the current government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u31	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Thank you very much. Mr. Levich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u32	The so - called Vatican Agreement waits for a constitutional court to be judged, also indirectly because of the religious education and attitude of the State toward it or the Catholic Church. It seems that the proposaler – the government – remains unclear in the proposal of this law. On the contrary, this law requires clear views, since the Constitution clearly provides for or commands the separation of the State and all religious communities. In the field of education, this means that religious content cannot be part of public instruction anywhere, either in public school or in a school with concessions. The Constitutional Court has confirmed this principle as a prohibition on the possibility that in private schools with public concessions this prohibition applies only to the implementation of the public programme paid by the State, but not beyond that teaching. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we note that the drafter of the law was not consistent or clear enough here, as the sentence in Article 2 of the law on the non-interference of the public programme does not achieve what we believe is required by the Constitutional Court, i.e. neutrality, which takes into account both the positive and negative aspects of freedom of conscience. Such a doctrine may, according to some interpretations, constitute the introduction of a veruuch and a religious teaching through the back door. However, I am convinced that this was not the intention of the proposer and that this vague dictatorship can be written in a clearer or better way. Therefore, even in the party of young Slovenia, we do not in principle oppose the proposal of the law and agree that it is a suitable basis for further consideration. However, if necessary, we will propose concrete solutions to the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jožef Kavtičnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u34	Dear President, Madam Minister, distinguished assembly, ladies and gentlemen! In 1996, a law on the financing of education and education was adopted, which is the basis for the system-wide regulation of education and education. It regulates management conditions and establishes a way of financing education and education. There is also a provision in force that prohibits the conduct of confessional activities in public schools, schools and also in schools and schools with concessions. In 2001, the Constitutional Court, by a constitutional decision, found that the content of the provisions under appeal was not disputed. The contested provisions therefore prohibit the form of confessional activities from being part of a programme carried out as a public service at the premises of public kindergartens and schools with concessions and, of course, also public schools, in order to operate outside this programme at the premises of public and licensed kindergartens and schools. The Constitution of concessional activities in schools and schools does not specifically regulate them, which means that it neither prohibits them nor commands them. In the field of education, this means that religious content cannot be part of public education, i.e. not part of public school teaching, nor part of public school teaching which the State has awarded the concession. Therefore, it must be managed under the same conditions as if it is managed directly by a State or a local community or by a city municipality, a public school should be established. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we respect the decision of the Constitutional Court, which establishes the non-compliance of Article 72(3), namely the law on the organisation and financing of education with the Constitution, which prohibits the conduct of a confessional activity in schools and schools with concessions. We believe that there is a need for a clear position to be taken in schools and kindergartens due to the need to carry out confessional activities. We believe that the dictated amendment of the law, which refers to the introduction of a programme implemented as a public service, should be further clarified and thus avoided to the various interpretations that may arise. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is that confessional activity should be allowed in schools and schools with concessions when it is carried out outside the programme, which is carried out as a public service, but must not interrupt the programme in time and space. We will also support changes in the regulation of working relationships that allow public institutions to enter into a working relationship with a professional worker who does not have an adequate education, but for a maximum of one year if none of the applicants applied for do not meet the tendering conditions. The proposed amendments make it possible to implement the education programme without major disruptions, as we still face the problem of deficit jobs in schools. The decline in the number of children in schools and schools also reduces the number of sections or groups. This reduces the work obligation for professional workers in schools and kindergartens, making sense that they can supplement it in another institution or in another kindergarten and school. In order to simplify business, determine rights and obligations, it is also appropriate to allow them to do so. We will therefore support the proposal that a professional worker should be able to supplement his or her work obligation in several schools or schools and that the work relationship should be concluded in a school or school where he or she has a greater level of work. Due to problems with the organisation and funding of school administrations, it is reasonable that the applicant has moved and introduced a gradual establishment of school administrations by 1 September 2005. In the meantime, the performance of the tasks of the school administrations is partially transferred to the Ministry, partly to the administrative units of the municipalities, and exceptionally to the organisational units of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education. This amendment of the law is also acceptable to the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group and will be supported. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group, we stand behind the Government's proposal and support the proposed amendments to the law, but in aligning the bill with the Constitutional Court's decision, as I have already mentioned, we will put an amendment to the various interpretations in the form of an amendment, which, of course, we will also table. The decision of the Constitutional Court is in favour of the logic of the law. We believe that the situation in public schools and kindergartens remains unchanged. There will be no confessional activity in public schools and kindergartens. In accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision and the law's decision, the same will be true in schools and schools with concessions at the time of the public instruction. However, outside the time of public instruction, confessional activity will be permitted in these private institutions. This change allows parents and children to choose, which means respect for the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. He is not on the list of discussers, because the application came shortly after 12 o'clock and, of course, for the first time, we also listed these debaters. This will not apply to the next session. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday afternoon, I addressed the President of the National Assembly in writing and asked him to report a 20-minute debate on the fact that our Group of Members had declared a debate, it was understandable that we understood that I had signed up automatically as the leader of the Group of Members for the debate. Thank you, Vice-President, for today is the first time that you have allowed us to act as the leader of the Group of Members. But if not, of course I would be in the debate of Members and Members. The purpose of the general debate is to hold a debate on the reasons for the adoption of the law and on the principles, objectives and main solutions to the draft law. Since the proposal for this debate was forwarded by our respected coalition partners in the United List of Social Democrats, we have been very careful about what their proposal will be. And if we understand you correctly, dear colleagues in the United List, you will not object, so you will support that the law continues its course and you will be active in the amendment form. Today, too, there has been an interesting precedent that seems positive to me. Our colleague in the United List also said how coalition coordination had been carried out. If this practice continues, we will be happy to share our views, of course. I think it can also raise political culture in the country. I think it's some kind of positive practice. Our Group of Members will follow this practice. I think she's good. With regard to the content of the law itself, first of all, I would like to say that it is understandable that the basic reason for the law is the decision of the Constitutional Court. All the debaters supported the decision that the National Assembly was obliged to react within a year. Then there is the question of principles, objectives and major solutions. I think the government has very well summed up the basic objectives and principles by simply quoting the provisions of the Constitution which speak of freedom of conscience and also of freedom of religion. In the first place, however, I would like to point out two other solutions in the law that are not bound in any way to the Constitutional Court's decision, and the proposaler, the government, has decided to try to remedy it with this amendment of the law. This is a question of school administrations, their operation and also the transfer of parts of tasks to different institutions. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to remind you of the time in 1996, when the field of school administrations has been examined and it is also realistically defined. At that time, we established the content and scope of the tasks in the law. Unfortunately, at that time, we did not set exactly the time frame for the establishment of school administrations and the start of their operation. And I would like to remind you that six years after the adoption of the law, unfortunately, only one administration has been set up, and it has not yet begun its work. The solution proposed by the government is possible. However, I would like to point out with sadness that the process of decentralisation of the state administration in education is halting, because the solution is, of course, that the transitional tasks will be taken over by either the Ministry or the Office, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Education and a few small municipal administrations, i.e. the municipal exposition of state administrations in that area. I think it'd be a better way. In the parliamentary group, we have repeatedly raised the question of when school administrations will come to life in recent years, whether they are a foreigner in the system, or whether they are realistically counting on co-forming the education policy. We are asked a more legal question. We are wondering where the legal basis is for the transfer of personal data from legal administrators to other institutions and institutions outside the department. We estimate that the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia is outside this department and that this legal issue is being raised here. There's something else I'd like to warn you. The Law on children with special needs laid down in Article 40 in the transitional and final provisions that, until the start of the school administrations, the tasks of school administrations may be carried out in administrative units, units of the Slovenian Institute for Education, Education and Education, or at competent social work centres. However, more detailed instructions for the performance of these tasks and the local competence of the authorities or organisations referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be laid down by the competent minister. In accordance with the provisions of this Act, i.e. the Children with Special Needs Act, guidance has already been given to the Centre for Social Work and an order has also been issued by the Minister of Education for the temporary implementation of the tasks of school administrations laid down by the Law on the Guidance of Children with Special Needs. In our view, this could be a good solution and it would not be necessary to amend the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. However, during the adoption of the law, we will cooperate in this solution and ask that, until the second reading of the law, we also obtain a legal opinion, whether the institution outside the Ministry can carry out tasks in the field of administrative matters which are solely within the competence of the Ministry of Education - in our opinion it is a rather serious legal question - and, of course, whether the performance of the tasks of school administrations can be transferred to the units of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education. We also propose setting up school administrations as soon as possible. Now, I would like to touch on the solution in the law that was discussed by my fellow Members, but it is almost mostly the government's reaction to the Constitutional Court's decision. In our view, the Government has tried, within the framework of the Constitutional Court decision, which is a difficult technical material - if we carefully read the Constitutional Court's decision, we would also see that, as an expert substance of this decision, different literature is cited, in domestic and foreign comparative literature - so we find that the Government is trying to make all the sensitivity of this issue a solution that would be correct. Indeed, intensive coalition coordination has taken place, including by the Slovenian People's Party, with competent experts working on these issues for many years. Look, we were fully harmonised, although, as I have information, I do not think that no minister then objected to the solutions proposed in the proposed law. We also propose in the parliamentary group that solutions be such as to follow the practice that applies to the interpretation of human rights. The European Convention on Human Rights, and whenever the content of this Convention is interpreted, is always such that it is interpreted positively, that is to say that it is not interpreted restrictively if, of course, it touches a human right. In our view, this parallel could also be used in interpreting and interpreting the Constitutional Court decision. Let us explain it in a way that we will not restrict human rights in any way, so that we do not restrict one human right to another. That is why we thought the solution proposed by the government was open, broad, liberal, in this sense, in the most pitiful sense of the word. In our opinion, it would be good to keep it. We have heard, now I can only comment, because we have not seen anything in writing to date, in fact, in the direction the solution should go, especially by colleagues from the United List and, if I understand correctly, also by colleagues of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. That is why this solution surprises us because it is much less liberal, and in some ways much more restrictive. The solution proposed by the Government is better in terms of the context of the debate by the fellow Members who spoke before me. In our view, the solution proposed will be more misused and misinterpreted. However, in the context of the debate in the next procedure, we will be involved in this. I just want to let you know somehow that it seems important for us to take enough time to continue with the debate on this law. Our Group will support the fact that the law is a suitable basis for continuing its debate, that Members interested in these issues may once again take note of some solutions that are in foreign constitutional practice without a doubt some fundamental element of these solutions. Here we should draw attention to some very receptive decisions of the Supreme Court in the United States, which also has the status of a Constitutional Court. The case of Vidmar is where the content on the basis of freedom of speech was annulled by the prohibition on the use of university capacity for prayer and religious discussion of student groups. The ban was established by the university. In 1984, three years after this very well-known case, Vidmar was then adopted by the Congressional Legislature, which was called the Equal Access Act. And what's interesting is the content of this law. The law extended access rights granted by the Vidmar case to university students, including to high school students. Among other things, the law stipulates, I quote, "The act of any public secondary school which receives federal financial assistance and has a limited open forum to limit the school's open forum by denying equal access to any pupils who wish to meet within this limited open forum on the basis of religious, political, philosophical or other content of the speech at such meetings". We have also carefully examined this content directly from the law, and it seems to us that it could be a very good basis for finding good solutions in the law before us. Sometime later, a similar solution took place. It was a decision of one of the school officials who rejected the application for the formation of a student Christian club and found that the law had been broken and that the application of the law in that case had not violated the Constitution. It is also a very interesting case, and also a very receptive practice, it was a question of the recognition of a group or club by the school. And that meant granting permission to meet at school premises at a time when there was no teaching. This seems to me to be a very, very comparable situation in which we are now moving under this law. Such recognition must have received out-of-court student groups, such as a chess club or diving club, unlike a Latin club or a math club. In this case, the conflict club was a Christian club designed to read and discuss the Bible, to have a brotherhood, and to pray together. More specifically, I have this material with me and I would be happy to show it to you, colleagues and colleagues, if you are interested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti and Mag. John Petty Officer, who made the announcement as late as some, but in this session, as I said, this is exceptionally permissible. Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I will not go into the field of United States law, nor will I take any parallels with American courts, not supreme courts, nor others. Nor will I take parallels with any other courts, nor with ours, except perhaps with the Constitutional Court. And the issue of the Constitutional Court and its decision here is misunderstood in this law or in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. It is Article 72 of the original law, paragraph 3 or Article 2 of this bill, which we have before us, in the part where it says: “A new second sentence is added, which reads as follows: The confessional activity is permitted in schools and schools with concessions, if it does not interfere with the programme which is carried out as a public service.” This is a very loose dictatorship written by the bill's proposer. It is not defined what "inhibition" means. It would be reasonable and understandable to add the sentence that if time and space did not interfere with the programme, which is carried out as a public service, but not in general. In this general system, in fact, the Director has a discretionary right to determine and decide whether or not to obstruct the programme or not. Because spatial interference with the program can also be considered by someone having to carry out a public service. This is said to be a teaching public service in the premises that are designed for this, it is said in the classrooms, but if there is no such thing, and if we do not have a defined spatial obstacle to this teaching, then we can put this lesson under the goat and give it to the classes a confessional education. Even as far as time interference is concerned. We know that the day has 24 hours and, according to certain intentions of some principals, it is very possible or so far it is possible to carry out a confessional activity at the time of, say, the most favourable hours, for example, at ten o'clock till twelve o'clock in the morning, and that normal teaching will be put in place at the time of noon lunch and thus, in fact, de facto or de jure, the programme will not be hampered, and the programme will not, in fact, be hampered. For this reason, I think it makes sense to support the amendment that I think some fellow Members are already preparing and to incorporate it into this Article 2. On the other hand, I think that the Slovenian Parliament is significantly more engaged in confessional activity than dealing with the survival of the Slovenian people and not only with the survival of the Slovenian people, but also with the issue of the survival of Slovenian citizens and citizens. On a philosophical level, we're willing to take it in here and do nothing else. In the actual state of regulation of certain burning and dangerous conditions and relations in Slovenian society outside this glass bell called the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and outside another bell that is even more distant from the ground and from the reality called the Slovenian government, we do not want to interfere there. It seems that some do not care what happens to Slovenian citizens and citizens and the Slovenian people, but that certain rights, which in this case concern the Roman Catholic Church, will be satisfied. The fact is that Article 2 is actually prepared at the request of the Roman Catholic Church. In Slovenia we have in addition to this sect 32 other sects with equal rights. And only where will the principal then be able to include a confessional education for all other sects, so that he will not timely and spatially interfere with the program. Very interesting. In the event that we have a dictatorship inside, if time and space does not interfere with the programme, in this case we will have to adjust and sort things out. If it doesn't interfere with the program, then we can count on them to divide the religious sects all day long, which remains, into a public school. And yet it seems to me that in Europe, it seems that except in Slovenia, but we are heading towards a lazi public school, this has not been achieved. This has been achieved in most European countries. In some countries it is not yet, and in a short time it will be, in some such as Slovenia, but we will take a step back. I believe that confessional activity belongs to other premises, and thus belongs to the Slovenian National Party, not to school. Let the school be lazi and leave people or young people with the possibility of reflection, reflection, and choice. We once had indoctrination with Marxism and Leninism and Socialism, and I don't know what else, and self-government. Now we replace the same object with this confessional activity. I think the Roman Catholic Church will also eventually realize that it has made a mistake. Just as we hated the subject of self-governance a long time ago with the basis of Marxism, so young people will also hate confessional learning. I don't think that's good. It's not good because there's a thinking circle of young people around here. And in this circle we have to cut us off until this circle is complete and closed. But we can only reach out in such a way as to open their heads and allow them to think freely. To think freely means to give them guidance and to give them what we want in the school program in our free time. The Slovenian national party does not support this proposal unless it adopts an amendment which will bring in a dictatorship on the time and space constraints of the programme implemented as a public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. He will be the last to present the position of the Group of Members on the Procedural proposal. [[...]] An explanation of the Rules of Procedure on this issue. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u40	Madam President! I think Mr Jelinčič was insulting in his presentation when he appointed representatives of the Roman Catholic Church and the church as a sect. He should be given at least a reminder in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. Members and Members of Parliament shall be fully accountable. The controversy about what we say on the phone is the responsibility of an individual. Opinion of the New Slovenia Group. Mr. Mag. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much for allowing me to speak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financing for Education and Education. In view of this change at all, it must be borne in mind that our colleagues have brought a constitutional dispute into the apparent constitutional violation of the fundamental freedom of private initiative which has been breached by this law. This was also found and confirmed by the Constitutional Court. On this basis, our fellow Member, Mrs Tisovic, has tabled a proposal, a first amendment and a supplement to this law, but we have then allowed him to submit it instead of our government. Why did we do that? For two reasons. First of all, because, unfortunately, you have, the ruling coalition, such an agreement that you have agreed that none of the laws of the opposition will be passed. To prevent that from happening, we said it was better to leave it to the government or the ruling coalition. The second was that the government intended to correct some other errors in previous law-making procedures. We have also taken this into account because this area needs to be provided for the benefit of citizens, not for the benefit of the political points of individual parties. From this we can see that Nova Slovenija has an adequate tolerance for the differentness and well-being of this country. We have touched this confessional lesson most in the New Slovenia Group. It's a simple thing. The existing law, which is repealed by the Constitutional Court, states, as follows: Someone who has built with his own resources, with his own private means, a building in which he carries out an activity, then on offer and demand, has been given the opportunity to implement the public school programme through concession. And this law, which is being repealed by the Constitutional Court, prohibited this private contractor from carrying out any activity outside the public school programme in his own premises. This is actually a violation of a basic private initiative - it was prohibited, of course, by allowing it not to be misunderstood by the Minister, at the permission of the Minister. This cannot be, of course, we cannot measure ourselves in the European space. That is why this initiative is fully considered and necessary. However, such an arrangement did not come about by chance in 1996. In a willingness to protect the school from any kind of science, confessional instruction, or educational elements, it has protected itself with a filigree scale to prevent anything from touching people. In the New Slovenia Group, we reject any interpretation and incitement to seek to introduce a believer into the compulsory public school programme. We don't force anyone to do that. Let me be clear. But we advocate the freedom of personal operators to start doing what they want. Our school system shows too little tolerance and plurality regarding the content of programme content and performers. That is why, of course, we are one of those countries in Europe that has few private schools. Our constitution ensures that private schools are also being established. The Constitutional Court also made it clear how it is with private schools. The next question is whether the State must also provide co-financing for private schools. In the light of the constitutional requirement that the possibility of effective and effective exercise of human rights should be ensured, the answer is yes. If the constitutionally guaranteed plurality of educational institutions is actually achieved, it is also the responsibility of the State to create financial opportunities for this. While its contribution depends on how much it can do, support must be such as to enable the real development of private education. This has also been violated by the existing law on concessional operators and 85% of private operators have been paid in the existing system according to the costs of the programme. In our society, we must ask ourselves what is the situation with the actual implementation of the constitutional definition of pluralisation. I guess that's not it yet. And the other is about confessional education in schools. The Constitutional Court held that there was, above all, a negative aspect of freedom of religion. We could have decided on a balanced basis. If the Constitutional Court were to be balanced, then it would probably be decided on a balanced basis. However, in the New Slovenia Group we respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, it follows that it retained some kind of ethical model of school established by the 1996 school law in the concept of school space autonomy. In this country, the primacy of human rights over the country and the country over human rights has been fighting for several years. In this case, it is also possible to understand the proposal of such a law that some own a country and with this property they want to capture human rights and freedoms. Also the right and fundamental freedom, in our case, of parents to provide religious and moral education to their children in accordance with their beliefs. So it gave priority to this negative aspect. In the New Slovenia Group, of course, with the same degree of symmetry, this symmetric view, we ask how children, such as faithful parents, will actually be protected from touching the atheistic spirit. This is an equally relevant issue. Yeah, that's right. I also ask the Ministry of Education and Sport how it can explain this to us. The task is also to defend the school against any ideological interference equivalent. In our system, we could opt for a positive aspect of freedom and it would not disturb anyone. This is also the case in other European countries. We respect this principle, however, that we must not impose this obligation on anyone to teach a believer or a confessional teaching. In this way, as has now been the case in the existing law, this right, fundamental freedom, is violated. That is why, of course, we support the amendment of this law in the parliamentary group, because the existing non-democratic regime, which is incompatible with European regulation, will be abolished. At the same time, we wonder, of course, what about the programming content that contributes to education and education to the values of public school. It appears in the present generation, in aimlessness, a social behavior, drug use and alcohol. When will the school include this element in practice? So our school needs to be changed, with good educational content. Why not also give those civilian initiatives an opportunity to influence our youth? The next question is about free public school. What is now happening in the Slovenian space is to prevent equal opportunities, so that the socially weak cannot enter equally with the rest of the professions. This selection, segregation, is getting more and more effective. High tickets, tuition and expensive transportation. This is where the present is the spear of the Slovenian nation's grave. We will support the text of this law because it improves, corrects the notorious constitutionally controversial text. This needs to be done so that we can compare ourselves in the European space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have heard presentations of the positions of the groups of Members and are now moving on to the debate in the Member States and Members notified forward, of course within the remainder of the time left by the individual Group of Members. Since there have been some changes, I will only tell you once again in a row - first Mrs Simšič, then Mr Podobnik, Mr Drobnič, Potrč, Rupar and Tribality. Mrs. Danica Simsic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. First of all, on my behalf, I would like to say that I cannot support the proposal of the law, as proposed and written at this time. But not because I would be haunted by some phobia or religious fear, as was heard from some of the previous debaters, but because of a few simple facts. In accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, of course, I also find it completely understandable that what is already happening is that individual schools, public schools or schools with concessions apply for religious instruction or confessional activities in certain exceptional cases. We've heard that there are ten or twelve requests a year. Of course, in doing so, all religious communities must be equal in my opinion. At the same time, however, my colleagues and colleagues would like to draw attention to some things that we have not heard clearly enough so far. In Slovenia we have public schools and kindergartens, we have public schools and schools with concessions and we have private kindergartens and schools with concessions. In the case of a public concession, the activity is financed 100% and in the case of a private concession 85%, but if you want to tell the whole truth, the entire private part of the time was spent by taxpayers in the amount of 100% compensation. Slovenia is the country that gives the highest percentage of tax money for schools with concessions compared to all European countries. No country in Europe gives 85%. This should be emphasized in particular. Therefore, I think the solution that is proposed that confessional activity is allowed if there is no restricted programme when public service is carried out is too loose. I would like to know who is actually going to examine or determine when this route is blocked and when it is not. I would like to know to what extent a confessional activity will interfere with the content of certain other objects. Last but not least, it also provides for a decision by the Constitutional Court. At the same time, I would also like to say that, in fact, I am surprised by the constant desire of a single religious community that it wishes to carry out, at all costs, a confessional activity in school premises, both those public school premises and those with concessions. Although I must say that I know from my conversations with many, sincere, faithful parents that they want their children to accept catechism in church premises, which are equipped for this purpose with all the necessary attributes. And when I said and talked earlier about the amount and percentage of the concession or the money of taxpayers for schools and kindergartens with concessions and private religious schools, i.e. 85%, then I must say that if we do not find an appropriate solution in this amendment and amendment of the law, I would suggest that we go along the European path, for example, the Italian route, which does not finance private religious schools with even one euro, as opposed to us, 85% of the funding from the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr. Janez Sponik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you very much. In my parliamentary debate, I will not spend all my time, 7.30 minutes. I would like to let my colleagues know somehow that there will be no word that falls into this room that will sound wrong. I am not aware of any requirement by the Roman Catholic Church that such a solution must be in this law. All I know is the professional work of the Education and Other Government Services Department, and then, of course, the political responsibility of the government parties that prepared this law. But we live in a time and space called 2002 -- that is, a general, cultural, civilizational pulse -- but it is one that determines us when we propose a solution. The emphasis on the word “sect” in connection with the Catholic Church is such that it can rightly trigger a reaction in some people and I would like to point out that at the time when the state is trying, the Republic of Slovenia, in order to sign an agreement with the Holy Headquarters, is just so, I would say an impatient attitude towards the Catholic Church, unusual. On my part, our parties, our Group of Members, you will not hear it or vice versa. We plead for a culture that belongs to the circle in which we come. You will not hear such words in the European Union, not in the European Parliament anymore. We can still hear them at our place, I'm sorry. With regard to the solutions proposed in the law, perhaps now is the opportunity to tell the public and all of us that, in the framework of a valid law, a valid law, in particular that applies to secondary schools, there is a legal possibility called mandatory selection content. This option is underutilized. I'm sorry about that. The point is that the current legislation allows the student to be himself, I stress, a student's choice from the catalogue prepared by the Institute of Education. Also on the basis of this, we can call public invitations, public invitations, all possible contractors. Here are all possible rainbows of those who would like to offer such mandatory selection content. In conclusion, when it is possible under the rules of procedure for a government to take place, you might be able to hear if you have information, in what way, where these mandatory content is used under the applicable law. Since it will be obvious that the substantive debate itself will then be held at second reading, I would no longer like to go into concrete solutions, as we are now anticipating an amendment that we do not yet have. You all claim that you say, and in the final element of the law, the government has not prepared the most wonderful solution and we will propose an amendment. This is, in fact, a practice that is particularly embarrassing for the opposition. They do not know the contents of the amendment and then cannot participate equally in such a general debate. Nevertheless: I would like to conclude with the conviction that it is an honour for Slovenia to have 85 per cent of public school and school co-financing. I think it's an honor and we can be proud of it. Thank you very much. Of course, with a concession.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Janez Drobnic. Here you go. If you only allow an explanation, the Minister has decided to respond to the debates of all Members within a period of 5 minutes after the end of the pre-notified debaters. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. I would first touch at all the central media, anything that appears in the written form of words to those who simply express faith. It is well known and clear that this relationship in our country is not tolerant. We are not a true plural society, with respect for human expression of faith, spirituality, and others. This is the main problem in this society. That's what they say. If you look at the media in Western European countries, they respect belief, they respect civil society, they give it support. After all, our Constitution also speaks in terms of a positive attitude towards expressing faith, because it is a fundamental freedom, not only as a choice, but as a positive one that contributes to the social cohesion of citizens. That's the problem. We - I don't know, the public is too impatient about this. That is why there is so much misunderstanding. That is why such thinking occurs. It is therefore a matter of thinking in such a way that something else is sold within the framework of the autonomy of the school space, not only in violation of these things, as I mentioned them - freedoms and confessions of faith - but even a private initiative, private activity in the private sphere. Not by accident. That's what's bothering us, of course. And once again, according to the principle of equality and symmetry, we should fight in the same way spatially, in time, that children do not come into contact with an aggressive atheistic spirit, that it is not spatial, that it is not time-bound. Where are we gonna go like this? It stems from fundamental mistrust. Thus, the Court - the complainant has decided to prefer negative forms of freedom, to make it impossible, however possible, for any confession to come into contact. This, of course, puts all these content in a subordinate position; as something bad, as something negative, as something that does not contribute to plurality. That's what special about us, especially me, irritates me. Therefore, this provision should be adopted. It also provides for the identification of - or attempts by some to separate space and time. This will be extremely difficult, it is difficult to understand, and again from this comes this impatience, this problem, that it is something undesirable. Too bad, such debates do not help to calm down. There are extremely few debates in Western countries. That's where they set things up. And if you look at the German system, the German system even has a religion within the public school, but in a way of choice. And this does not constitute any obstacle for the German public. Freedom of choice. Not only that; the State finances this, the State finances this teaching to ensure fundamental human rights arising from the Constitution and the rights of citizens in relation to tax money. We do not approach such solutions as they were to the European space. We're moving away from this place. We are also moving away from those foundations that have established European countries and Western civilization. I don't know what on behalf of danger. However, we will not be misunderstood or misunderstood: we will not impose on anyone in the framework of the compulsory schooling and teaching programme. This should be freedom of choice. That's the way it has to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much. We are in the United List of Social Democrats for tolerance; but the same measure of tolerance to believers and the same measure of tolerance to unbelievers. With regard to pressures on both of us, unfortunately, we are still present in society with both pressures, and it is only right that there are none. Second. I think it is right to point out that we want to follow the Constitutional Court's decision as it was adopted by its content, with the requirement for a constitutional decision being made in such a way that it is an unconstitutional article because it does not allow confessional instruction in public schools. And it is right to say that, given that schools with concessions and kindergartens with concessions are relatively small, the Constitutional Court's decision in 99 per cent and more of the cases confirmed the appropriateness of the current solutions in the law, because in public schools the church's confessional activity - education is not allowed. In fact, it complemented a part that discusses how religious learning can be carried out in schools and kindergartens with concessions with certain limitations. And the issue of these limitations is what we think needs to be defined even more clearly in the law, as the government itself has done, and in this part we will - both in terms of the time and space regulation of this issue and in terms of reporting or cancelling - make sure that the solutions are indisputably clear so that the practice does not later regulate them in an inadequate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u52	Dear Chairman! Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I applied myself to this debate because I think I have to say what is bothering me. At first, I say that I am a believer, a Christian, but I do not speak on the basis of my religion, nor on the suggestion of any religious community, but on the basis of my beliefs. I am partly satisfied with the form of the law or the amendment of the law that we have before us, because I feel that this is the first step in approaching the European Union after Slovenia's independence in this area. But this is just the first step. There will be many more before we can talk about the equality of believers in Slovenia with the equality of believers in other European countries. Why? Because of these changes, confessional education is also lacking in public schools and public institutions. To hold this, let's just look around the neighbouring countries. This is true in Italy, it is in Austria, it is in Hungary, but perhaps not, I will say, in my opinion, perhaps excessively, in Croatia. But it's also in France, and they have it in Germany. In short, I can assess that following the abolition of the Milosevic system in Serbia, Slovenia is the only country in Europe that does not have this subject in public schools and schools. I know that thought in this national assembly too may be totally unfavorable at this time and that it will take several steps to make sure that this is right. However, I estimate that the time will come for us to come to know this truth as well. Personally, I do not advocate that the only and saving object in public institutions, schools and kindergartens, as well as those with concessions, be merely Christian education. None of us are in favor of that. We wonder, however, how the fact that in ten years of independent Slovenia has not been found in all or under all ministers in all of these ministries, where there have been no experts, has been a common language in order to prepare a subject on religions. Personally, I don't mind if my child in elementary school learned anything about the Muslim faith, about the evangelical faith. Personally, I do not mind if, as Jelinčič said, we speak in this matter, of course, in proportion to the representation of believers in the Slovenian space, including other religions. I wonder why we are so incompetent that in ten years we have not been able to prepare such an item to teach children. We Slovenians are truly unique in this regard. In addition, I would like to touch on the third article - so let me say that I will table an amendment in which I will try to make a change so that we can also have this education in public schools and schools, i.e. a confessional activity. I am also disturbed by Article 3, which is, as a proposal for an amendment, Article 109, where we are talking about the employment of people who may not have a suitable education according to the invitation to tender, but to make sure that the subject or the work for which it is proposed is so that those who do not meet all the conditions can apply for it. Here I will add that I agree with this, but provided that it is a person who has already carried out this activity or who has practice; but now we do not have it written, so anyone can apply to this job and there is no indication that this person has to be checked to ensure that he will provide at least that year the minimum conditions for education or for the work of that job for which the call is made. I hope you understand. Thank you for listening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Noted to the debate as the last was Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. Since he is not, I give the floor to the Minister to explain to the Members and Members. Within five minutes, Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank all Members and Members and Members of Parliament who have supported the law. I believe that the amendments you're proposing will be carefully reviewed. I would like to answer a few questions that may have remained slightly in the air, such as what is considered a confessional activity. This is exactly what we know. Article 72, paragraph 4, describes it. However, in order for the elements of confessional activity not to fall into the content of the objects, the filter is taken care of, this is an expert council for general education that approves content. The next thing is that measures that ensure a negative choice of religious freedom are included in the law. I would only argue that the word, for example, "no obstacle" and "not allowed" - it is a confessional activity - means that the word is prohibitedly marked, is not neutral, so it provides a negative aspect of religious freedom. This is a material and intangible obstacle, and believe that immaterial is difficult to define, but we know that material are time and space, the influences would be difficult to put into law as we thought. However, the implementation of the subject matter shall be determined by the Education Inspectorate, which means that it shall be taken care of. I would only say about pluralisation in education that it has a legal basis, it develops in accordance with the financial possibilities of the operators and only on condition that it provides quality education. I would also say that when we compare the comparability of this proposal with others, we need to be more precise. For example, in the United States and in France, for the strict implementation of the principle of laity and confidentiality of public school, there is a complete separation of school from church or state from church, while in England, Sweden, Norway are trying to practice pre-existing confessional, religious teaching, to design and implement in a non-confessional or at least interfasional manner. So this is not the speciality of Slovenia. In this case, I would also confirm that the Government or the Ministry responsible for education is obliged to implement the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the school legislation which provides for the development of lay public education at the time of private education and concessional education, that is to say, it fulfils the national programme which it complements in this case of education, such as private, orientation - e.g. religious or other - it is in the spirit of humanism and democratic pluralism to introduce content that also develop religious tolerance and respect for diversity. Here I would reply that the selection content in the secondary school includes, however, four times after sixty hours, including civic culture, research methodology, health education and recommended religions and ethics, while religions and ethics are a compulsory choice in primary school. I also thank you for all the comments you made at the expense of the school administrations. We act rationally and prudently. Believe that we are sorry for the delay that has occurred in this area, so we will arrange it at a transitional pace. In Slovenia, the regional structure of Slovenia, the organisation of administrative management, environment, health, social health brings so many units and geographical distributions that it causes quite a number of problems in administration. The Law on the Education of Children with Special Needs is particularly heartwarming, so we are also implementing a regulation that is now being implemented in this interim period, under-laws are being established, and in 2003 and 2004, we will regulate this area, and within this particular process of directing children with special needs and supporting regionalisation. I think I have answered some more grave questions, I would say, open questions, but otherwise I think that this discussion has been extremely useful for us and that we will take it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members. We predicted or determined that this point would end at 12.50 p.m. That's gonna happen to us more than once. The Rules of Procedure allow and provide for in Article 71, thus directing the President to a certain manner of action. I note, of course, first of all, that the order of the pre-notified debaters is exhausted. I ask Members and Members, in the available time, is that another 24 minutes, who wants to discuss? It is my duty, when I see how much more of you he wants me to share this time fairly on certain criteria, so that everyone who wants to discuss it gets a word. I would also like to report to you the criteria that I will apply in this regard; therefore, Members who have not yet discussed will have the advantage, and then the government can come forward with the word. If more Members and Members of the various groups of Members come forward, I will also take account of the size of the groups of Members here. I therefore ask whether anyone still wants to debate within the time available. At this point, I ask that all those who would like to raise your hand so that, within the time available, I can also arrange this time, but if not, we will conclude with a debate. The vote will take place in the evening and take a break until the beginning of the next agenda item. I ask, who else wants to discuss it within the available time? Only Mr Podobnik would like to report on the word below. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. He's been ahead of you for quite some time. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you very much. In the air, I was informed that I still have three minutes. The topic touched by the Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u57	Mr. Companion, there will be no misunderstanding. The time measured so far is no longer valid. There's no residue.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u58	How much do you give me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u59	We now have until 12.50 hours. Therefore, you should have come forward at that time, anyone who wanted to and should have been deployed to discuss those who had not notified themselves in writing. Here you go. The word is yours. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u60	I'm capable of a complicated time, but I won't. The topic, which was, was not in the focus of the debate, was touched on my part - and thank you to the Minister for Reply - School Administration and Decentralisation. I don't know if you're familiar with it in more detail. I'm afraid you've made a cross across the school board. Are you really counting on the school boards to come back to life? When will they live? I heard in your words "regionalization." What did you mean by that, Madam Secretary? This is not directly related to the law in force and there is no consensus in which a set of systems at second level would potentially fall from school administrations. Do you have any information yet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, will you answer the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u62	We plan a layout in 2003 from five to eight school administrations. First of all, regionalisation will be taken into account to put school administrations in these planned regions, or close to what the law on the regional regulation of Slovenia will regulate if we have one. Then, in the following year, 2004, all others were to be set up by September 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, the assembly will vote in the afternoon below under the voting item after 17.35 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We will continue at 12.50 p.m. with the first reading of item 5 of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. Until then, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u64	Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We're moving on to the session. We're moving to five. Agenda item — First draft of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of eleven Members and a first-signed representative shall be appointed. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly conduct a general hearing in accordance with Rule 22 of its Rules of Procedure. This general treatment will now be done. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of the Interior, Mr Rad Bohinc. Dr. Bohinc, you have five minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the Members and Members! The aims of the law or the novelties of the Citizenship Act are primarily the following. Firstly, simplification of the procedures for obtaining citizenship and rationalisation and some facilitations in this regard. Another objective is to prevent abuses in this regard and thirdly - we want the text of the Citizenship Act to be aligned with the Council of Europe's Nationality Convention. With regard to the first objective, perhaps just a few support from the marriage text. First, rationalisation is envisaged in the field of naturalisation. The condition of housing provision and a more effective way of determining the condition of Slovenian language knowledge is abandoned. In addition, we are trying to take into account the starting points defined in the resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world in such a way that they can acquire citizenship on the basis of a naked declaration of registration of all persons born abroad in mixed laws, where at the time of birth one of the parents of Slovenian nationals, if they are notified until the age of 30, until the age of 23. In addition, we introduce citizenship relief through naturalization for residents who were forced for economic reasons to apply for the cessation of Slovenian citizenship and then Yugoslav citizenship. The time needed to stay in the country is reduced to six months in such cases. Furthermore, Article 18 allows naturalization under facilitated conditions for those who lived permanently in Slovenia on 23.12.1990 were then nationals of either third countries or citizens of the former republic of the former SFRJ. This is a possibility of obtaining citizenship primarily for persons who, in other words, wanted to become Slovenian citizens under the conditions laid down in Article 40 of the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. The second set of issues concerns the prevention of abuse. This is about the following changes. Two new conditions are included in all naturalization grounds, namely that all applicants must have legal status as a foreigner in the Republic of Slovenia and have previously made a declaration on the adoption of the Slovenian legal order. An additional condition for the settlement of tax liabilities has also been introduced and the regime for obtaining citizenship after exceptional naturalisation has been tightened, so that the applicant must live in Slovenia for at least a year, which is not applicable to persons of Slovenian origin. However, the provision on the naturalization of minors strengthens the condition of compulsory one-year stay in the Republic of Slovenia. However, in a provision intended to repeal naturalisation due to fraud, this period of three years has been abandoned. Well, there is also a third set of issues where compliance with the Council of Europe's Convention on Citizenship is concerned. Here we introduce additional groups of applicants with relief. These are full-year-olds born in Slovenia, and these are refugees and apatrids. People born in Slovenia are prevented from meeting the conditions of forgiveness, the sources of subsistence, housing and Slovenian language, and refugees and apathy, the length of stay prescribed for other foreigners is reduced from 10 to 5 years. These are the most important innovations of the proposed novel. We propose that the National Assembly support them or support the law for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We have five reported parliamentary groups. I'll give you the word "magic" first. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I welcome the Minister and other representatives of the Government, the honourable Members and Members. The Group of Members of the United Nations supports the proposed text of amendments and the addition of the Law on Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia, as incorporated into the legislative procedure. This is based on the proposal's explanation that the proposal for amendments to the law does not constitute major substantive infringements in the current law on the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia and does not prejudice its principles, including at least the principle of voluntary acquisition and loss of citizenship, and the principle of equality between legal and illegal children and equality between men and women. Nevertheless, the adoption of amendments and the addition of this law will simplify the process of obtaining citizenship, while also providing for measures to prevent abuses; last but not least, it is also about harmonising the law with the facilitations defined in the European Council of Europe Convention on Citizenship, which Slovenia has also been involved in. Allow me to point only to some of the proposed changes and the position of the Group of Members towards them. We believe that the applicant has fully followed the principle that has recently been highlighted in the Slovenian public. In order to ensure consistency in the acquisition of citizenship through naturalisation, Article 5(10) of the existing Citizenship Act, which imposes on applicants the control of the Slovenian language to become a citizen. Nevertheless, the amendment took into account the principle of equal opportunities for those groups of applicants who, due to serious health problems, are unable to carry out tests on the knowledge of the Slovenian language in a stable and prescribed manner, but are proposing different procedures for all of these cases. The law also provides an exception to those applicants for citizenship who actively master the Slovenian language, now that they have learned the Slovenian language in the context of regular education, this option has not been envisaged so far because the possibility of having the school documents in force, either at the basic or higher level, has not been taken into account. It also means changes to facilitate the entry into citizenship in accordance with the Resolution on Slovenians around the world. We also believe that, in Article 18, at least the Government is proposing an appropriate solution for all those applicants for citizenship who lived in the Republic of Slovenia on 23 December 1990 and have not been able to obtain citizenship until now. At the same time, the novel also makes it easier to obtain citizenship for those who would acquire it because of their personal national interest. Finally, let me mention that in order to become a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, it is also necessary to fulfil tax obligations for all full-year naturalisation applicants, while at the same time stating that applicants accept the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result of these and in this position, the proposed amendments will be supported by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Majda Potter. A presentation of the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, which will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan, is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, members of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This law deals with the area of acquisition, termination and registration of citizenship. On this basis, it could be said that this law belongs to the rule of law and is important from the point of view of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia, since it has established the initial civil body of the Republic of Slovenia at that time, and has also laid the legal basis for obtaining citizenship for those permanent residents of the country who did not have the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of the dissolution of the country. On the basis of this law, it acquired Slovenian citizenship in 11 years on the basis of the naturalization of almost 200,000 inhabitants. Most persons, most of them under Article 40 of the Law and others on other grounds. As we can see, the law was the basis for the acquisition of almost a dozen current citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments, however, extend the possibility of acquiring Slovenian citizenship to other groups of persons. This means that this law needs to be seriously considered, for 10 per cent of the citizens who have acquired citizenship are not so simple a matter and therefore the problem needs to be highlighted from all angles. The applicant submits that, in addition to rationalising individual naturalisation procedures, it is as the main basis for the adoption of this law to enable the acquisition of citizenship to persons who have a genuine and effective relationship with the Republic of Slovenia, with a view to establishing a legal link between the State and the individual, irrespective of the individual's ethical origin. This principle is indeed a fundamental principle of the European Convention on Citizenship, but the question would be raised whether this principle cannot be interpreted too liberally in any segment or, if we look at the number, too extensive. We are aware that certain solutions offered by law are necessary, so that in the Social Democratic Party we welcome some of the solutions offered by the law, such as: the definition of more precise criteria for certain groups of applicants, then the abolition of naturalisation, if this is achieved by fraudulent conduct, then we can only ask ourselves why we have not already arranged this. And of course, it is also about the acceptance of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, which highlights the importance of the voluntary decision of a foreigner who asks for admission to Slovenian citizenship; and it is easier to obtain citizenship for Slovenian natives who return to Slovenia after retirement and who actually live in Slovenia before obtaining citizenship. On the other hand, in the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia we do not see any grounds for substantial relief for obtaining citizenship through the naturalization of persons who have refugee status and persons who are essentially stateless. In particular, we would like to point out that the proposaler's attempt to raise the age limit for those categories of persons with Slovenian roots, at least one of the parents, can still require notification of the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia to increase this limit from 23 to 30 years. But we don't think this experiment is the happiest. It is mainly about the difference, say, in the same family, being transferred to a higher level, to a higher age level, from 23 to 30 years. For that child, who is, say, 30 years old, not yet 30 years old, has this possibility, his immediate member, brother or sister, who is one year older, is said to be over 30 years old, and 31 years old, and he no longer has this option. We therefore stress the need to consider a more appropriate solution that would allow all those who have roots in Slovenia to acquire citizenship if they want to - so on - remove the age limit. This is what the Slovenian Commission's proposal is talking about in place and around the world, which the President of the Commission is probably going to say something about, so that he doesn't waste his time. I would like to remind you that if we were so generous that we gave 10% of our citizenship to people without Slovenian roots on the basis of naturalization, there were no age restrictions, then we should also allow our people to do so. We are not against what has happened before, but we want Slovenia, which is probably the only country that treats our people so stepfatherly around the world, that it seems somehow that we have double criteria, double criteria to distinguish people, but to the detriment of our own; this is probably nowhere in the world, and we would like to fix that. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party, we support this law, but continue the process by means of a solution that facilitates the acquisition of citizenship of Slovenians around the world, but without age restrictions. In this context, we support the law, in the event that these solutions are introduced, or we will consider how we will vote in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Rudolf Petan. A presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group will be given by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. In the Slovenian National Party, we had quite a few reflections when amendments were made or when we proposed a law amending and supplementing the law on the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, we have doubts about the changes in Article 3, where "point 4 deletes the words that he has a guaranteed apartment" and so on. We thought that, in this case, these citizens with new rights would become social problems on the back of the country. However, after discussions and after consideration with experts, it was found that this would simply not hold up and that other laws were regulating the matter that prevented such cases. Then the indent fell into our eyes when it reads "for the 9th point, the new 10th point is added: to make a declaration that it agrees with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia" with the acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, the matter was taken from American law and from the American model. However, it is a powerful instrument that can, at a certain time, be taken away from a person who has been granted citizenship under this law if he does not respect this decision, which is voluntary. At the same time: if he fails to take this voluntary decision, he cannot obtain citizenship in this case. That is to say, if he fails to make a statement, the administrative authority cannot issue a statement to him. This seems reasonable and very opportunistic from the state's point of view. Then we also had concerns with Article 18 where it is said that "a full-year-old person who had a permanent residence in Slovenia can apply for admission to citizenship on 23.12.1990". We thought that in this case there would be abuse by those people who were speculatively rejecting Slovenian citizenship because they were waiting in case the Slovenian territorial defence was defeated, that in this case - and the Slovenian police, in short, Slovenia, as a state defeated - that they would gain a credit rating in this case, according to Slovenians and citizens who decided on Slovenian citizenship. After discussions with experts, we have also received assurances here that in this case it will not be so easy and that in the case of former JNA officers the matter will not be carried out in this way. We are certainly concerned about certain people, especially in Maribor, where there are quite a few of them who have speculatively rejected Slovenian citizenship and have remained in Slovenia, but now they want our booklet, our passport, our citizenship for integration into the European Union and for making it easier for them to travel across Europe. It was assured by government institutions that these people might be 40 or more. In short, a number that will probably not compromise Slovenia's national and national interests, especially since we have here this additional safety valve with this new 10th point on consent to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. It also gave us a record in Article 18 that refusal to ask for citizenship should not cause certain social, economic and other people - it should not have consequences; because we thought that this was a matter of preference for personal interest over national interests. Here, too, we have been clarified that the European Charter of Human Rights, which has in fact already been adopted and already in force, is in line with its validity, ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, but the matter is in fact already in force and in force. The question was also raised by the movement of refugees or the movement of new people to Slovenia from Kosovo, because UNMIK is giving the stamps very unselectively, according to my data, some have also received these apostille stamps, which they could also go to Slovenia for payment, according to domestically said that they were bought by UNMIK officials, but also here the assurance by government institutions was that control in Slovenia is also significantly greater in this area than in any other European country. I can say that, in this case, in the Slovenian National Party, we trust the assurances of the State authority, this is what the Ministry of the Interior says and we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. Victory Jelinchich. The Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia is next. The position will be given by Mr. Bogomir the Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State. As can be seen from the explanation of the law, the proposer of amendments and the amendment of the current law followed, in particular, the aspirations of rationalising procedures and preventing abuses of the law itself. At the same time, it can be found that the applicant wanted to harmonise the law currently in force with the provisions of the European Convention on Citizenship. We therefore welcome the proposal and its interpretations for admission as a whole in the Young Slovenia Party, but we have some concerns about some solutions. As a positive solution, the intention of the proposer after easier acquisition of Slovenian citizenship for certain categories of persons, in particular those located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia since birth. We probably all agree that these are persons who are fully involved in our premises and must thus receive special relief from other persons who ask for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also undoubtedly in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to return to all those and their descendants who have left the country for such or other reasons. Therefore, in the Youth Party we also welcome solutions that facilitate the acquisition of Slovenian citizenship for all these people. However, there are some concerns within the parliamentary group concerning the naturalisation of minors in relation to their parents in the context of extraordinary naturalisation. By tightening or establishing a new condition, this is a one-year continuous stay in the Republic of Slovenia under Article 13 of the Act, the applicant obviously wanted to establish an actual link between the applicant and the Republic of Slovenia, but this condition does not need to be met by applicants of Slovenian origin. Even now, the law does not allow Slovenian citizenship to be acquired for those minors who live abroad and from whom only one of the parents has acquired Slovenian citizenship. By also applying for admission to Slovenian citizenship in the emergency naturalisation process for at least one year to live continuously in the Republic of Slovenia, their underage children can also acquire Slovenian citizenship, if of course we expect them to live together. What about those children of some Slovenian origin who live abroad and intend to stay there? Why not also allow these people, these children, to acquire Slovenian citizenship if one of the parents has already acquired it - if, of course, this parent shows that it is in the interest of this country to be admitted to Slovenian citizenship, it is also of course in the interest of the State to accept from among its citizens a person who is already connected to Slovenia in one way or another, and this will remain for the rest of his life. We believe that there is a flaw in the law and that it should be complemented. We also do not agree in the Youth Party that with too broad a solution to the civil status of all those who had a permanent residence registered in Slovenia on the day of plebiscite on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia in the area of Slovenia, they did not wish to obtain citizenship with a one-year new age. We are aware that there are a number of people in our country who have not yet settled this issue of citizenship. Of course, we agree in principle with the solution to facilitate the acquisition of Slovenian citizenship for this category of persons. Above all, we are disturbed by the fact that if this deadline had been after the 40th Article of the Law for half a year in 1991, why, even now, this half-year period would not have been long enough, because all those who want to become citizens will undoubtedly have submitted their applications extremely quickly and will not need one year to think about it. The next thing that bothers us, and we also oppose it in the solution proposed, is to make it easier for a person to be exempt from payment of all costs of the procedure. Also in 1991 it was necessary to pay a certain amount, indeed a small amount, but if you wanted to become a citizen, you could have paid that amount. And we see no reason why a person would not be able to pay the prescribed fee today and any other costs incurred during the procedure if we have to pay for all the other matters that we are dealing with at administrative and other state institutions. That's why I wouldn't, why wouldn't I make her a person who [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u74	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u75	Under easier conditions, this citizenship will be acquired. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Grandchild. Moreover, the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democrats Group, which will be presented by Mrs Lidija Majnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u77	Mr. Secretary, the House of Honor. The Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia supports the simplification and rationalisation of citizenship procedures and the facilitation of the conditions for certain groups of persons, which brings a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. As we advocate a liberal, open and inclusive country, we support the proposed changes: simplifying the procedure by abandoning the condition of a secure apartment, mastering the Slovenian language at the basic level - persons who have been educated in Slovenia and persons with different knowledge disabilities will be covered - facilitating citizenship in cases of national interest, obtaining citizenship through the naturalization of minors when one of the parents lives abroad. We agree with the proposed facilitated acquisition of citizenship by naturalization for those born here, persons with refugee status and apathrid who live in our country five years before their role. The changes in the law will also solve the problems of those who have lost their citizenship due to forgiveness or denial, that is, our retired returnees. In particular, we support the solutions provided by article 18 of the proposed law, which would be supplemented in the second reading. It foresees a special, facilitated way of obtaining citizenship for persons who had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12. and have lived continuously in Slovenia since then. The law provides for a reasonable deadline for filing an application - one year and the procedure will not be subject to the payment of an administrative fee. There are several different assessments of the number of persons pursued by this article, and there are certainly several thousand. The problem of the so-called deleted inhabitants of Slovenia began with the formation of our country. By means of the Citizenship Act, the Republic of Slovenia has made it possible to acquire Slovenian citizenship for all those citizens of other republics of the former SFRJ, who, on the day of plebiscite, had a registered permanent residence in Slovenia and have actually lived with us. In those crucial months when we all had republican and Yugoslav citizenship - the Republic was granted almost automatically, according to the permanent residence - many people in Slovenia for a variety of reasons and reasons did not take advantage of a short 6-month period to regulate the citizenship of the new state. That's how they became strangers. However, the 1991 Aliens Act placed these people in an impossible legal position, since it did not automatically grant them the right to permanent residence and did not fulfil the conditions for obtaining a new residence permit, since they should have remained in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia for at least three years on the basis of a temporary residence permit. Thus, a large number of people, according to some data, were even 80,000 deleted from the register of permanent residents and copied to the register of foreigners with their permanent residence taken away. With this, they lost documents, health care, pensions. Only in 1999 did the law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries, the successors of the former SFRJ, try to correct errors in the Republic of Slovenia since 1991. With a very short period of 3 months, the possibility of re-establishing a permanent residence was given, with the restriction conditions being re-established: the registered permanent residence on 23.12.1990 or, in fact, the continuous stay in Slovenia from 25 June 1991 onwards. This law has in some ways legalized the residence of the said so-called foreigners. However, since the 1999 law does not remove the dilemma of whether the status regime should be regarded as a right to return, this is from the loss of status, or only onward, and since the Association of the Deleted People of Slovenia has given an initiative to assess its constitutionality, the second reading of the law now under consideration in this Article 18 would be to clear and supplement the law. However, we should also consider the condition of continuous residence from 23 December 1990 on the grounds that this condition raises the issue of those who would otherwise have the right to permanent residence and citizenship years ago, but have left the country because of the loss of status. Since one of the objectives of the adoption of the law is also the signed ratification of the European Convention on the Nationality of the Council of Europe of 1997 - Slovenia has been involved since 1993 onwards - we also want an answer as to how and to what extent the Conventions have been incorporated into their legislation by the members of the European Union. In the LDS Group, we believe that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration and we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Lydia Majnik. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First, I give my word to Mr. Miran Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Ms Majda Potrat presented the Group's position on this law, so I would like to say just a few words and views of the Group on the issue of amendments and additions to Article 18 of the Act. First, our belief is that it is the first and most important interest of the state, that the status issue in the country is regulated by everyone who resides here: either that it is a citizen or that it has a regulated foreign status, or that it has a regulated refugee status and so on. And if we are aware, I think it is right that we know that there are so many and so many people in the Republic of Slovenia - there are also thousands of people talking about them - who do not yet have clearly regulated status according to any of these grounds, that it is precisely this opportunity to take advantage of the possibility of finding a smart solution to this status being regulated. Secondly: I think that when we assess how to allow a certain deadline by supplementing Article 18 for simplifying the acquisition of citizenship of those who formally had this right on 23 December 1990, it is right - at least in our opinion - to come from certain assumptions. One of these assumptions was the fact that we were then preparing for independence and that we were then firmly convinced that, in order to be credible in the world, we must ensure that we have plebiscite, that this plebiscite will provide the required majority, at least the pre-50 absolute majority, and that we will have the right to participate and vote on plebiscite at all times in the country, whether we formally have or not Slovenian citizenship. We have met all these conditions, and today we estimate that this was an important reason to recognise Slovenia for having decided to separate, that Slovenia was recognised as the successor in addition to others, the former SFRJ, and all that was positive about this. That is why I think it would be wrong to consider whether, even as far as citizenship is concerned, it was our decision to ensure for six months the possibility of obtaining citizenship for all, whether generous or not. It followed reality in that period and our desire for independence and our desire for credibility in the world. This is our starting point. Thirdly, I think it is right to say that this was in some way a historic, crucial period for all of us and that it is not possible to assume that everyone knew then what is being done and what are the decisions and what are the formal conditions. We know that it has also been for children whose parents have not arranged it; we know that it has been for people whose ability to read and understand the laws and regulations is likely to be questionable. We know, and that's true, but it was also for people who didn't want to, knew whether they could make a decision. Among them, individuals were able to do so for speculative reasons, but many among them could do so also because they simply did not know the situation and the innumerability of the assessment of what one or the other decision would mean and then the uncertainty. And to say that that time wasn't in some way uncertain, it was hard. For all of us who were Slovenes and Slovenes, for all of us who lived here, for all of us who wanted to be independent and for whom we had done something, the decision was simple. For many, it was probably not and is not possible, I would say, that everyone who was then in a half year, which was relatively favourable and at the same time after many decisions of the Constitutional Court, despite all the short time that someone could not make a decision at that time. That's why we think it's wise to open a new deadline. One year is real, and I think it's right to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Potch. I give my word to Mr. Franz Puksic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Chairman. A warm welcome to the Minister and to the representatives of the government. Colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world adopted by this National Assembly on 23 January 2002 also stated in its fourth chapter 4.5: “Repatriation of citizenship and stateless status”. One of these segments is modified by the amendment of the Citizenship Act but is being amended and supplemented. Government proposals to amend this law, in the light of the Slovenians around the world and in their place, are welcome. The Commission for Slovenians, both in place and around the world, discussed the amendment of this law at its last meeting. In view of its functioning under the new rules of procedure, I will say, it has even prepared four supplements in stock. Therefore, I will speak a few words about these four supplements, although there will be substantive amendments to the speech on the parent's working body, to which we will also convey it, and then on the second reading of the law. Since all these supplements have been adopted by the Commission for Slovenians in place and globally, of course, it is expected that the Government will also give positive views to these additions to the treatment of the mother body, and that by amending this law and thereby complementing the law with the perspective of the Slovenes in place and worldwide, we are reminded by the Slovenians in place and around the world, or by visiting countries or visits, when they themselves arrive in their homeland - in short, of specific problems. I am pleased that, following the adoption of the resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world and the resolution on Slovenians in place since 1996, the wider Slovenian public, Slovenian media and people of the Republic of Slovenia have somehow become more attentive and more aware that it is part of the Slovenian nation, which is scattered around the world, also part of the Slovenian national body. However, there is, of course, a lot more to be done to implement the resolution, and we are all aware of it. First, a few sentences on what we propose should be added at the second reading. The Commission for Slovenians, in place and around the world, has added to this, which foresees that Slovenian foreigners and their descendants would be specifically mentioned in the law as beneficiaries of Slovenian citizenship. This would also be in line with our resolution or with the 1996 resolution. Well, there has been some debate and also opinions on the amendment of the article, which says that it is possible to obtain - that is, the person entitled to citizenship by birth, the person who, before 1991, has thus completed 23 years or now at the time of 30 years. Here we simply suggest that this restriction does not exist. For one simple reason: if we look at very micro, what does it mean? In particular, it means that in a family where one of the parents of Slovenian origin can, after now, have a valid law, a younger child born since 1969 can obtain citizenship by birth. The one who was born just before 1968 can't get it by birth. This means separating citizenship in such a way, in the same family, in the same father and mother - we find it inappropriate, even we think, personally, I do not even think that it is in conformity with human rights, and I even think that it is not in accordance with the fundamental principles of the European Convention on the Nationality of the Council of Europe. So, regardless of the fact that this year changes: 23, 30, 35, whatever the case, it makes the most sense that the Commission also proposes that this be completed, or that the year, the year, be deleted, and then the matter is settled. The next part we discussed is the proposal that a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who lives abroad and who for purely economic or social reasons would be granted a negative exemption from the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia be granted such an application. This means that such a citizen, with this possibility, remains a Slovenian citizen, and, of course, this option would relieve some cases of Slovenians living abroad solely for economic and social reasons - that is to say, for a request in this direction. As I said at the outset, the amendment of the Citizenship Act in this Chapter 4.5 changes and complements in a positive way, from the point of view of the Slovenians in place and around the world. With these additions, these changes will have concrete content, and this is the content that Slovenians from the place and the world have warned about at the time of the two-time meeting in Parliament, that is, all of the Slovenians of the world in our Parliament, and that is to say enough arguments to make this happen. There are still, I will say, many unresolved areas, especially in the areas of repatriation such as: permanent residence, scholarships, apartments, health insurance, such as driving permits, nostration of diplomas [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u82	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u83	So, specific things, the price of passports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr France Rokavac, who will be the next debater. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Dear Members and Members! I'd like to briefly touch on maybe just two questions. One has already been explained by the forerunner enough, Mr Pukšič. In fact, it is a question of what is the strategic direction of the state of Slovenia with regard to opening up the possibility of acquiring citizenship for Slovenes and Slovenians living around the world. This is probably one of the fundamental questions that the drafter or the national assembly should ask as a legislator. Indeed, the fact is that many successful countries have dealt with this issue very delicately and very liberally. Liberally in this respect, because actually opening up the possibility of gaining citizenship to living fellow citizens around the world is in fact one of the best opportunities for promoting their own country in the world, and of course one of the best ways of raising awareness of the world's public, as well as of their own country's issues, as well as of issues related to global policy as a whole. Here we have a series of very eloquent and clear cases that we know well. Therefore, in fact, I think that further to the process of this bill, we need to listen in depth to the comments addressed to the law itself by the evictive society of Slovenia in the world, which actually offers here even a range of possible solutions, which the Slovenians are actually alerting to, living around the world. By the way, I have two more moments to alert. The first moment Slovenians living around the world face in concrete terms is the process of obtaining citizenship. This mainly lasts through diplomatic-consular representations, usually for more and more years. This I think is a process that is actually incomparable and which needs to be simplified very quickly and effectively. The second is also the issue of fees or fees to be paid when applying for citizenship. This tax in the world is about $270 - which is inadequately higher than our home tax. These are, for example, only two cases, with which, in fact, Slovenians living around the world are given a significantly more difficult position, in addition to all others that I will not list, because they have forwarded them to all Members and Members of Parliament or we have received them through the emigration society of Slovenia in the world. I therefore expect that, in preparing the draft law for second reading, the applicant will, in fact, take a thorough look at these comments, which I think are still quite appropriate. And the second question is the question of collecting or applying for citizenship at home. In a number of European countries, these roles are collected by municipalities. Of course, the procedure, in cooperation with the State, is then dealt with in parallel through a lower level of government. I think that the process of acquiring citizenship in the country of origin is actually a procedure where it would be appropriate to involve both the local community on the one hand and the country on the other. It would therefore make sense for the proposer to consider this possibility as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you for the debate. Here comes Mr Joža Ašić's debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u87	Nice greeting and thank you for your word. I probably won't need as much time as I'm willing to say for what I'm about to say under this law. I am, of course, joining all those who think it is very good to try, after almost 10 years, to resolve those open issues that have accumulated with regard to the acquisition or loss of citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. And I agree with the government's efforts to rationalise this area. Of course, I also understand all those who may have expected more, more, open doors from this law, perhaps a complex solution to the problem of Slovenians outside the borders of our country, which is probably not possible to do so with an act which addresses the possibility of obtaining citizenship for all categories of people who are interested in it, both Slovenians, citizens or residents of Slovenian origin, as well as foreigners who are not of Slovenian origin. And here is the trap that will probably need to be very precisely defined in further consideration of this law. Because the amendment, which we have drafted in the Slovenian Commission around the world, has probably been dealt with fairly unilaterally, with regard to how to resolve the issue of Slovenians; it is said, applicants for citizenship of Slovenian origin. However, since this Article 2 of the Law refers to Article 6 of the existing law, and this Article 5 of the existing law, it is clear that it is for all those who had the nationality of Slovenia on the day - and their descendants, for the right then passed on, under the old law, to children under the age of 18 and after the proposal of the Commission for the complete deletion of this category. I expect the government, which will work thoroughly in this area, to prepare, if possible, another complementary solution and, of course, explain its view of this issue, which may even be the most open in further discussions. We must be aware that even after these tens and more years of Slovenian independence, Slovenia is also in a completely different position, given that we are just before entering the European Union, that we have an extremely large number of bilateral visa waiver agreements between countries and that the abuses that they can lead and that the possible abuses that may be a condition for someone to apply for citizenship in general are also going in this direction, that of course our passport allows for a much better journey to the countries of the European Union and to other countries, particularly the US, today and in the future. We have also heard this several times during our visit to South America, when some are interested in the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia just so that we can move because of economic and social conditions; not to Slovenia, but mainly to the United States or perhaps to some countries of the European Union. Thus, from all these aspects, when adopting this law and new requirements, how to extend it and which areas to cover it, of course, we must be very careful - and I support, of course, in the first place, this objective of the law, to rationalise the procedure, to shorten the deadlines in justified requirements and to eliminate those injustices that may have been committed so far to those who have not settled this status in due time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Auschwitz. I give the floor to Mrs. Maja Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself believe that the law on citizenship from the time of the creation of the country constitutes an important distinction in the area where each country actually makes a sovereign decision on the acquisition, termination and registration of citizens. However, it is one of the rare laws which is not subject to alignment with the acquis of the European Union, but it is certainly a matter of compliance with the provisions of the European Council of Europe Convention on Citizenship. In particular, it seems important to me that it is also a means of facilitating the acquisition of citizenship for Slovenian natives who did not live in Slovenia prior to their acquisition, but who return back. The proposed change in the acquisition of citizenship, when the age limit for the notification of citizenship increases from 23 to 30 years, is certainly to be welcomed, but I believe that this will enable people to have a longer period during which they can claim citizenship. I believe, however, that the Slovenians around the world could even delete this limit or that there would be no border at all. The added conditions regarding the acceptance of the citizenship of the Slovenian emigrant and his progeny actually give the opportunity and extend the conditions, as well as an additional condition for obtaining the citizenship of a child whose parent has already acquired citizenship and the child has not yet reached the age of 18. However, under the changed conditions for naturalisation, in order to facilitate the acquisition of citizenship, I do not think that caution has been established and that the Government or the proposer will find the right limit, which will be most optimal. Amendments and additions to the law certainly mean the updating of the original law from the time of independence and the modification of certain provisions that cause difficulties in practice in naturalisation procedures. The purpose of simplification and rationalisation of the procedure, which must be reasonable, is unlikely to be fully achieved, but I certainly expect that the new provisions will be more effective in the case of abuses of the law. I therefore support the changes and additions that are going towards good solutions in the field of citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Maja Zupan. It would now be the turn of Mr Victory Jelinčič the Noble, who has also applied as a Member, but is not here. That is why I will follow the order and give my word to Mr Joseph Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. What I would like to say in this debate is, in one part, actually linked to the context of a debate that was significantly more turbulent ten years ago. I welcome this calm tone in which we are solving the problems of people who, just as they were living with us today, have come to the situation in some web of circumstances, that they have remained virtually without their civil and political rights, which is likely to be difficult for many in this House, given that Slovenia is trying to establish itself as a country which, I will say, is very sensitive to the problems that people in its territory have. Mr Potts talked here about some of the circumstances in which the law arose at the time. I would say myself that the assumption of the then law that Yugoslavia would fall apart or disintegrate was more specifically said that it would evolve in a peaceful manner. As you know, this assumption did not hold back and the things that were happening in the former republics of the former Yugoslavia were a lot of people who may have thought that they had a choice in terms of residence in Slovenia, and they later pushed into the situation that they did not actually have this choice. This also seems to me to be an important circumstance for the amendment of this law. That is why it seems to me that we can say that this is not only a matter of generosity, as we would always like to show in Slovenia, but to clear up our problems in a more, say, reasonable time frame. If we draw a parallel with other laws, when we don't know how to correct the wrongs that happened 50 years ago, it seems to me that if we don't deal with these things right now with those people who lived with us, that this is going to be significantly harder in a year, two or ten. In this respect, the law is good and welcome, and in this sense initiatives that go beyond this basic are also meaningful. Thus, the acquisition of citizenship from the point of view of those people who could become citizens by birth. If the law extends in this direction in the second reading, then I would expect more concrete initiatives from my colleagues so that they can also be supported. But I am asking a question about these tightening conditions of actual stay and replacement, if I understand correctly, with some legal stay. All of this is meaningful and logical and also consistent in the concept of the law, but we will release a few more cases, so that I may not have been precise enough in this reading when there will be situations when someone actually left Slovenia at a time when they were unable to resolve these issues and his family stayed here. There's quite a few of these cases. And in this case, of course, someone is, say, at this point in Croatia, who wants to be a Slovenian citizen, whether he is in Serbia - he wants to be a Slovenian citizen, but will not meet the conditions of lawful residence. The family you created, either lives here or has all these papers arranged. I am aware that this is about enlargement, that it is not about those people who have stayed here in one way or another, but they are of the same population. And I ask whether it is possible to do something for their own benefit, with this cumulation of course, that they have this connection with the family without exploiting any discretion that is possible under this law under special circumstances. In short, I want the National Assembly to have a second and final hearing as soon as possible, and that, despite the fact that this is not a law that needs to be brought into line with external regulations, it is certainly the law that has to regulate these things before we become members of the family of European nations, because it seems to me that this is something that needs to be done in an absolutely decent way, and in this sense it is still a European law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Skull. Mr Jaša Złobec Lukič could now be discussed, but he is not in the hall. I give the floor to the last person declared for discussion, to the representative of the Government or to the Minister of the Interior. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to say that I thank you for the very in-depth, useful and engaged debate, from which most of the power will be taken into account in the further development of the law, and which has also confirmed somehow the concept that we have set ourselves in this novel. The concept was to balance on the one hand up to simplification, to facilitate all those for which we committed ourselves to our own or resolutions of international associations, and on the other hand to tighten certain conditions or obligations for citizenship. With regard to the first category, I have in mind, above all, the Council of Europe Convention already mentioned several times, which binds the 44 members of the Council of Europe and not just the members of the European Union, and today, several times, particularly by Members, the cited resolution on Slovenians around the world adopted last December. As far as these two documents are concerned, we have actually drawn our ideas on facilitation and simplification. I would only mention that we have been particularly favoured by these documents, Slovenians, living abroad, who have a genuine and effective relationship with the country, as the Resolution on Slovenians in the world explicitly says, but above all, of course, the Slovenians here born and the Slovenians or people who live in Slovenia and live in the world, in short - ethnic origin. As for the Council of Europe resolution, I have in mind, in particular, refugees, stateless people. Here I would also add the question of so-called 'exterminators' - they themselves have given themselves this name or the media have given it to them, otherwise there is no formal support for such designation in any of our regulations. Since several debates mentioned this issue, I would say that part of Article 18 also solves this category, which makes the process easier for people living on that date, and others – I am answering my colleague Školč, the last discusser – also with regard to legal status. This condition for "exterminations" is explicitly excluded, which means that they can apply for citizenship even if they do not have a residence permit. With regard to the "wipes" I would only say that we believe that one part of the issue has been resolved, but not the problem as a whole. We are preparing a recast of the law on foreign entourages and we believe that the remaining problems in this regard will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This is a comprehensive discussion of those Members and Members and other present who have applied in advance for the debate. We have some time left to discuss in accordance with Article 71. I would try to put it this way: first, I would give an opportunity if they applied, and then I would give time to those who somehow cut off their final thought, if not, from the other debaters. I'm asking for applications at this point, and then if I don't, I'm gonna close it. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, the assembly will vote in the afternoon in the framework of the vote of the assembly on all the points that we have so far carried out. That's why I'm breaking this agenda. We'll continue the meeting at 2.30 p.m. Until then, I'm taking a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u95	We are moving on to a second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on foreigners. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation and ask the Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Council of Bohinc, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u96	Respectable. You have a second reading of the law on amendments and additions to the law on foreigners. I would like to refresh your memory briefly about the goals of this novel. First of all, it is the harmonisation of the law with the legal order of the European Union, the simplification of procedures in works which do not concern the protection of the public interest and the prevention of abuses in these procedures. The news concerns several areas. Very short. The first is the area of entry and control of foreign residents in the country. Here I would remind you of the news regarding the principle of non-reforming non-refoulement in a country where a foreigner would be at risk. And to the greater powers of the police in the field of the powers they have in relation to the entry of foreigners. Another large area is the area of visa policy. This is a matter of aligning the designation of visa regimes with Schengen aquisamine with specific procedures at diplomatic and consular offices concerning the issue of residence permits and visas. The news, which is worth mentioning in the additional amendments, is that a photograph will be added to the visa, in addition to other information. Here we have drawn attention to the later adoption of the European Union's legislation on the protection of personal data. The specific area is the residence permit, where we provide the basis for a uniform management of migration policy. We give all categories of foreigners, except seasons, the right to join families with immediate family members. And the next area, preventing the abuse of the law. This concerns issues related to reimbursement of damages and costs, as well as the sanctioning of carriers that have brought illegal aliens across the state border. In addition to this issue, more powers have been given to the authorities to refuse a residence permit even in cases where there are serious grounds to suspect that the residence of a foreigner may pose a threat to public order and peace, to security, to international relations or to the conduct of terrorist or other violent acts. Well, and a fifth set of these changes. This refers to the simplification of the authorisation procedures. I would like to add, given that it is a second treatment, that we have mainly taken into account in the drafting of amendments for the second reading of the debate from the National Assembly, but that it is a matter of additional amendments mainly due to the subsequent alignment with the law on the employment of foreigners and also due to the subsequent rules adopted, the specific directive on the protection of personal data in the European Union. Otherwise, the text for second reading represents nomotechnical improvements, editorial improvements. And our proposal is to support the amendments of the Internal Policy Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 125, I will later give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members, and before that I give the floor to Mr Maximilian Lavrinc to present the report of the Committee as the working body of the Member States. Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. As you can see from the report itself, our words revolved primarily on those outstanding issues that the secretariat considered or, I am correcting, the legal service that the text in the proposed law is not yet right. These were paragraphs 11 and 25. In addition, we held a special debate, including on Article 55, where the discussion was on whether or not the law was right. However, the issue was to say, provoked by the representative of UNHCR and, of course, by article 70, where the representatives of UNHCR felt that it would be necessary to exclude the penalisation of those who drive foreigners to us, of course, in the event that the procedure found that such a foreigner had indeed fled from political or other violence; in short, he has the right to obtain asylum. However, the general opinion in the debate was that everyone who was shooting was actually doing it for money, and therefore, if there had been an accident in one group, someone who was entitled to asylum would not have missed such a punishment. So, on this basis, the committee has drafted some of its amendments, based on what has been prepared as More I must say; that it is a law that was still in the first reading under the old rules of procedure. [[...]] Thus we have adopted our amendments, which are actually the fruit of the joint work, both the governments and our legal services and the professional services of our committee, and have supported the amendments proposed by the parliamentary groups. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you to the chairman of the report committee. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 125 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to explain their position on the draft law and therefore to those parliamentary groups which have announced their debate. First word to Miran Ptræ, United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We support the proposed law on foreigners in the United List of Social Democrats. The basic objective of the law is to comply with the legal order of the European Union, especially in the work relating to the Schengen acquis, with the best implementation practices in the Member States of the European Union, which has also led to a specific review; and finally to rationalisation of certain provisions of the law on foreigners, by addressing the shortcomings and inconsistencies that have arisen so far in its implementation. We believe that this objective of the law has been achieved. It is also true that, with the cooperation of NGOs, especially Amnesty International Slovenia and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, I would like to stress that, with the cooperation of non-governmental organisations, in particular Amnesty International Slovenia and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, there is also careful and thorough consideration of the law in the home labour system. The issues of regulation of the rights and problems of foreigners are becoming the result of our entry into the European Union and the enforcement of the Schengen acquis, especially as a result of the general trends in globalisation, which, in addition to the flow of information on goods and capital, includes the intensive movement of people, increasingly issues that need to be addressed with extreme sensitivity. On the one hand, with sensitivity to the protection of human rights and the principles of freedom of movement, employment and accommodation, at the same time with sensitivity to the protection of national interests, employment, material obligations, budgets, security policies and the like. Finally, also to prevent the risk of illicit activities such as drug trafficking, human trafficking, money laundering and other forms of organised crime, of course, and particularly the prevention of international terrorism. And that is why we are pleased that we have been able to ensure, in the second reading, that the law is so harmonised that no amendment is tabled for the National Assembly on the amended proposal for a law. Therefore, in this law and in view of the remaining time available to me, and in particular the first beginnings of the new rules of procedure, which unfortunately is spoken of negatively than objectively, I say the following. It is in this law that we have ensured by the new Rules of Procedure that we have held the entire debate in the home labour body; that we have achieved the necessary harmonisation in the home labour body and have formulated - I think that 23 amendments - and most importantly that these amendments have become an integral part of the amended law and that we do not need to vote again on them, as in the previous procedure, in the national assembly. This is an example and evidence that without prejudice to the quality of the decision-making and the limitation of the debates a substantial rationalisation of the work in the national assembly can be achieved. Since it will not be possible to table amendments to the draft law in the third reading, we expect that the law will be fully adopted at this meeting, and we will vote for it and we will not speak again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Potsch. I give my word to Rudolph Petan to present the position of the Slovenian Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law on foreigners is already the third law in this area, since the previous proposed amendments were sometimes like a new law. This also points to the fact that the 1999 law, which, of course, stated that it should be in line with the European legal order, was obviously not that or that it was prepared poorly, perhaps simply because of formality, or, worse still, that it was prepared purely with a narrow specific interest. And this proposal of ours shows something else. It has almost already become a rule, particularly in some areas, for each new law to bring about a new state authority, a new institution, a new working body, a new department or something like that, which often confuses and adds to administration, not to effectively intervene in this area. Therefore, the proposed solution in Article 54, which provides for the establishment of a common working body in the Ministry of the Interior, means or could constitute a new replication of institutions in this field. This is true in the fact that we already have a bunch of institutions dealing with this area, from the migration, naturalisation, asylum sector, and within the informed police we have a sector for the state border, foreigners, a centre for foreigners and probably more. So if we find that so many of these institutions covering this area may at first glance sound very positive, but only at first sight. The fact is that this means the accumulation of new institutions and this is the rule that this is not good. There's also that saying that a lot of grandmas, and a bunch of problems that maybe wouldn't have happened otherwise. We believe that one of the existing bodies, of which existing institutions, could also be coordinating. Of course, we recognize in the Social Democratic Party that nowhere does it say that it would not be possible. However, experience shows that this is not usually the case and that we prefer a new institution to coordinate and - well - that is not good. Institutions already have enough to carry out this coordination. However, coordination is necessary and we agree with that. Rather, the examples are bad, and we cannot believe that this would not have happened in order not to get a new institution. The legislative and legal service points out that the introduction of new amendments by the government is unacceptable, but it is true that it recognises that some are substantively necessary. Again, it shows that either the law was not prepared at the right time or we did not take into account everything already adopted. This could also be a small school for the future, so that things need to be more professionally coordinated or more time-consumingly in the future. Considering that there may be a provision under which a foreigner must leave the country within 15 days of the final decision or decision rejecting, rejecting or terminating the procedure for the extension of the residence permit, and having the possibility to lodge a legal remedy. We believe that it should not lead to the whole law being dealt with only by this provision. We stand in favour of the view that each country has the right to regulate this area in such a way that it is not inconsistent with general international legal standards, but must first and foremost protect its interests. This is said to be the interests of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Social Democratic Party, we also believe that we should adopt such solutions, which primarily protect the interests of our country. In doing so, the solutions do not violate some generally accepted rules, but rather the rules that are in place. Not only those who are on paper in Europe, but also Europeans are dealing with them more with reserves or more in gloves in our country, but in recent times the practice has been applied to try to add what has been written elsewhere, but in practice it has not been done anywhere. I'll be right with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u103	I'm asking you to close your mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u104	I conclude right away, and I will just add that we will support this law, and we will make a selective decision on the amendments, which we will also support most of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Zmaj Jelinčič Trimenite to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. I am sure that I will only have five minutes to explain, not because I will wait for the President to remember that in this case only five minutes are allowed, but because I will speak shorter. In short, in accordance with Article 125(2) of the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today's amended proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on foreigners is evident evidence of how Parliamentarianism in Slovenia is disappearing. While we discussed solutions at the broadest forum in the country assembly, where there are 90 Members, we have now moved together to the Internal Policy Committee, where the Slovenian National Party represents one representative. Also, at least 37 per cent of the Slovenian electoral body represents, according to options, a maximum of two MPs. I wonder where this democracy and democracy is now, and where is the possibility of that democratic debate when what is thought is said, when thoughts are broken, when new solutions are found that are better than proposed. It is true that the ruling constitution requires and would like to end the national assembly, perhaps one of the following options, but certainly in a different political situation and with other parties at the summit. Only the gentlemen of the current ruling group will you not then weep and cry how much pain you feel when those rights that you have taken from others today are denied you. As far as the law is concerned, the law is basically good enough to support it. It is good enough because in many areas it aligns Slovenian trends with the trends of other countries and actually brings us closer to Schengen conditions. Despite accepting some stupid Sops, we have adopted a bunch of stupid laws and despite being "costed" by Shengen about 70 billion Slovenian Tolars just next year. The fact is that some of the solutions are even very good, which have been created in the Ministry of the Interior and are, in fact, welcomed in the Slovenian National Party. In no way can we agree and welcome the way this law was dealt with. He dealt undemocraticly, in fact, he was considered in the extended form of a College of Presidents of the National Assembly, where only two people decide on how, what and why. These are the heads of coalition parties, the Chief of the United List and the Liberal Democrats, who decide what we will do, how we will do and so on. That is why I think that there will be fewer and fewer talks behind this counter and fewer words in the National Assembly and, unfortunately, more and more words will take place on the road, where words will soon be replaced by more concrete arguments. Once again, despite the fact that this bill was adopted where small parties have nothing to say, they have nothing to do, as the ruling group, the ruling society does not allow them to do so, we will nevertheless support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you for your position. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal of the law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus also item 2 of the agenda, i.e. the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will hold a third hearing on the draft law on Friday, 27.9.2002. This concludes this agenda item. At 3 p.m., we will continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the bill on State border control. Until then, I'm taking a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to my side! We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE OVERSIGHT OF THE COUNTRY TERRITORY. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Secretary, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u109	Your Honor! I would like to present to you some of the objectives that we are following with this law on State border control. The main objective, you are well aware, is to harmonise with the acquis of the European Union on the one hand and, on the other hand, with the legal order of the Schengen Group of Member States. It's a state program law. Following the national adaptation programme, the European Union is expected to be adopted by the end of 2002. As you know, the Protocol to the Treaty of Amsterdam provides that all future members of the European Union must take full over the Schengen acquis. This simplified means that all, both nationals of the Member States and third-country nationals, can cross internal borders between Member States at any time, anywhere without border control. The full border control at the time of entry into the Schengen States shall be carried out at the external borders on behalf of and for all Member States. In addition, compensatory measures include a single visa policy, a single information system, the so-called Schengen Information System and intensive cross-border police cooperation. This is, of course, the essential content or function of the law that we are talking about today, the control of the state border, the flight of which is also the prevention and detection of crimes and offences and illegal border crossings, all related to the state border, and the prevention and detection of irregular migration throughout the country, as well as ensuring the appropriateness and proportionality of police powers, taking into account the need to implement measures, and of course the interests of individuals, human rights and freedoms and the requirements for the free movement of persons. Perhaps just to illustrate some information regarding the crossings of the state border. As you probably know, we have 165 border crossings in Slovenia. Of these, there are 36 border crossings with the Republic of Croatia. At 43 border crossings, only customs officers shall carry out border and customs checks. But I think it's important that we get to know you about the flow at our borders. In 2001, 186,722,763 passengers traveled across border crossings. Also interesting is the data on the so-called illegal crossings of the state border, mainly because, as you have probably been monitoring, the figure has dropped significantly by 72% this year, according to 2001 and by 42% from 2001 to 2000. The specific numbers are as follows. In 2000, we recorded close to 36,000 illegal crossings or exactly 35.914. In 2002 some over 20,000 and in the first eight months of this year all 4,646. In fact, this shows a sufficiently effective battle against illegal migration, not only by the Slovenian government, but in relation to countries in the region or in the international community in general. For the second reading, some amendments have been prepared by the Internal Policy Committee. I should say that in most cases it is a matter of taking into account the largely editorial corrections we have observed at the first reading, but in particular, they provide more clearly for the content of the new state border control legislation. I suggest you, honourable Members and Members, that you support the amendments of the Committee on Internal Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the President, Mr Lavrinc, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is a law that has been tabled in the old rules of procedure and has already been dealt with by the Committee in a second reading. Thus, we have been able to work on the committee this time, as the debate was only about the amendment proposed by colleague Vukko to Article 12. Article 12, if I may make a brief statement, regulates interventions to a space in the border area, right next to the border. According to his colleague Vukko, it would be inexorable for each location or building permit to give consent even after one version of the Police Director and, secondly, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. Thus, in my view, in fact, we have drafted an amendment in the debate, which is also related to the legislation that arises in the area of space. Then the wolf fixed such an amendment, and the amendment received support. Thus, in the package, allowing for a new Rules of Procedure, we voted on all the other amendments that had been prepared until then, regardless of who prepared them, whether it was the Committee or whether it was the Government's proposal. The result is now a piece of law, which I think is fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you very much. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 125 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First of all, he has the word Mr. Potrč, the United List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats supports the bill's proposal. We support it because we believe that the proposed law guarantees the exercise of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia for a safe border. The proposed law also aligns our regulation of State border control with the Schengen acquis, which is, in accordance with the Protocol to the Amsterdam Treaty, an integral part of the legal regime of all full-fledged members of the European Union and where the Republic of Slovenia wants it as soon as possible. The resolution of both these issues and objectives is very important. Firstly, the law should be in line with the Schengen acquis, which is a condition and an important reason for our full membership. The essence of the Schengen acquis is that the internal borders between Member States can be crossed at any time and anywhere without border control by all, both citizens and third-country nationals. The full border control at the time of entry into the Schengen States shall be carried out at the external borders, on behalf of all and for all Member States. That this is even possible and that the security situation in the Member States should not deteriorate, the Schengen acquis provides for a number of so-called compensatory measures, which include a single visa policy, a single information system and intensive cross-border police action and cooperation, including the possibility of exercising certain police powers across borders within the territory of the other State Party, of course in precisely defined cases. All of this is also provided by the proposed law, according to our understanding and the government's assurances. Secondly, what is even more important for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, the political and economic situation in the world, as well as the situation in the countries established in the territory of the former SFRJ, have caused a large number of foreigners to break the Slovenian border in recent years. Mr. Secretary has already mentioned, in 2000, almost 36,000. That is why the National Assembly has also addressed this issue, and the government has taken measures to ensure a significant reduction in 2001 but the scope of the irregular transitions has still been almost 21,000. Such scope causes the country material problems, as well as security problems. For this reason, the regulation of the necessary measures to control the state border is also essential. We believe that the proposed arrangement is appropriate and that it solves these issues, so we support it. Finally, even in this law, let me point out that the proposal for a law is fully harmonised on the working body of the mother, so no amendment has been tabled to the supplementary proposal. Even in the third reading, it is not possible and we expect that the law will be definitively adopted at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik, Social Democratic Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we support the adoption of a law on State border control. We expect effective and European comparable control of the state border, in line with the European legal order, from the implementation of this law. The adoption of the law on State border control is also one of the obligations of the Schengen Agreement, by which we have committed ourselves to the adoption of that law, which will regulate the control of the state border. The adoption of this law is also a condition for the immediate and expected implementation of the external Schengen border and the abolition of internal borders allowing the free movement of goods and services, and therefore this legislative proposal has our specific support. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the specificities and also to the shortcomings of the legislative proposal, which can be addressed in the next legislative procedure. We welcome and fully agree with the Group of the Social Democratic Party on extending the control of the state border to the whole country or to the whole country, as provided for in the text of the second-reading legislative proposal in Article 1. We note the need to carry out border controls within the country with a clear objective, to prevent as many illegal migrations as possible and to prevent all kinds and forms of crime, and to ensure indirectly greater security for our citizens and citizens. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the content of Article 12 of the legislative proposal for a second reading, which arose from the already mentioned implementation of Mr Vukko's amendment. In our Group's view, the proposed solution is better, but is still contrary to efforts to remove bureaucratic obstacles and, as such, still poses an additional problem or another unnecessary consensus in the multitude of consensus on the adoption of the spatial plan of the Border Community, more precisely in the adoption of the spatial plan of the municipality, which plans interventions within the 50m border band. We believe that the method of construction and intervention in this belt must be regulated and covered in the mandatory starting points of the State plan, which are mandatory components of all the spatial plans of the municipalities. In this way, we would avoid obtaining consent, as reflected in the proposal. I would also like to draw attention to the provision of Articles 28 and 32, the proposed powers of the police in the exercise of border control, among which it is still maintained and, in our opinion, the insufficiently defined right to retain a person for the necessary time, as set out in the proposal. Such a detention measure has an urgent consequence of the deprivation of liberty, and we would therefore point out that all the necessary guarantees provided for in Article 19 of the Constitution, which defines the protection of personal freedom, must be provided. Notwithstanding these concerns, in the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we support the adoption of a law on State border control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please. Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The amended proposal for a law on State border control corrected what was actually wrong in the beginning. And despite all that, some things he didn't just get involved in these corrections. In order not to waste too much time, I will immediately turn to the 18th and 19th paragraphs that speak, the first on establishing border crossings for a specific circle of persons and the last on establishing temporary border crossings. I will give an example of how interior ministers in the Western European Union can set up certain airports, civil and sports airports, to pass a certain circle of persons, so that it is not necessary to enter the country at the main border crossings, but that this can be organised at smaller sports and tourist airports. The Slovenian national party has already sent a proposal to regulate such a system in the Republic of Slovenia. I'm not gonna talk about it. I am going to say that this is a significant financial asset that, in this way, is being made available to the country under such arrangements. Something similar has already been arranged by Croatia, Slovenia has not explicitly stated this in both Article 18 and Article 19, but I think that the matter can be regulated in accordance with both Articles. Perhaps it is a little more incomprehensible for my fellow Members and Members, but I think that Mr Minister and his fellow Members know what this is about and understand the point of my speech. Indeed, it is also because, in accordance with the sixth indent of Article 19, there is a certain general public interest to carry these matters out. Next, I must also address this idea to Article 26, which speaks of the obligation of the master of the vessel, where something is unclear to me, as well as to the Slovenian national party. In this case, either the vessel is also an aircraft or it is only a water vessel. Because later we have a ship's commander or a shipowner's representative. In other cases, we have a vessel commander. Here I think that the law should explain this distinction in some sub-laws and develop it, so that it is known why it applies. I judge, and I think, that it would make sense, given Article 26, the master of the vessel means both the commander of the aircraft and the captain of the ship, but not to restrict it. Article 26 just sums up the solutions of the Western European Union in this area, that is to say crossing the border with smaller tourist and sports aircraft crossing the state border outside the main routes and outside the main customs stations, that is to say Ljubljana, Portorož and Maribor in the case of air transport. In Article 32, which speaks of the detention of a person, we too consider that this urgently needed time to be questionable. It's been a long time for us for 48 hours. This is a very long time, but I think some other institutions and some other people will be discussing this. For a short time, perhaps Article 36, which deals with foreign security authorities, would make sense to define what the legislator or the bill-maker considers to be a short-gun dictatorship. Short-term weapons, by definition under the arms law, can be many things, after all, including hand bombs, which I am convinced that the Minister will not allow them to enter the Republic of Slovenia, even if they are the security organs of the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you. Ms Majda Zupan, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, allow me to give an opinion on the proposal for this Act. The government, as a proponent, has sent us a so-called technical law for second reading, so to speak, which provides for the organisation and manner in which the control of the state border is carried out, namely border protection and border control, the implementation of internal police measures and international cooperation. The State border should be monitored by both the police and customs until the Schengen Agreement is in force in the Republic of Slovenia. The dispute clause in Article 8 which speaks of police being able to enter the land and drive through the land, irrespective of ownership, has been amended in the sense that a provision has been made regarding the claim for compensation. It is also supplemented by a provision concerning the marking of the border line, the prohibition of activities at its side and the construction of facilities at the border line. With regard to border incidents, however, it provides that in cases where the police determine the conduct of foreign national authorities in the territory of Slovenia which is not permitted by international treaties or by our regulations, in fact, constitutes an invasion of the environment and of the border area, the police shall inform the competent Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this case, with more detailed instructions for the implementation of this provision, the Ministry of the Interior shall regulate the rules of procedure. The draft law also contains provisions on State border crossings and transit traffic and border crossings. A border crossing for designated persons may, by decision, be established by the Director of the Police Administration, in agreement with the Director of the Customs Office, for a maximum of three years. The Director of the Police Administration may also establish a temporary border crossing if used for exercises, in the case of natural disasters, sports events, traffic redirection and the like. The draft law also regulates border control, measures on international transport links and facilities that are important for cross-border transport and international cooperation. The law is certainly up to date, because the flow of our borders is very large. Although there are fewer illegal crossings every year, we know that crime does not know the borders, so in our Group of Members we will support all those provisions that will contribute to a more effective and European legal order comparable to the control of the state border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal of the law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the bill will be carried out on Friday. This concludes this agenda item. We're going to eight. Periods, it's a proposal for a real-lawyer. We'll take a short break. So we start at 3:30, like on schedule. Thank you. I thank the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u121	The proposal for a code was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I don't see any government representatives. I give the full floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups on the draft law. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. [[He's not here.]] Since government officials are here right now, I welcome them. I'm asking if they want a word? Short. Here you go. Five minutes. Mr. Secretary of State Jenull.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The government proposes to adopt a real law code at third reading. I should just like to inform you briefly that, after second reading, the Government, as a candidate, has included in the text of Law 49 of the amendments adopted and has made editorial corrections. In addition, the Government is adding a proposal of 6 amendments, with amendments which are necessary to take into account the comments of the secretariat or the current law and legal affairs services and do not have a substantive impact on the substance of the law. However, if these amendments were adopted as proposed, the government also announces three harmonisation amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The proposal for a Code is fully followed by a debate between Members and Members. Ms Sonja Areh Lavrič, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. He's quitting. Thank you. Mr. Trofenik is also giving up. Mr. Jelinčich. He's not in the hall. There is no need for a government debate. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a Code in its entirety and move on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 18.9.2002. So, the review of the amendments of 18.9.2002. We're starting with Article 171. I am putting to the debate Article 171 and the amendment of the Government. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 177 and the amendment of the government. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 201 and the amendment of the government. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 222 and the amendment of the government. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. 270th Article, Government Amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Article 271(1) Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Article 274 Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Article 276 Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendments tabled. The assembly will vote on individual amendments and on the proposal for a code will fully hold its afternoon session in the framework of the votes of the assembly. You know they start at 5:35, and I'm also breaking this agenda. We will continue at 16-10 minutes with a proposal for a law on subsidising student diet, the third is under consideration. So the suspension of the session is up to 16 and 10 minutes. I thank the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u124	We're moving to agenda nine, that's on Thirdly, a proposal for a law to subsidize student food. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Mark Diacia. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the draft law on supplementary explanations. Here you go, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! At its 10th meeting, on 22.11.2001, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed the proposal for a law on subsidising student diet at first reading. The second reading of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation was carried out by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 14 May 2002. In doing so, he adopted amendments to Article 1, Article 3, Article 6 and the amendment to the new A9 for health, work, family, social policy and disabled persons. Article 1 At the same time, he accepted the amendments of the Government to Article 4 and Article 6 and the amendment of the amendment of the Government to Article 4 proposed by the Group of Members with my first signature. In preparing the draft law for third reading, the proposed amendments were included in the text of the proposal. Some articles are therefore duly renumbered. The remaining articles were adopted in unchanged content. On the basis of the conclusion, the proposal for a law on subsidising student diet for third reading is prepared by the applicants, a group of Members with a first-signed Mark Diacja, which was adopted on 14 May 2002 by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the second reading of the law, so that the amendments adopted in the second reading are ready for third reading. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legal Service has examined that draft law and has proposed, in accordance with its third reading tasks, possible measures to eliminate internal inconsistencies in the legal text. Thus, the opinion of the Legal Service made comments of editorial nature, namely Articles 2 and 5, which in no way affect the content of the law and which are therefore taken into account by the competent service in the preparation of the original law. In addition, these articles are closed in the third reading. The Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, which, by its rules of procedure, may propose amendments, has tabled an amendment to Articles 3 and 9 following the comments of the legislative legal service. With regard to Article 8, in particular, I stress that the beneficiaries of five additional subsidised meals are undoubtedly parents, beneficiaries, and also the purpose of the text, and therefore we consider that there is no need to comment on the legal services. I propose that you accept the amendments tabled by the Group of Members as well as the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I give the full floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups on the draft law. Ms. Danica Simšič, United List, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Madam Secretary of State and other guests! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we support the legal arrangements for subsidisation of student nutrition. In fact, we understand the law as a guardian or guarantor of the long-term regulation of this issue, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been regulating for several years through a regulation and the definition of money in the annual budget. In fact, the law means only legal confirmation of the ten-year good practice. The law today, after a good year and a half when it was put into the parliamentary procedure, and has been tabled by 13 Members from various parliamentary groups, we accept it with barely any mention of valuable corrections. And if I may say so, this time the number 13 does not bring disaster, but, in fact, quite the contrary, it brings the statutory obligation of the State to provide subsidies from the money of the two-pillars around 3.5 million meals per year, which this year already amounts to 2 billion dollars from the state budget. In the UK Group, we also believe that the solution defined by law by the amount of the subsidy is a good one. The law provides in its Article 4 that the amount of the grant for a student meal from the budget shall be at least 75% of the amount of the regress for the food of workers during the work established by the collective agreement on non-economics. Such a solution, in our view, ensures both the stability of long-term subsidisation and the establishment or better-spoken continuation of social partnership between the government and students, indirectly also with workers in relation to the collective agreement. However, the word "at least" is needed by 75% of students to negotiate and coordinate with the government in the event of a disproportionate real increase in the prices of guest services. Such a solution therefore means that the subsidy will amount to at least 75% of the costs, but it may, as it is said, also more in the event of a justified need. And if we translate this into tolars - from 1 July this year, the regress for the food of workers is 690,00 tolars per day, which means that the country provides 520,00 tolars for each meal to the students of the budget, that is, at least 75% per day. In the Joint Group of Social Democrats, we also agree with the decision that the law allows student food to be subsidised not only every working day for students, but also on Saturdays and Sundays, if the study programme so requires. We also support the solution that students-parents have the right to an additional five vouchers for their children. And let me finish. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will fully support the proposal for a law on subsidising student nutrition together with the proposed amendments, which are in fact of a technical nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak of the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Social Democratic Party, we also support the proposal for a bill to subsidise student diet, since, last but not least, it is more than half or, if I say so correctly, seven signatories or candidates from our parliamentary group. The fundamental reason why we actually support and why we have been pleased to go to this co-proposal is that so far there has been a lack of adequate legal basis and that funding for student nutrition subsidies has been allocated on the basis of the annual budget law and, of course, substantial resources. This is the year 2000 for a billion five hundred and it is a significant increase and growth of these funds all year round so that it is already around 2 billion in this year. The law is now a new, substantially different legal basis and, of course, also the reliability and security of maintaining this important aid institute for students. This is not a social measure, as the basic aim is to provide students with adequate nutrition as part of ensuring comprehensive conditions for successful studies. A rather new concept is also the comparison between student nutrition and the diet of workers. Finally, the amount of the subsidy, given the cost of food for workers under the collective agreement on non-economics, is also the binding of this food on working days. We think it's a good connection. However, I would also like to stress the important point covered by Article 3, second paragraph, that the Minister responsible for work should issue a directive within 30 days of the entry into force of the law setting out a more detailed method of implementing food subsidies, the way in which subsidies are charged and paid and the record-keeping and reporting, and the supervision of the work of the student food grantor and the providers. I think it's an extremely important document. In the course of this debate, the representative of the government or the ministry will certainly have a word as well. Therefore, at this point, I would like to explain the stage in which this instruction is being prepared, whether it also covers, after my assessment of the key measures, that the subsidised diet of these concessionaires who will receive this concession will not be infuriated by this, which will mean that the nutrition for the vouchers will significantly deviate from the diet for normal payers. I am also interested and, above all, I have some concerns about the supervision of the implementation of student diet during summer holidays. Because the basis is that student diet is intended for students. I would be very disappointed if it were to come in the future, I know that there are some practices already in this area, that there are abuses of this institution, that student vouchers or student diets are used, that is now via line codes, that people who do not have student status are fed, or that subsidies are not justified. It also seems important to me that we cover this student diet even on the days when the study programmes are under way, and these are not working days. In the Social Democratic Party, the solutions proposed by the Youth Party in the framework of the third reading amendments will be supported because they go within the meaning of the text and the comments made by the Law Service. However, I hope that the instructions issued by the Minister will go in the direction of transparency, the fairness of this measure and that they will prevent abuses that have already taken place in the past. I hope that this law and these instructions will somehow prevent them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. [[He's not here.]] The following is Mr Igor Štemberger, a client of young people. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. In the Young Slovenia Party, we support the legal arrangements for subsidisation of student diets, because the subsidisation of student diet in recent years has proved to be extremely necessary and beneficial for students, since in addition to the social component it provides them with a healthier diet than they could otherwise afford. It should be borne in mind that the cost of study from year to year is increasing; the capacity of student homes is much too small; the number of scholarships has decreased dramatically. As a result, financial criteria are those requiring young people whether they can choose to study or not. We see the justification of the law mainly in the fact that so far this area has been governed by a regulation on student nutrition subsidies for nine years. At that time, it has changed several times, almost every year, which, of course, meant that the amount of resources allocated by the State to subsidise food was questioned every year. In practice, the student diet subsidy scheme has proved to be effective and necessary. Therefore, in the opinion of the Party of Young Slovenia, the instrument of raising the standard of study in the form of subsidisation of student diet deserves a permanent legal formal system regime. This is certainly the law that we have before us today at our third reading. By raising the regulation of this area from the level of the Minister's regulation to the legal level, we get the legal basis for drawing the necessary resources from the State budget, without the annual amendment of the law on the implementation of the budget. In short, in the Young Slovenia Party, we will be happy to support the law on subsidising student nutrition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It would make more sense to resolve the contents of this proposal in a more comprehensive law, such as the law on insurance and employment, in a more comprehensive way, and we supported the content and purpose of the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I can say that the law, mainly through the first and second treatment of the Namatic Working Body, has received the necessary content with the constructive cooperation of the Government, in this case Mrs State Secretary. For example, it would also be in the future or for any other proposal for a law not proposed by the Government, so that government representatives might be able to participate as well in the consideration of the law as it did in this case. That is why, after all, the law is still in the third reading today and as such a pleasant and necessary content for those who expect it. We will, of course, support the law, including the amendments, which somehow follow the arguments of the legislative service in the third reading, if nothing else, because we have thus obtained an independent and stable source of funding for student nutrition, independent of the current actors of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The draft law is fully under discussion by Members and Members. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, the Social Democratic Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Since I am among the signatories to the bill, of course I support the solutions in this law, because I believe that the law that binds the government in the long term to the implementation of this important instrument is necessary to subsidise student nutrition. This is particularly urgent and necessary because there is a legitimate fear in the public that the government, in the midst of public finances problems, will serve restrictions on the interests of the student population. Here, by a colleague who carried a source for this area of the customer, it was found that a guard was needed. I deeply agree, and it is certain that the knowledge in her client is greater, what and what are the thinking, where to commit budget money. One of the dangers is, as I mentioned earlier, that we would do it on the shoulders of the student population. Of course, this would be extremely unfair because the young generation of students are not to blame for the irregularities of government policy and the untransparent spending of budgetary money, as the Court of Auditors in many ministries has pointed out. However, the consequences of the state treasury are, of course, and could have happened if the government did not impose that this is one of the priority concerns of the state budget in order for something similar to this to happen. It is also extremely important to state that we will have to pay particular attention to how these guidelines will be implemented, as well as the distribution of concessions by concessionaires for student food subsidy providers. It has already been mentioned here that there has already been an irregularity, an abuse. Of course, this is an area where relatively high funds are spinning, and it is also possible for someone to get itchy to use untransparent decisions on a public invitation to tender. Here I would also like to say that, in the context of what the law provides for in Article 3, how is it ensured that these permits are shared, that I have detected among the student population, that the distribution of this will in some way be poorly organised, that students take a lot of time, which is otherwise intended for study or also for leisure or leisure. Today, where all these institutions are also richly equipped with modern techniques, it is needed in fact the most transparent way to enable the most transparent and rapid distribution of these licences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrich has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Brenčič, as an individual? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. We do not oppose the content of this law in the parliamentary group, but also in ourselves, because this content is correct, right, adequate. However, on the basis of transparency of legislation, transparency, student rights, we ask ourselves whether this is the right way to regulate. We should regulate everything about education, nutrition, transport of students, in one marriage. Why is that? Because then there are legal gaps, overlaps. This is a common practice in our legislation. Of course, that is not the way we support it. Of course, the simplest thing is to write a short law in 5 articles, a partial matter to arrange and show citizens that a political option is very hot for such a solution. In view of all the perceptions that take place within the student organisation, there is no guarantee that abuses will not occur, especially when certain obligations are imposed on such organisations, which fall within the scope of the public administration. State administration has to exercise control. The law states that the Ministry exercises control, distribution, control, and I don't know what else to do, but it can only decide whether or not it will put these things into the organization. So this is what is questionable for us to shift the distribution of social transfers to the one who pretends to be himself or his representatives. That this involvement occurs elsewhere, we have to see it in the law, where the student organisation also appears in the invitations. So distribution, control, calls This is one weird practice in our country. [[...]] It's not just here, I find that in other laws. Now I don't know if this is a practice because we believe that the Slovenian people are too small, too numerous to be able to distribute these functions because they are incompatible. Then we wonder why people approve of their own rights. I have this sad experience in another charity, and that's exactly what I'm stressing is that it can't happen. With special contracts, I do not know what the term of special contracts would be, of course, enough contracts, the computer will obviously provide control, it is understood from these articles, because it is computerised and expensive citizens, expensive students, but it will run very well. You know, the computer won't provide control, the human factor is the one and the correct delimitation of control and performance functions. Another reason why this matter should be fully regulated and perhaps included, I don't know, in a whole other law. These are the key points. However, I do not object to the content aspect. Maybe even a fixed amount. Now 70% depends on regulating the diet of workers or workers. I think it's an unsafe parameter. If we provide certain stable funding, we should also provide a more stable parameter. That's just a comment. This is what the legislator or the billmaker decided, and that is his will. However, I assure you, at the time of implementation, you will have problems as an executive part of the Authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the word - he is not there, then Mr Pavel Rupar - is not there either. We have thus exhausted the list of reported debates and debaters. I'm asking Madam Secretary of State if she wants a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you. Allow me to answer in the introductory part some of the questions that have now arisen in the debates of individual Members or groups of Members. The subsidised student diet under the current regime was not the subject of a legal regulation, what has already been mentioned several times before, but we have regulated every year through a specific law on the implementation of the budget. To date, the current regulation has set out a range of beneficiaries, including regular and extraordinary students and graduates from the postgraduate study including children who have fallen into the 1991 war who have the status of a student, apprentice or student. The amount of subsidies has also so far been 75 % of the amount of the regression for food during the work of non-economic workers, following the regulation in force. However, the number of subsidised meals was linked, as with the amount of the subsidy, to the food of the employees, so that the students are entitled to one subsidised meal for each working day. The Regulation also provided for student food subsidies to be implemented through a computer-supported identification card system and contained other provisions. However, this identification card system is not currently in place, but is an established system of detection through a line code. The subsidisation of student diet, which dates back to 1992, is carried out at study centres throughout Slovenia. In 2002, a subsidised diet is implemented in Ljubljana, Maribor, Piranu, Koper, Nova Gorica, Radovljica, Brežica, Kranju, Celju, Velenju, Murski Soboti and Slovenj Gradc. However, the selection of student food providers is based on a public invitation to tender every two years [[Previously on AMC's The Walking Dead...]] prepare and publish the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in cooperation with the student organisation of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the subsidisation of student diet under the current regime does not constitute State aid to students for social reasons, since in this case the range of beneficiaries would be limited by material censorship. These are real reasons, that is, to enable students to eat properly as part of providing comprehensive conditions for successful studies. The right to a subsidised diet is linked both to the status of the beneficiary and to the time during which the study obligations are implemented. I would like to stress this because this is not a social transfer for the purpose, as previously defined. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considered that it was also appropriate to regulate food subsidies in a normative manner and therefore gave a positive opinion on this law. During the course of the legislation, the government has also proposed several amendments and comments to further improve or actively participate in the drafting of the law and, in particular, to ensure, in the implementation sense, the arrangements that will ensure the most efficient and transparent distribution of the vouchers. Well, and given that it has already been mentioned that student nutrition subsidies have been properly regulated since 1992 in the budget itself, it should be noted that the volume of funds, which has already been mentioned elsewhere, about 2 billion tolars and about 3 million vouchers sold or issued and established vouchers, however, means that this is a system that is in place and which actually provides students with some additional stimulation can also be done in the study. In particular, I would like to point out that, despite the fact that we did not have a specific law, that in this year, when a larger number of vouchers have emerged in some periods, the government has further increased this amount of resources through the budget rebalancing and thus, without any further reasoning or coordination, has ensured the extent of the resources that have provided the rights already derived from the law on the implementation of the budget. Well, it's about control. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour in 2001 has prepared a new guide for the implementation of student diet. That is, last year we introduced a system whereby we pay student food providers only the actual cash vouchers for the past month. And that's what we're talking about, a built-in fuse or a system solution, through which, of course, we ensure that these vouchers are actually used.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a law in its entirety, and we are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be held on the basis of a review of the amendments of 18 September 2002. It's two amendments, that's to three and nine. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SMS Group. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. I would only mention that both amendments are editorial in nature and are based on the opinion of the legislative - legal service.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 3. We're moving on to Section 9. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendments tabled. The assembly will vote on both amendments and on the proposal for a law in full in the afternoon follow-up of the meeting in the framework of the votes of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. With this, today's agenda, agenda, except for voting, is exhausted. As we know, we continue to vote at 17.35. Until then, of course, the session has been suspended. Thank you. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u143	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's 5:35. We will move to a vote at 5.36 p.m., to a vote on the proposals for decisions today. I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. Let me first explain that before the decisions concerning today's debates, we will vote on the proposal for a decision by colleague Bajuk, which he proposed at yesterday's meeting of the assembly on questions of Members and Members. Colleagues and colleagues, we are therefore going to vote on the proposals for decisions yesterday and today. We will first vote on the proposal for a decision by the Member, Comrade Dr Andre Bajuk, which he proposed at yesterday's meeting of the assembly on questions of Members and Members. This is a decision on the proposal for the following decision: "At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Dr. Janez Drnovšek to the question by Dr. Andrej Bajuk on the property transformation of former social enterprises, with an emphasis on the role of authorised investment companies." So this is a proposal for a decision that I will now put into decision. You want an explanation of the voice? Like a parliamentary group or you personally? [[Personally.]] So, two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I would like to explain my voice as follows. The question of reshaping the ownership of the so-called social property was fatal for Slovenia, and it is still fatal. How this will finally be resolved has a great impact on what we all know is happening, and these are growing large differences in our society, whose true Slovenia has not been used to. The things that are happening in this area are of crucial importance, and I think that it must come to such a debate that we do not have to have, the national assembly in this composition, in this mandate, the same thing that happened in the previous one. That is to say that this issue has been dealt with by our colleagues in the previous mandate, precisely to prevent it, and they have achieved that the process of transforming the pids into a share society has been frozen. Then they passed another law, which had no connection to the issue; and there was a provision that allowed. However, there was no public debate on this, just because it was done quickly without everyone advocating a debate like that in a democratic society, and certainly in some parliament, it must come. The questions I have raised to Mr President of the Government have not received definitive answers, and I think it is crucial that this national assembly, before going forward, discuss this question, and it will certainly happen if not at the next meeting, and then in November that we have a broader discussion of what has happened and where we are going. That is why I will vote in favour. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u145	I guess I don't have to repeat the content of the decision; we're going to vote on it now. I'm calling off the vote. Comrade Jerovšek, you too need to help to make the meeting easier by raising your hand in time. Explanation, on behalf of the parliamentary group or you personally?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u146	Personally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u147	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I also agree with the fact that the reply of the Prime Minister to such an important question concerning the thousands of Slovenian citizens, 10,000 Slovenian citizens, was not appropriate and not satisfactory. In fact, this silent change of pids in the management company for wild privatisation, the second wave of wild privatisation, as my colleague Bajuk correctly stated. And, of course, all of this happens with the quiet agreement of the government and the financial oligarchy, which is all-inclusive. I am particularly surprised that the Prime Minister, at the moment when he is also a future candidate for the President of the State, did not go into a meeting with his citizens with a transparent, clear, firm word that he would reject these processes, which are against the interests of a large part of the Slovenian population. I do not understand that we are, in fact, such a non-transparent society, that he did not use it to perform in order to ensure that citizens will not be privatised by this savage privatisation in order to try to eliminate the effects of this savage privatisation. The answer was, in any case, a medal. He talked about imperfect models, and citizens want at least a solid model. And I wonder what citizens can expect from the continuation of such a policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u149	There's too much unrest in the hall. Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, behind you, Comrade Pucka. On behalf of the Member or you personally? On behalf of the Parliamentary, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ownership of social property [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u151	Peace in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u152	In the Republic of Slovenia, we can call it the theft of the millenniums. [[...]] Or at least the theft of centuries. For what people in 50 years, from 1945 to 1990 and a little longer, brought together, Slovenians and Slovenes, Slovenian citizens, they managed to steal and put certain oligarchies in their pockets.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u153	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u154	Private pockets are supposed to be made of several billion German brands of valuable property. That's a terrible sum. And because of this theft of the millennium, we have so many unemployed people today, so we have social problems that are growing, and there are more and more, so we have education to pay for, so we have health care to pay and nothing more that people have created for a better life, including for them. Political parties and government managed to squeeze in as well as people in retirement and hang stones around their necks [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u155	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u156	Under water. [[...]] The savage privatisation allowed by the current government, with Mr Drnovsk at the helm, is a terrible thing and the only thing it can reveal to some extent is a public debate. A public debate in which all the facts must be given and the answers to all the questions must be answered. It is true that Mr Drnovšek and his ruling surroundings will be confused with false information, with excuses, with nothing else, but the fact is that Slovenian people and Slovenian citizens have the right at least to know where their money went, which they have been putting for at least 45 and 50 years for the good of the homeland on its altar, so that some modern emperors, emperors and sultans have taken it all into their pockets. That is why we, too, absolutely support the public debate on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I now give my word to my colleague Cyril Puck, and I will put my word behind him to my colleague Potræ, but I ask my colleagues and colleagues for peace in the Chamber not to disturb the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not support this proposal for a number of reasons, for the first time since the law on investment funds and management companies is envisaged at the next meeting, and for this reason we do not see any reason to open up a specific point in the debate or the government's response to the questions raised by the New Slovenia Group. Especially since all the questions addressed to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy by respected colleague Bajuk have been addressed to the government in a timely manner and we expect that the Government will have the opportunity to provide all the answers that are not yet available under the point I spoke about earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. My colleague Potts, on his own behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u160	On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u161	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u162	The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will not support Mr Bayuk's proposal. We are convinced that this proposal is today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u163	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u164	cannot achieve anything other than accusing each other and also failing to tell what has happened in the last ten years in this area. [[...]] Mr Bajuk, we should know that in these years we have adopted and amended at least four times the law and that the Slovenian Democrats, Mr Rajc at the time led them on the Privatisation Committee, have always been that the privatisation of certificates is not regulated in a way that ensures that the state provides all investors with the necessary funds and that the necessary control of the operations of authorised investment companies is exercised. We've made decisions a few times. It has always been found that we are really late, that it is not true that we really bring people around, but it has always been voted that way. In short, to talk about how we are going to solve this thing today and to talk about the possible fault of the current government - it is the governments and also this national assembly, in which Christian Democrats and the Slovenian People's Party were also responsible. So now this would only mean in front of citizens and citizens directly before the elections to speak for the electorate. When it was time and when things could be regulated, ladies and gentlemen, we didn't want to settle them. If necessary, let us find another way and properly say the efforts of all parties to properly own certificates in the last ten years to see concrete votes, not in this way now, to form a tribunal for mutual accusations and promises immediately before the elections. To save - unfortunately there was much to be done a year ago, two, five, ten, nothing more today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Janez Jansa. On behalf of the Member of Parliament or yourself, Comrade Janš? Will you speak for yourself or on behalf of the Group of Members? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u166	On behalf of the Group of Members. First of all, according to this logic, which we have now heard from Mr Potrč, the court should also end because there are also accusations against each other. Otherwise, our Group of Members will support this proposal. In particular, because of the arguments we have already heard, and also because of the response that the Prime Minister avoided yesterday. It was quite shocking for me that he said he would not comment, I think the worst statement in 2002 made by Mr Borak, a senior government official, who is the new head of the securities market agency who should oversee these things. And he said that he would not seek any sinful goats and that the battle against the abuse of insidership was already lost. Therefore, of course, he will not lead, even though he gets paid for it. And, of course, he also said: “We live in a period of consolidation of ownership, but this cannot take place without theft.” The man who should oversee these things, fight the theft, the high government official, just named by this government, tells everyone in advance who will steal, that it is normal and that he will not persecute them. And yesterday, the Prime Minister said he wouldn't comment. We can understand this as if I agree with this - as if the government supports it, advocates and that this official, because of these statements which also reflect in Brussels - I have just been asked today for an opinion on this - that nothing will happen, that this signal will go through Slovenia and that it will happen in advance what Mr Potrč said earlier that it would be the subject of a back-to-back interview. We've discussed this a lot. There's probably something else that needs to be done. The competent authorities aren't at this time, but I'm worried about what's still going to happen and what can be prevented. Certainly, however, it will not be prevented by government officials who are in charge of doing things fair and fair and say that this is not possible and that they will no longer worry about it. If you'd like, I'll quote Mr. Borak again. Interestingly, the following day he was asked again, he confirmed once again that everyone had heard him, and the Prime Minister simply did not want to comment. If there is no debate here, it will probably be in another Parliament, unfortunately, because it is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Comrade Cukjat, behind you colleague Pukšič [[two minutes both]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Let me explain my voice, i.e. I was not the only one who was dissatisfied with the Prime Minister's response, and all those citizens who have accompanied the questions that have accompanied the answer in one way or another. This is an extremely sensitive and important issue, perhaps not for some who are sitting or sitting here, but above all this is an important issue for those citizens who are increasingly falling below the poverty line. Since this is such an important question, the National Assembly should discuss this and ask for a clear answer. I think that the government has enough time to really reopen the problem to produce the right answers, but the requirement is only directed at the government or the Prime Minister explaining its position, its vision of the problem, to discover or say whether the government registers this problem and how it intends to solve it. If, of course, the majority of Members of the Government are afraid of this debate, they will clearly vote against it. But I hope there's not enough of these.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u169	I ask for needed peace in the hall because it is obvious that some speakers are disturbed and have the right to demand peace in the hall. Please, buddy Pukšič, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will explain my vote, and I will support the proposal for a debate. Such a debate in the National Assembly should certainly have taken place long ago. If not before, at least three years ago, when I asked the Ministry of Economy or then the government, specifically when workers were selling, they had to sell Swan's certificates, Delta Ptuj for 15 to 20%. Such a way of privatisation took place, buying certificates in the grey market, just at the time Moms needed funds to buy school bags and notebooks, at pay, of course, 30, 35 thousand tolars. This was not discussed in this National Assembly. Of course, some have allowed this debate not to occur and this is unfair to these people. Yesterday I got a call on the phone, called about what was going on, and of course they warned me. About 200 workers, ladies and gentlemen, are on the market today, without jobs, without Delta Ptuj, is gone. This should be discussed in the previous mandate when the Commission on Damage to Social Property dealt with infringements of social property and adopted twelve decisions, and liberal democracy, the combined lists prevented debate in Parliament. That is why it is high time, I agree with Mr Imp that it is already late, that it is too late, but it is high time to discuss this. That is why, of course, I will support such a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. Comrade Petty Officer, behind you Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u172	The debate on this issue is necessary and useful because the citizens have not received an answer, the citizens, a few hundred thousand, have not received an answer as to what has happened to their certificates, which they received at home, with Mr Drnovska's attention. I should explain, and I need to explain what happened to their assets. By the time they got it, it was about ten of their wages, and now they don't get half. I think it's worth it. If he failed to explain yesterday where this was going, he will decide and explain in this debate. This is what citizens obviously and rightly expect. Why is that necessary? Because these actions are not caused by transparent market conditions but by deliberate action or abandonment of acts that should be done. Of course, there is no need to debate liberal thoughts or to debate them because some of the Consolidated List already know in advance that we will be speaking the facts. But some have very far - reaching insights that we will be speaking the truth. I think we need to tell the real truth. Traces will appear in the snow and traces of these acts will appear, and citizens have already identified them. It is precisely for these reasons that I agree with the proposal and I will support the proposal made by my fellow Member, Mr Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Comrade Companion. On your behalf or on behalf of the Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u174	I'll speak for myself. Colleagues and colleagues, I wonder how it can be seized if the National Assembly supports Dr. Bayuk's proposal. I've been alone in the last year, two very, very busy with this problem. I certainly do not claim that there has been many irregularities in the field of the functioning of the pids. If it has happened, then I would suggest to my colleagues and colleagues that, in accordance with the legislation in force, they propose a parliamentary commission of inquiry to identify abuses or anything. But the fact is that on the basis of the facts that we adopted the first law in 1994, we had the 97th novel, the 98th novel, and now the last novel, this year and this last novel is a very extensive text, and it solves some issues in a way, even in terms of a discussion by colleague Bajuk about a month and a half ago. I assess that this debate in terms of the legislator would be correct. So to open the questions that are related to the marriage that is ahead of us. I'm afraid of one more thing. I am afraid that our discussions are problematic to this important branch of the financial industry, which is called mutual funds and companies for management or investment companies. In normal countries, this is a very important segment of the capital market. Members and Members of Parliament must act in a way that people believe and trust in this. To trust their owners and their administrators. If anything was wrong, the law enforcement authorities should step into action and react to the agency that was discussed earlier. That is why I will not support the proposed decision myself, but I will be a very active debater on the law that awaits us next month and all the questions that are raised here under this law will come to fruition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u175	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Please, my friend Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while. Otherwise, our representative, on behalf of the Group of Members, has already said how he will vote, but only to add something small to it. In fact, I don't know if you've been following these days, that the unions have finally once warned about this - but of course we are a social Democratic party and we need to support this - that the wealth in Slovenia is unfairly divided. This is an important decision of an important union in this country. So they found that the wealth in Slovenia is not fairly divided. In fact, small shareholders or certificate owners were not protected. And this power, which has been in the hands of liberal democracy for more than 10 years, has not made sure that it protects these small owners and that their assets do not go to waste. That is why we have today so many differences and so many social differences and the collapses that have taken place and will take place in the future. These are important things. They're not irrelevant. Once the unions and all the other ignorant people in this country have found that they were actually cheated and that it could be completely different than it is, then things will of course be different. I am firmly convinced that you do not expect this to happen because of the unjustly distributed wealth in the country something like what happened in 1941 when there was a revolution where, of course, neglected crowds demanded a new redistribution of wealth in the country. If you think about it, maybe you'll wait for it. I don't want to. In short, I think that this debate is extremely necessary, which is why I also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Anybody else want some? [[He does.]] Please, buddy Rupar, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Of course, I will also support the proposal because it is, therefore, what all those who are for the hearing to begin have said. It is very low and shameful that you are so afraid of this debate. However, you already know clearly in advance that it will not be, but the absence of the Prime Minister and everyone else, where the domain was still hidden under the carpet and holding what is of interest to most people who are waiting, is still hopeful, and they are still far from being robbed. I knew you wouldn't support this debate, even because those of you who were involved in these enormous thievings promised you financial support for this year's elections. It was completely clear to me, and exactly, sir, you have the account saved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u179	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Otherwise, we'll go to the vote. My friend Anderlich. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u180	Of course, I would be naive to expect a different debate on this proposal for a decision. It is simply that I have to accept the idea that the National Assembly is just to discuss, to discuss, who will be more demagogically explaining what is right and what is wrong, where the mistakes have been, who has participated and, above all, pointed with the finger elsewhere, but not where he has participated and what things have been happening in the country for the past 10, 12 years. Mr Podobnik has already mentioned some stages in the adoption of legislation in this National Assembly and has tried to deal with this issue in the most normal way. The National Assembly is in favour of this, and I am firmly convinced that it is calling on it to take decisions to take decisions that will benefit citizens and citizens, and therefore has a law on the agenda which will also discuss issues that Mr Bayuk has decided to discuss at the October meeting. All the questions I received from the magnetograms of yesterday's session or this meeting yesterday and today are related to the law that will be discussed next week on the Finance Committee and in October of the meeting of the National Assembly. And I am in favour of really facing the problem in the National Assembly and of making decisions that will benefit citizens and citizens, not just accusing each other, because here we will be very brief on the arguments when it is necessary to determine who participated in and who opposed them or who attracted them. And if we go to the beginning of privatisation from Demos' government to Drnovska's last government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u181	Anyone else want a word to explain their voice? I guess not. This will move us to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 72 in attendance, 28 in, 43 in. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on the exercise of healthcare professions in the Republic of Slovenia for citizens of other Member States of the European Union, which we are considering under urgent procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on the exercise of health professions in the Republic of Slovenia for nationals of other Member States of the European Union is not suitable for further consideration by emergency procedure." We're voting. 75 present, 32 for, 42 versus. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Please, colleague Brenčič, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr President, I expect that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 134, you will immediately assign a bill to the home working body, namely the Committee on Health, Work, Family and so on, and that we are in time if we are to prepare this law for a plenary decision on Thursday, I call for an extraordinary meeting of the committee tomorrow morning at 8 a.m. I ask the members and members of the committee that we are right to begin our work immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u183	So the law will be assigned to the committee. This will meet tomorrow and prepare substantively to deal with this item for Thursday afternoon. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of first-reading education and education is appropriate for further consideration." We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote, peace in the hall. 77 in attendance, 71 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this item, item 4, of the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia at first reading is appropriate for further consideration." We're voting. Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. 77 present, all in favor, none against. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. 6th and 7th points. As no amendments have been tabled in relation to these points, the assembly on these two items in the second reading will not vote. The Commission shall be We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda – the third consideration of the Proposal for a Real Law Code. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We vote on the amendment to Article 171. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment to Article 73, Article 171, Article 73, Article 58, paragraph 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Peace in the hall, so that we can all be gathered together and make our decisions without problems. Every time I say we're going to vote on something, I'm going to wait a few seconds to see if anyone would like to explain their vote. We vote on the amendment to Article 177. Let's vote. The amendment was accepted. Of the 76 attended there were 57 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 201. We're voting. Peace in the hall! 74 present, 56 for, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 201 has been adopted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 222. We're voting. We are in the vote on the amendment to Article 222. 73 present, 57 for, none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted this amendment. We will decide on the amendment to Article 270. We're voting. Peace in the hall! We vote on the amendment to Article 270. The amendment was adopted by 56 votes to 75. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 271. Let's vote! We are in the middle of the vote on the amendment to Article 271. The amendment was accepted. 57 for 73, none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] We will decide on the amendment to Article 274. We're voting. We decide on the amendment to Article 274. 73 present, 54 for, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. Finally, we will decide on the amendment to Article 276. We're voting. 70 present, 54 for, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. The government wants a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We note that, due to the amendments adopted, it is necessary to adopt the harmonisation amendment to the three Articles 33, 274 and 277, and I ask that you, as Presidents under Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure, set a deadline for the submission of the harmonisation amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-24-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u185	Okay. The Government therefore recalls the need to prepare the harmonisation amendments. I'm breaking this agenda. The assembly will finish this item on Friday. Please let the government prepare the amendments, please have them in your house on Thursday, so there will be plenty of time to think about them. So I'm breaking up this agenda item. We'll finish it on Friday. We are at the 9th point, we continue with the 9th point interrupted, this is the third reading of the bill on student food subsidies. We will move on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First, we will move on to the amendment to Article 3. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment to Article 3 of the bill on subsidising student diet. 72 in attendance, 70 in, no in. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] The amendment to Article 3 has been adopted. We will decide on the amendment to Article 9. We're voting. The amendment to Article 9 has been adopted. 72 in attendance, 70 in, no in. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] This concludes the vote on the amendments. The competent service and the government have not warned that due to the amendments adopted, the law is not harmonised, so we can move on to a full decision on the bill. We're voting. Peace in the hall, we are in the middle of a full vote on the law. 74 in attendance, 73 in, no in. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 18th session of the National Assembly and reminding you that tomorrow the National Assembly will meet with the beginning at 10 a.m. Until then, goodbye and good night.
