ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Please, if everyone takes their place, if the great Hall of the National Assembly is calmed down. We will begin our 24th extraordinary session. I called on her on the basis of Rule 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that, due to other obligations, some colleagues cannot participate in today's debate. These are colleagues of Cimperman, Čeligoj, Jakič, colleague Jakič is here, colleague Janš and colleague Dušan Vukko between 13 and 16 hours. Representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, mag. Anton Rop, whom I warmly welcome, and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Everything, including him and you, I welcome you once again. First, we will move on to the establishment of the agenda for the 24th extraordinary session. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to it on 29 November of this year. By letter of 10.12. this year, you received the decision of the College of President of the National Assembly on the enlargement of the agenda. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of individual agenda items within the time limit. We can therefore move on to a decision on the proposals for enlargement. As you were informed, the College of the President of the National Assembly proposed that the 24th Extraordinary Meeting agenda should be extended, for the first time, by addressing the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia and by proposing a decision on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal of the College of the President of the National Assembly to extend the agenda by addressing the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. I will put this proposal to the vote. Please, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, Comrade Jerovšek. Please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u2	I'm sorry, I'm way ahead of myself, but I have an urgent duty and an urgent matter to consider. On the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, which gives the Group of Members or the Chairman the right to propose the postponement of a point to the next meeting, I will present the proposal of the Group of Members. In particular, in the SDS Group of Members, we propose that the 2003 and 2004 budget debate be held at one of the following meetings. I must state in explanation that there has been a conscious push by the State and Parliament into a harmful and demeaning situation where the State or Parliament should accept such important documents as budget documents, in a situation where there is an acute government crisis in the country, which has been caused consciously at this time and not before the budget has been adopted by the government in a derogation, which has not yet happened in Europe; when it is to adopt a budget without a financial minister without a Prime Minister. That this is one particular situation, the resignation government, at the last meeting of the College, Mr Bandelj, the Secretary-General, who objected to parliamentary issues that always concern the practice of ministers, said that parliamentary issues are one of the forms of enforcement of the government's responsibilities. Is the budget not the most significant form of the government's exercise of responsibility? And this is the most responsible task we should be carrying out in a situation where we do not have a government to whom we have a government in resignation. This is a disgrace to this country. I must stress that the government coalition, and above all the Liberal Democracy, has brought the country into this unappreciative disgraceful situation. They were aware that in a case such as the Prime Minister, Mr Drnovšek, should step down in time as promised and planned. However, due to the advantages of its own interests, the advantages of the party over the advantages of the State and the strengths and position in its own party, which was not prepared to support Mr Ropa as a mandate holder at the time of September, he postponed his resignation. We are now in the situation that the state of currency is in a number of areas. Thus, it cannot decide on a Danish proposal that is favourable to Slovenia. Because through the Danish proposal on a seven-year moratorium on real estate, the government has received an earring and a non-trust card and does not want to admit it to the Slovenian public. And the ministers are switching, the government of the coin; the last time we experienced that at a closed meeting, the ministers were literally weeping. Such a situation and practice shall not be permitted. This is not in line with European criteria, which is why Slovenia would again have problems ahead of European space. And, Mr President of the National Assembly, I think you have the right to defend the dignity of this National Assembly, this Parliament, in order to prevent such practice. Otherwise, I demand a vote on this matter. The National Assembly, the Parliament of one country must be accountable to its people and cannot accept that a government will, by way of derogation, squeeze into the adoption of the budget for two years, with items that the future government will not support and will not accept, and will have an excuse that they are already spending, that the government is not responsible for anything in the resignation. We believe that they do not want to take responsibility for the financial situation in a country that is desperate but not in this way. We are Members of the Slovenian people here and we cannot accept this humiliating practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Let me tell you how I intend to deal with your proposal. First of all, I must inform you that I have not received your proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda within the time limit. However, you are proposing, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, that, as a group of Members, the matter which would be placed on the agenda of this meeting should be moved to one of the following meetings. Therefore, it is not possible to act differently than to adopt today's agenda and to put your proposal to the vote after we have voted on the agenda. The National Assembly will also decide on this matter when we are on the agenda. Okay? Would anyone like a word on the proposal to consider and decide on the proposal of the College of the National Assembly to extend the agenda by considering the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for Prime Minister? Nobody. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda with this proposal. We're voting. May I have your attention in the hall, please? May I have your attention in the hall, please? We're in the middle of a vote. 76 in attendance, 56 in and 8 in. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] This proposal is adopted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal by the College of the President of the National Assembly to extend the agenda by addressing the proposal for a decree on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network. Members of the parliamentary groups would like a word? No, no, no. Then we will move on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're making a decision. May I have your attention in the hall, please? All others who are not Members and Members of Parliament, I would ask that they do not interfere with the work of the National Assembly. 72 present, 71 for and no one against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have adopted a proposal to extend the agenda. This point will be treated as point A2. immediately following the consideration of point A1, which was taken in the previous decision. Now we still have a decision to make on the agenda as a whole. For today's meeting, I am putting this proposal to the vote. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We are in the middle of voting on the agenda for this meeting. 76 in attendance, 52 in and 11 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it that the National Assembly has adopted the agenda for this extraordinary meeting. Colleagues and colleagues, you have been informed how I propose to the National Assembly to process or discuss agenda items. We will begin with a proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. I can predict that by 3 p.m., we will conclude the debate on behalf of the groups or Members of Parliament and Members. Immediately thereafter, we will move on to a decision on the proposal to elect a candidate for Prime Minister. Once this issue is resolved, after a few minutes of recess, we will focus on the referendum issue and then today on the issues related to the adoption of the budget, and before that we will decide on the proposal by our colleague Jerovská to move this point to one of the next meetings if the national assembly so decides. My friend Anderlich, procedurally? [[A voice from behind.]] Yeah. That's when you'll get the word from the parliamentary groups. Colleagues and colleagues! We move on to the A1 item of the agenda - Defence proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On 2 December this year, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, informed me that he had resigned from his post as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly took note of his performance at its meeting on 4 December this year. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan, proposed to the National Assembly two days later on 6 December this year that the Mag. Anton Rop. Does the representative of the President of the Republic want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I give my word to the candidate for Prime Minister, Mag. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 226 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Anton Rope is to present the Government's programming designs. There's a 45-minute candidate for that. You have the floor, mag. Anton Rop. Comrade Jerovšek, as I said, I will put your proposal to the vote when the agenda item is on. That's when we'll decide. Now he's got the word "magic." Robbery. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u4	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, citizens and citizens! It is my honour to present to you, as a candidate for Prime Minister, the programme starting points of the government that I will lead if I receive adequate support for its leadership in the National Assembly. Allow me to thank the Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšk, for the long-standing successful leadership of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before presenting the announced programming platforms. At the time of its administration, Slovenia established itself as an independent and internationally recognised state. It has reached an appropriate level of social security, economic development and economic stability and has done everything necessary to join the European Union and NATO. After us, Members and Members, there is a period of important achievements. We citizens and citizens have created a present that we can envy in many other countries. Slovenia has internationally established itself as a successful, economically developed and regulated, socially sensitive and politically stable country. It is estimated that the European Union Commission is one of the best-prepared candidates for membership in the Union. These days we are approaching the conclusion of negotiations for entry into the European Union. I am sure that our negotiators will be successful and will also improve the European Union's initial offer on the financial framework of Slovenia in recent days. The entry into the European Union is undoubtedly a historic step for Slovenia. A long-term step that means that Slovenia will take over the standards and quality of operation of the most developed European countries. Slovenia will thus become an equal part of tomorrow's Europe in the next two years and will have the opportunity to work together with other European countries to shape the fate of the world. The European Union is now at a crossroads in the search for its structure. It is facing economic and institutional problems, as well as the so-called democratic deficit, which is reflected in the increased criticism or lack of confidence and disinterest of citizens. Therefore, Slovenia must not focus on defending its own interests after joining the European Union, but must contribute to creating a successful European integration that will be economically competitive in global markets and at the same time a factor of political stability in Europe and the world. The focus is on how to expand the stability area to the rest of Europe and move from the stabilisation process to the integration process. Slovenia will have to participate in these processes, as well as in the activities of the European Union, in providing assistance to third countries and in the protection of human rights in the world. Due to our good knowledge of South-Eastern Europe, our responsibility is even greater. Slovenia has been invited to join NATO and thus has every opportunity to provide its citizens with the highest possible level of national security. I'm sure we'll do that. Our membership in NATO is an important challenge that requires in-depth reflection. For there is not a long time when we have listened, repeated, and believed that there will never be war again, but in the previous decade we have experienced more in our wider geographical space than ever. No one today can predict what the image or fate of this place will be in ten or fifteen years. The invitation to NATO would not have been if Slovenia had not made comprehensive progress if it had not in some way exported peace and stability to the entire region. We were invited to NATO because NATO needs us and because we need him too. We want the NATO enlargement process to continue and its door to remain open to all who want it. The entry into NATO will make it easier to give up general military obligations and replace it with professional soldiers and voluntary reserves. A small country on the edge of a large unstable area alone cannot provide comprehensive and sufficient defence security. Security and collective defence within NATO will be cheaper and more reliable. With many citizens and experts in our country, as well as in Europe, I share the view that NATO will also have to change in the future. The new security challenges call for reflection on the ways and content of this relationship. In this regard, in particular, I refer to the urgent diversion of attention from classical defence tasks to ensuring security through various instruments to prevent crisis situations, terrorist attacks and the like. Slovenia must invest in its defence system without entering NATO at least as much as it would have become a member. However, the level of national security at the time of entry into force of NATO is then incomparably higher. With this attitude and with convincing arguments, the new government will advocate the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. The final decision to enter NATO will belong to citizens and citizens at the referendum, and their will will be consistently respected by the government. International relations and foreign policy on the one hand are becoming increasingly important for Slovenia. On the other hand, the distances and differences between the country and abroad will be reduced. With membership in the European Union and NATO, the border will grow smaller and the possibilities for Slovenia and Slovenia will increase. The Slovenians will then, even when they travel or live far from home, remain within a connected and even unified system. To speak with one voice outside Slovenia, we need to improve cooperation and coordination at home. In cooperation with the National Assembly, with the President of the Republic and with other institutions of the system, the Government will endeavour to work as rational, coordinated and coherently as possible. In foreign policy, we don't want duplication, we want division of work. We don't want a prestigious fight, we want mutual understanding and help. State institutions have to help each other. Diplomacy must help the economy. Science and education must help with defence and diplomacy. In small Slovenia there is no way to hide information, but they need to be shared and exchanged. Let me point out just a few tasks from foreign policy. We need to maintain good neighbourly relations and partnership with neighbouring countries, while taking care of Slovenian minorities in these countries. An active policy towards South-Eastern Europe must be maintained and all assistance should be provided to bring it closer to Euro-Atlantic integration, as the stability of South-East Europe is vital for Slovenia. Helping South-East neighbours to become members of the European Union and NATO as soon as possible is not a phrase, but a Slovenian national interest. Slovenia can play a role within the European Union and NATO as one of the key contributors to the situation and processes in South-Eastern Europe. The status of Slovenia as a Central European and also a Mediterranean country needs to be strengthened. This should be reflected in bilateral relations and links with countries in this area. It is necessary to adapt the diplomatic-consular network to the new situation and to further strengthen economic diplomacy and support the economy abroad. Among the objectives of the coalition agreement on cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been concluded two years ago, we have first recorded tolerance and more integration in Slovenia, taking into account freedom of choice, the enforcement of new ideas and the non-implementation of old ideologies, the future without trauma of the past. Of course, we are not saying that we have already achieved all this, because it is a principled objective that is more ideal to be pursued than something that can be achieved once and for all. However, the fact that Slovenia is considered a politically stable country in the eyes of foreign observers, in fact for such an exception in the region, shows that we are on the right track. We want to walk on our own. Your Honor! The basis for the operation of the new government will be the visions, strategies, programmes and tasks defined in the Coalition Agreement on Cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concluded by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners, in the Strategy for the Economic Development of Slovenia, in the pre-accession economic programme and the State Development Programme, in addition to the coalition agreement, in which we will define priorities for the future period. We will also take into account all the opposition's deliberate proposals and, in particular, respond carefully to the proposals made by citizens and citizens. In the last decade, Slovenia has passed a successful path to economic development. At the beginning of the new millennium, there is one rare transition countries that have exceeded the pre-transitional level of economic activity. During this time, it is achieving higher economic growth than the Member States of the European Union. In 1996, Slovenia achieved 64% of the average gross product per capita by purchasing power of the European Union and in 2001 it reached 70%. During this period, we have managed to ensure a relatively high share of investments in gross domestic product, which has been higher since 1994 than in the European Union. It is also accompanied by a high level of savings and openness of the economy, which is reflected in the high proportion of imports and exports in gross domestic product. Despite the steady rise in wages in the public sector in recent years, however, we are seeing a steady rise in wages that are growing slower than labour productivity. We have also reduced unemployment to a level that is among the lowest in Europe, thanks to reasonable arrangements and to an active social partnership. During this period we have managed to maintain the relative stability of Slovenian public finances. We meet both the Maastricht fiscal criteria, both as regards the share of public debt and the public financial deficit in the gross domestic product. Finally, the credit risk assessment for Slovenia has improved in all independent international agencies to the level of some members of the European Union and is most favourable among all candidates for accession to the European Union. The situation in the field of social development is improving. In doing so, the active social policy of the half-life has much to do with it. The value of the human development index as a common indicator of social development is high. The comparison of income inequality and the level of risk of poverty with the average in the European Union shows that both of them are much smaller. In the field of education, Slovenia is included in the upper half of the European Union by development. The older people’s protection programme implemented by the government over the last five years has started to improve society’s relationship to older people, to provide more forms of social protection services, to extend implementation networks and to increase regional access to available capacities. On the basis of the national housing programme, the construction of social and non-profit housing has relaunched. Congregations will also have an important role to play in this regard in the future, especially in the area of building land. In the last two years Internet access and use has increased from 20% of households to 37%. Unlike some other transition countries, Slovenia has also maintained a relatively stable system of ensuring public interest in culture. At the same time, the quality of artistic production has grown, which is also reflected in the increasingly visible application of Slovenian culture in Europe and the world. Lately, for example, in film production. Your Honor! So in the past period, we have achieved much, and practically in all areas of our lives. We could say that we have already built a house, and now we need to arrange it so that we can enjoy it as comfortably as possible. Our opportunities and ambitions are great. We want to become an active part of a developed, democratic world. We want our citizens and citizens to benefit from all the benefits of global development. Therefore, we need to relax and encourage all the development potentials that are available to us and which are few. Over the past decade, we have carried out a gradual and relatively successful transition in many areas of our lives. In order to ensure the quality and stability of the country and the economy before and after its integration into the European Union, we urgently need an additional, qualitative shift in development and economic policy to build on the transition reforms so far, as well as the establishment of an institutional market economy framework that is in line with European Union rules and focuses on macroeconomic stabilisation. We must work more quickly to complete the remaining transition tasks and to optimally combine economic and structural policies on our way to the European Union so that we are organisationally and humanely and substantively prepared for the new conditions of the state and economy in the European Union, ERM2 and EMU. We need a programme to implement a strategy to accelerate the promotion of development, economic, human and environmental development factors. And finally, we need a modern, flexible, professional government, public administration and public services. It will be necessary to build systems capable of effective, professional and rapid decision-making, which will also promote the Union's Community way of action in defence of our national interests. However, these systems cannot be limited only to the functioning of the executive or political structures, but they will have to involve economic operators, trade unions, NGOs, all civil society. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to further explain some of the most important tasks in the next period. It will be necessary to complete the alignment of the Slovenian acquis with the acquis of the European Union. If the focus has been on the implementation of key reforms and the establishment of new systems in recent years, however, in the period leading to the entry into the legislative field the emphasis will be on the final adjustments necessary for Slovenia's actual entry into the European Union due to the changes brought about by the acquis of the European Union over the last period. At the political level, the most important task is to implement the urgent amendments to the Constitution necessary for entry into the European Union and, of course, to implement the referendum on Slovenia's entry into the European Union and to ratify the accession treaty. The government will also present to the Slovenian public in its entirety the circumstances and consequences of the entry into the European Union, or the reasons why it is worth taking advantage of this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. By completing the pre-accession negotiations with the European Union and setting a date for the entry into the European Union, there is also a time frame for the definitive adjustment of our economic policy and there are also clear problems that we must solve at this time. The first among them is undoubtedly inflation, which is too high and would be economically unsustainable when it enters the European Union, ERMZ. Successful integration into the European Union is not possible without a reduction in the level of inflation at European level. It will therefore be necessary, in full cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia, to combine a restrictive monetary and stable fiscal policy with a restrictive policy of regulated prices and a calmed income policy, particularly in the public sector over the next two years. Effective, transparent governance and the provision of stable public finances will also be a priority for new governments. The introduction of the two-year budget and the 2002 balance sheet account contribute significantly to greater transparency of Slovenian public finances and to more transparent and selective acceptance of new public financial commitments. The main objectives of the public financial policy over the next two years are to actively adapt the country's expenditure to the available revenue, thereby achieving a gradual reduction of the public financial deficit, setting a target structural deficit with possible application of a predetermined and limited cyclical deficit of the budget in an adverse economic situation, so that, to a limited extent, it is possible to automatically offset cyclical movements and thus to manage countercyclical economic policy, and to reduce the costs of public debt financing, taking into account the criteria of liquidity, security and profitability. The draft budget for 2003 and 2004 clearly reflects the determination of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to achieve the objectives thus set. With the new estimated economic growth for 2003 and 2004, the projected real growth of budgetary expenditure for these two years is lower than the growth of gross domestic product, which means that the share of public financial expenditure in gross domestic product will decrease over the next two years and that the share of budgetary and public deficits and public debt in gross domestic product will also decrease, reducing the cost of public debt financing and releasing the necessary funds for more ambitious financing of budgetary development priorities. Over the next two years, we will scrutinise and rationalise public financing expenditure for goods and services for the needs of direct and direct users of the wider sector, with a view to reducing them by at least 10 per cent. In the next two years, we will also achieve significant rationalisation and thus increase the resources allocated to development objectives in the area of interest payments. The basic instruments for lower interest payments will be the optimal use of privatisation purchases to reduce public debt and restructure public debt or to replace expensive, state-owned bonds with cheaper ones. Despite past intense transition processes, some important and key structural problems remain that will need to be tackled actively in the next period. It is a restructuring of the business sector, in particular in that part of the economy where it is essential to further promote competitiveness, technological development, added value and innovation. In particular, this applies to certain labour-intensive activities. Another time. This is a restructuring of the financial sector, which includes increasing its competitiveness and international comparability. In this context, the preparation and execution of the second financial pillar around the New Bank of Maribor and the final implementation of the Law on Property Transformation of Insurance are particularly important. An integral part of the restructuring of the financial sector should also be the provision of a systematic consolidation of supervision over the operations of banks, insurance companies, investment funds and capital markets. And the third time. It is the liberalisation and demonopolisation of the so-called non-changing sector. In particular in the field of telecommunications, energy and utilities. Respectable. In the field of social development, Slovenia needs to be further redirected from the so-called passive forms of aid to active forms. In particular, those who address the causes of poverty, among which the most important are the under-educated level and inadequate professional skills and the related difficult search for employment. It is also of paramount importance to achieve the objectives of social inclusion to ensure access to housing that will enable people to enjoy a decent stay and, at the same time, a system of assistance in the payment of rents. In terms of ensuring social inclusion and thereby reducing personal risk, the following tasks are particularly important for the Slovenian Government and its policy: raising the educational level, reducing unemployment, in the field of disability protection, increasing the scope of employment rehabilitation and introducing new forms of protection and support employment, and the quota system for employment of persons with disabilities, and increasing the number of social housing, and introducing a new system of subsidisation of rents. We need to continue to co-ordinate policies that will reduce the risk of poverty in the most vulnerable groups, such as the unemployed, single-member households, in particular women, elderly couples without children, single-parent families and families with at least three dependent children. Increasing employment will certainly be one of the key priorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the coming period. Over the next few years, it will be necessary to focus primarily on the following objectives: to increase employment rates, to reduce work in black, to promote labour mobility and to focus in particular on regional differences in employment; to improve the quality of work, which is a condition for increasing employment and productivity. Dialogue between the social partners and collective bargaining is of paramount importance in improving the quality of work. Reduce differences in access to the labour market in terms of socio-economic factors and regional level. Employment is the main factor in social cohesion and inclusion. With the phrase "Slovenia, the Society of Knowledge", the country in which we know many, open paths and opportunities to obtain appropriate education, one of the best ways to implement the constitutional provision on Slovenia as a social state can be summed up. It has been obvious for some time now that societies of modern times cannot guarantee a secure future for their citizens by providing them unlimitedly with different types of goods. The efforts of many countries are therefore geared towards providing more or less unlimited opportunities to achieve the highest possible level of education. This has also been decided by Slovenia, as we can compete with larger countries, especially with the higher education and competence of the entire population. A special challenge in the period ahead is the offer of additional opportunities for adult education. To enable success is the password of the concept of human resource development, which is also set by the Republic of Slovenia for its purpose. In order to make it possible for success, we need opportunities for those who are ready and able to achieve at least four years of relative general education, for all to gain at least one profession, to continue education in a diversified secondary education, to educate adults who want and need an education higher than their existing one, to continue education in a third life and to use information and communication technology from all generations. Slovenia also needs a step forward in the field of science, to start in the field of greater financial autonomy. With the necessary financial autonomy of the university, it is also necessary to establish an independent system of financing research activities from policy. Research institutes and universities will thus be given a clear responsibility for their own development. They will increase their responsibility to find closer links, especially the application part of research and a practical study with the economy and the other social environment, and the transition of scientists between the university and the institutes. It is also clear that there will be a need for additional investment, both in countries and economies, in knowledge, research and technology development. Basic health policy guidelines will increase solidarity, increased response to the needs of citizens, increased accountability of all users and healthcare providers, fair and effective allocation of funds, increased accessibility of all citizens to health services, improved protection of patients' rights, continued growth in the quality of health services and increased participation of citizens in decision-making. To monitor the implementation of such policies, it will be necessary to develop a system for monitoring and analysing the health of citizens and their level of satisfaction with the healthcare system. The fundamental principle of the healthcare system must be citizen or group of citizens with similar health risks. On the basis of these guidelines, we will draw up a complementary national healthcare programme that will give a greater emphasis to public health. The aim is a citizen who has acquired sufficient knowledge and values in his youth and who is guided to a healthy way of life. The envisaged reform will constitute a social agreement on the relationship between the needs and expectations of citizens with regard to health and health care on the one hand and the amount of investments that citizens are willing to invest in. These two parts are crucial and therefore their performance cannot be achieved without prior agreement between the social partners. More coherent regional development and regionalisation will be among the most important priorities of the new government. The fundamental strategic objective of regional policy will be to support, promote and create regional development potentials aimed at improving the well-being of the people of all Slovenian regions. The most important mechanisms to implement more coherent regional development are: strengthening regional centres of national importance by means of a planned and coordinated national and local development policy: active integration, the design and implementation of European regional policy with the capacity to fully acquire European Union funds, structural and cohesion policies and, in particular, for their effective use; strengthening the role of spatial planning; the final implementation of agricultural policy reform, in particular in the rural development function; and the enforcement of local self-government; and the development of landscapes. The provinces will be an important tool for decentralisation of authorities and for more focused polycentric development and the urgent elimination of too many differences in development between regions. However, the implementation of the provinces should not increase the relative costs of managing the entire company, and it will therefore be based on consistent respect for the principle of a proportionate transfer of powers and sources of funding. Culture is an important factor in the economy and social development. Cultural heritage, cultivated landscape and festivals are one of the key factors in the tourism economy. Cultural creativity also contributes to the creativity and innovation of human resources in other areas. In the coming period, it is necessary to adopt and implement the national programme for culture. The setting of strategic objectives in the field of culture and cultural development of Slovenia for the long term is one of the priorities of the government, in particular with regard to the preservation of the cultural identity of the Slovenian people in the multitude of peoples in the European Union. The promotion of information processes and the creation of an information society has been and remains one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, it is important to create stable legal frameworks and security policies that will accelerate the e-business dimension of the economy, with particular attention being paid to the e-business of small and medium-sized enterprises. The so-called digital divide should be reduced by computer internet literacy measures. In this context, let me mention only the inter-ministerial project of computer education for the unemployed, which will increase their labour market opportunities. The most important tasks in the field of justice are the modernisation of justice and the preparation of relevant legislation, the implementation of Slovenian and European judicial policy. Although the majority of the courts around the world are faced with judicial backlogs, that cannot be our excuse. The number of judicial backlogs will need to be significantly reduced to ensure the assumptions of the rule of law, in particular the right to be tried within a reasonable time. The government will continue to take care of the conditions that will enable the current functioning of the judiciary. The e-book project will need to be continued and completed. Once completed, it will be necessary to provide adequate public access to the data of the Land Book in electronic form, as well as to the data of the Court Registry. Both public books will also need to be fully linked to the information system supporting the work of the courts and other registers and records of data, allowing for the current exchange and complementarity of data in the latest forms and facilitating the business of customers and bodies. The government will continue its efforts to complete denationalisation procedures as soon as possible. It will draw up a single national denationalisation completion plan, which will also provide a timeframe. The central task in the area of internal security will continue to reduce the safety risks of all types and ensure internal security according to the most demanding European standards. This will be done through a European harmonised legal order, both to safeguard the future external borders of the European Union and to suppress all forms of crime and to ensure public order and peace. The implementation of demanding Schengen standards for the control of future external borders is one of the most important and financially demanding national projects. In the future, the Government will focus on further infrastructure development, human resources development and technical modernisation. In order to implement the projects, we will seek to obtain additional funding from the European Union funds and implement the burden-sharing rule between all Member States. The basis for this is the 1998 European Parliament resolution, which provides that all Member States are responsible for the effective control of the external borders of the European Union. In the area of implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways, all necessary activities are being accelerated. In the basic motorway planning act, 34 per cent more funding is foreseen for the management, maintenance and construction of motorways in 2003 than in this year. For the construction itself, a good 38 per cent more funding is foreseen than this year. The development programme for the construction of motorways by 2005 is prepared with the objective of prioritising the construction of highway links in the directions currently most burdened by transport. At the same time, the possibility of including additional extrabudgetary resources in the area of construction, management, maintenance of road infrastructure, in particular the motorway network, needs to be explored. On the other state roads segment, this is the main and regional roads, the main objective of long-term development will be to improve the situation on and along state roads and thus contribute to the sustainable development of the country. The strategic objective of the Main and Regional Roads Development Programme will allow appropriate accessibility conditions according to geographical location and an effective and cost-effective internal link across Slovenia, taking into account demographically threatened border and tourist areas. Investments in the network of main and regional roads will be directed towards removing those bottlenecks in existing road infrastructures, which in the near future would be a limiting factor in economic and social development, while planning measures will not forget the principle of coherent regional development. More emphasis will also be placed on the protection of and protection of traffic on main and regional roads in the coming day. A key role in the area of space is the adoption of a spatial development and spatial order strategy. These two documents or spatial acts will replace the current 1986 State Spatial Plan, which is no longer adapted to the development requirements of Slovenia. With the national anti-crime programme to be submitted by the Government to the National Assembly in the coming year and the national road safety programme already adopted, I underline the following priorities: effective prevention and investigation of all forms of organised crime, with emphasis on combating drug trafficking and illicit substances and trafficking in human beings, preventing and effectively combating all forms of violence, in particular domestic violence and violence against children, investigating new forms of economic crime in relation to the capital market and international financial transactions, ensuring greater road safety and reducing the number of victims in traffic accidents by 50% by 2005 compared to 1995. The government will continue the process of simplifying the organisation of state authorities. This will also be based on European experience, as the Slovenian state must be organised in such a way as to be a quality and effective interlocutor to the relevant European institutions. The process of deregulation of treatment of citizens and citizens and legal entities will continue in order to eliminate excessive standardization of their behaviour or behaviour. We will verify all the rules, in terms of the prudence, urgency, necessity and rationality of individual procedures at different stages of the implementation and acquisition of administrative services. Slovenia is a small country and our influence in Europe will depend mainly on our creativity and the ability to reach an internal consensus on the objectives and priorities. The inclusion of all generations in the social decision-making process is crucial. The values of modern democratic society, such as freedom, equal opportunities, responsibilities, the entrepreneurial spirit, the ethics of individual efforts, tolerance and solidarity, must be strengthened among young people. Their participation in society should be enhanced and personal autonomy and social integration promoted, in particular by increasing education and creating opportunities for employment and easier access to housing. We want to provide young people with youth as a period of productive life, search and experimentation. Through youth policy, we will ensure the choices and rights of choice, search and expression and the application of our own ideas, views and views. Your Honor! We have a period of new opportunities and trials ahead of us. I'm sure we'll survive the trials and seize the opportunity. I hope that we will do our every part of the task and get every part of the opportunity. I wish that both coalition and opposition parties continue to be responsible, as they have done in recent years. The new government will also take on its share of responsibility. For Slovenia, the second half begins with the entry into the largest international integration. I think we can get into it with our heads up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister's candidate, Mag. Anton Rop, to present the government's programming designs. They will now receive the word of the Group of Members to present their views on your presentation. First of all, I will invite my colleague, Ivan Kebric, to present the views of the DeSUS Group of Members, after which he will be given the floor of his colleague, Saša Peca, as a member of the Slovenian National Party. First, my friend Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable candidate for Prime Minister, colleague and colleague! We are ahead of a decision on whom we will entrust the task for the next two years, and this very responsible task of leading the government that is to enforce those laws that we are adopting, and of course we will take care of how these laws are fulfilled by us. The other thing is, a respected candidate, that you are ahead of a very, not only difficult task, but a very responsible task. In your exhibition, you have given us a very wide range of areas and also told us what you think and how you feel about these areas. But our thing is, and here we have the Slovenian river, one is to promise, the other is to execute. And he also says, "Our nation feeds our memories." And we are feeding and feeding this performance of yours, all that you have laid down, and know that there will be so many tasks in these two years that you will have to work very hard to do most of them. We believe that there is a recession in the world that has consequences for our economy and not least for our standard.The citizens expect a good standard, but they also expect a good infrastructure to be taken care of by the country, because if I just give a cartoon example, what helps you to drive a good car if you drive on bad road in macadam. Therefore, I believe that it is essential how a gross social product will be distributed, how much for the benefit of citizens and how much for other additional needs that the government will first have to take care of. We believe in the parliamentary group, as in the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, that you have certain, not only theoretical knowledge, because you are a master, but you have experience and we believe that these are rich experiences from your previous mandate when you were Minister of Labour, Family and Social Policy. Your sense of social welfare assures us that, as Prime Minister, you will still have this feeling for those who are very difficult to live today, that I will be concrete, barely connecting the end of the month with the next beginning. This social sense and social needs, which are reflected on the basis that you will have to make sure that the economy works and, above all, that there will always be a decline in the majority or crowd of unemployed people, because unemployment is not only a Slovenian problem, unemployment is a global problem and we will have to involve ourselves as a state and you as Prime Minister to watch and see how others will solve this problem, how we will solve it at home and, above all, that we, although a small country, with a good government, with a good parliament, with the good cooperation of all citizens for what we want for good, and therefore we believe that you are a suitable candidate and that our parliamentary group will support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. I now give the floor to the presentation of the views of the Slovenian National Party Group to my colleague, Saš Pečet, who will be followed by a colleague of mags. Andrej Vizjak. First of all, my friend Peca, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u8	Your Honor! The Slovenian national party will not support Minister Rop, as we estimate that his ambitions are greater than his abilities and that this is a loss to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much, buddy. I'm asking for peace in the hall. A colleague of mags. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members and will be followed by a colleague of Dr. Andrej Bajuk to present the views of the New Slovenia Group of Members. First, my fellow magician. Andrej Vizjak. You have the floor, Comrade Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly. Respectable candidate for Prime Minister, dear colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, a nice welcome on behalf of the Social Democratic Party! In the Social Democratic Party, we are of the view that when we evaluate people and candidates and, of course, even when we evaluate political parties, it is most important that decisions be made on the basis of actions and not words, on the basis of what has been done and not on the basis of promises. From the presentation of the distinguished candidate, I would hardly see a point I do not agree with, and it would be practical to read it again on similar occasions, but it would always be topical. However, as I say, it is only necessary to assess actions. And this two-year operation of the government, as well as the actions of a candidate as a finance minister in the previous government, provides an opportunity to assess his work so far and, last but not least, offers the possibility of some analysis of the previous work done by the candidate. I think that Mr Rop has been involved in practically the most important projects, state projects, reform projects in the past, this is the privatisation of the Slovenian economy, pension and disability insurance reforms and, of course, in the area of public finances lately. I think that all these projects have been more or less sound and, above all, in the light of the anomalies they have caused. Last but not least, privatisation today shows this real picture, when we see that in a very short period of time, there are rare uplifters who today measure their wallets into almost a hundred million, if not billions of tolars, including the stories of Elan and similar matters. This is somehow due to some kind of such or different, planned or even unplanned policies. As far as pension reform is concerned, it has been well established and supported in that three-pillar case, but it has finally fallen apart, probably due to a number of pressures and, last but not least, it has to be relaxed. As Minister of Finance, I would have come down to this analysis in a little more detail, namely, I have on the table a coalition contract between the Liberal Democracy and other parties two years ago, I have a magnetogram of a committee meeting where the candidate for a minister was somehow heard, and I also have an analysis of the macroeconomic trends in Slovenia, which, at the request of the Socialist Party's Group, was carried out by the research sector of the National Assembly. In short, it's relevant data. And if we just go down to the public finances of the coalition treaty, we can read here that it will be in the next four years, that is to say, it was said 4 years ago that the government will provide such a development of public finances that will enable the implementation of priorities in the economic, social, without pressure on increasing fiscal burdens, increasing public debt due to an increase in the public financial deficit. If we can analyse the budgets, practically for the whole period, we have two now in the following session, it would be very difficult to say that they can highlight priorities, priorities. You can do it in the textual part. Otherwise, budgets were more or less an inexpressible indexation of the budgets of previous years. And it would be hard, hard to even talk in numbers, about some of the priorities. Let me just mention one of the areas, that's the area of education. We said that we wanted to be a knowledge-based society, that we would invest in education, and now they are writing or talking about us introducing scholarships for undergraduate studies. The reform of the introduction of a nine-year-old has stalled so that a number of congregations, which will of course have to provide these conditions, will not be able to do so within the prescribed time frame and do not know how they will be in some environments. In short, written down, not realized. I think that we could find such areas and, finally, the highway cross, which we have rebalanced to the point that today, here in this assembly, is probably not clear to anyone when it will be completed. Finally, it states that there will be a reduction in the burden of socially weak layers and appropriate promotion of the development of the human factor in the economy. This is probably the desire to relieve those with the lowest income in terms of payment or income scale, which, of course, has not happened so far, nor do we see any possibility. Socially weak layers are relatively strong at stake: on the one hand, it is obvious when we talk about their salaries and, of course, the taxes resulting from them, on the other hand, in constant fear and partial unemployment, which is growing again in this country after some of the results of the previous year. It further states: the fundamental objectives for which the coalition will be committed. This is to ensure the share of government revenue and expenditure in gross domestic product during the period 2001 at around 42%. If we review the analysis that we have received, we see that the share of public sector expenditure in gross domestic product has moved over the years, we have here from 1992 to 2001 and in the years 2000 and 2001, 44.14 and now 44.48. And it does not appear by budgetary documents to approach this promise and this commitment 42 percent. As we continue to speak, the public financial deficit in the context of a 3-year reduction every year in 2004 becomes a surplus. Your Honor, this is a provision for a coalition treaty. In the 2004 budget, we still have a deficit, and according to the Secretary of State, yesterday on the Committee on Finance, we will have this deficit a number more, many years ahead. In short, once again an unfulfilled promise. Public debt must be settled at a level between 35 and 40 per cent of gross domestic product, so that the deficit will be reduced at the same time and the debt will be repaid early with income from the privatisation of banks and insurance companies. In view of the controversy between the minister and a number of journalists, as we have read in the Economic Gazette, we find that, on the one hand, there is a shortage of public debt in a larger country, but we really need to talk about the public debt of a wider country. And according to the data we have, which shows that, of course, this long movement is already close or has already reached 40% and will reach 42% if the actual purchase from the New Ljubljana Bank is not used solely for public debt repayment. Moreover, the privatisation of the banking sector, in line with the forecasts of this coalition contract, the privatisation of banks and insurance companies is lagging behind and lagging behind. Last but not least, at insurance companies, we got back into some insurmountable business. Furthermore, point three states that by reforming public enterprises, we will allow for greater competitiveness and efficient business in accordance with economic and development criteria in line with public interest and gradual privatisation. Where did this happen? What about Dars? What about concessions? What about railways? It says here: through the inclusion of private capital, their financing, funds will be released for emergency infrastructure facilities where private capital is generally not involved. Tell me, where did private capital get involved in the financing? Here, unfortunately, I think there is a lot of correct guidance in this coalition contract in the area of public finances, but unfortunately, today after two years we cannot talk about some successful implementation of this treaty. Furthermore, the fourth point is the reform of the budgetary system, based on results control, performance reporting and results achieved, so that political orientations and priorities are qualitatively linked to the allocation of budgetary resources. Nowhere! Unfortunately, we are very late in the area of transparency in public finances. Today, forgive me, it is practical when we adopt budgets and now, through this rebalancing of budgets, none of us understands what and what tasks and means will, of course, be financed in the following year. Although we have made a very detailed cut in spending and revenue analysis for the next period, it is not clear to anyone here today what will be done and to what extent, because, according to the legislation in the field of budget implementation, of course, the budgetary users, the ministry and the government, the right and the ability to redistribute themselves, the additional debt, the use of that stabiliser and the use of that "drop off the fog" on what this national assembly accepts, and at the end of the year we can face a rebalancing which, of course, brings all of this together into some legal form, but with this, according to my opinion, there is no transparent spending of public money. Let's make more haste - in my opinion - to a very important macroeconomic indicator, this is inflation. Unfortunately, our country has failed and has not been able to bring this inflation to a level by some effective anti-inflation policy so that we can enter the European Union in some effective way. Even when we asked yesterday, and also from the policy presentation, anti-inflation policy, unfortunately, there is no effective opportunity to fight inflation. What is more, we can read in a magazine today from the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs not to agree that inflation will settle or reduce to a satisfactory level at the expense of harmonising the social expenditure of the budget or social transfers - that is, pensions, social assistance and everything else. In short, there's obviously something going on here. I cannot imagine that we could go to the adoption of legislation in this area in a different way to harmonise all pensioners' already acquired rights, not least of all other social transfers, and, of course, at this point, seek to have an impact on inflation. I am also interested in how the government will succeed, in that there is nothing done with many monopolies during this period and nothing has been done in terms of privatisation and rationalisation and the operation of many monopolistic companies in Slovenia. How, somehow, will it overtake price increases in this area and, of course, the rising prices of municipal services? Will this burden fall on the local community or on anyone else who will have to cover the difference between economic prices and prices that will be blocked in the light of inflation reduction? The fifth objective presented by the distinguished minister two years ago was to reform the tax system in the area where it needs to be continued, which of course means to complete the reform of direct taxes and to increase the efficiency of the Slovenian tax administration. I think and I see that nothing has been done here, in fact the opposite: the tax administration has received new areas of action with many new tasks that are illegal, and this means that the existing and unaltered administration is virtually no longer in line with many tasks. So it happens that smaller taxpayers, meaning a significant share, are somehow only under the scrutiny and also somehow easier to guarantee and also have to provide for all their obligations, while there are many anomalies in the larger taxpayers, because the people employed there are practically better professionals in this area than most tax administrations. Here, it seems to me that it shows inefficiency or necessity to increase the efficiency of the Slovenian tax administration, which is also reflected in the very poor collection of taxes collected, which is also clear from the budget documents, how the tax is being collected and how much is the percentage of the tax that is practically not collected. In this part, I would somehow start and draw attention to another important area relating to promises made two years ago, namely the real estate tax law and concession legislation. Unfortunately, despite the clearly recorded dates in this document, there is not a great deal in this area, at least it does not appear, in the opposition we do not know what is done, that the government can know more about it. However, the promise made in this case, when it will begin, is contained in the Real Estate Tax Act: "we will adopt it in 2001 so that it will enter into force 1.1.2003, and individual provisions already 1.1.2002, which will lead to greater rationality in the use of buildings, agricultural areas and progressive taxation of properties." My dears, I don't see the results in this area. In short, a respected candidate. I'm looking forward to it. If what you've presented here today had been done - you haven't talked about deadlines. I hope you thought what you wrote would be done within two years. That's what it says, at this time when you're somehow and likely to be Prime Minister. As far as the priorities are concerned, you can count on the opposition to take part, analyse the matter and make proposals to improve the solutions you will propose for those tasks in favour of Slovenia. However, I would ask you to think for a moment about what you said two years ago at the hearing, what you wrote in the coalition contract and what is being done today. Finally, I would just like to know from you on this occasion that it will also be easier to decide what kind of ministerial team you will set up. Are you going to keep some ministers and ministers on your team who have apparently been doing their jobs poorly over the past two years? Let me mention the Ministry of Economy. You mentioned here that Slovenia needs to be developed in the light of economic development, in the light of the development of productivity growth, in the light of the rise in value added, in the light of the improvement in competitiveness, the innovativeness of technological development. I ask you what has been done in these two years, with the exception of those rare exceptions where, of course, companies themselves have had this business policy and more or less without State aid and incentives to regulate this area. Last but not least, this is the story of Elena, where I believe there has been an unacceptable case of the sharing of some common created money between a handful of individuals who own everything today, despite the fact that the country has invested a great deal of money in this economic entity. Let me mention the Ministry of Health. The health department has a growing deficit. Transfers from the budget exceed all reasonable limits. Finally, he is behind the minister of the referendum, where he burned down about the concept he advocated. I ask whether you also have in mind a change in the Ministry of the Environment and Space, where there has been an unsuccessful interpretation across this Parliament, but representatives and members of liberal democracy have also supported the interpolation, which further underlines that it has been weighty and reasoned. I am also interested in what you will do at the Ministry of the Interior, where we somehow have very obvious problems with the insurance of our sea, with a police boat that has been standing on land for several years and our rubber boat somehow paralyses Croats in all these incidents that have been at sea. In short, there are a few sources that would require some change, and therefore I only expect you to do what you will do in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Andrej Vizjak. I now invite my colleague, Dr. Andre Bajuk, to the floor. He will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. He will be given the floor of his colleague Potrč to present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and, first, by his colleague, Dr Bajuk for New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, In the middle of his term of office, Dr. Janez Drnovšek decided and successfully ran for President of the State and left the government. Now the great coalition offers us an extremely worrying choice, namely, a mandate-holder who represents the most genuine picture of the politics of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, without retouching and blurring the past ten years. Mag. Anton Rop, in contrast to his predecessor, personally and actively participated in the most important and controversial companies and projects led by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, along with satellites in its governments. From the point of view of the continuity forces concerned at the beginning of the transition with the acquisitions she had acquired in the previous regime, it was very effective. At the same time, he disappointed citizens and citizens who hoped and expected radical changes that the democratic, social and legal state would have to make in the face of tested experiences around the world. By his works we met him - and by the gaps he left behind. Mag. The robbery worked in decisive positions in Drnovskov's governments to bring political power and positions in which some of the former regime's leaders were calmly transferred to their economic and financial predominance. With the support of the background protectors, it was at the head of that small group of people who used the transition to become capitalists and those who were oppressed or simply systematically ignored in the previous regime were left to themselves. It has proved to be a successful project for the division of Slovenians into a rich and highly influential minority of new rich and forgotten, diligent, silent majority. I'm talking about this quiet majority. Not enough time to pay special attention to every stumbling block that's magnified. Robbery left behind. But I'll try to list them. Mag. Robbery was one of the key actors in the Slovenian privatisation project. Also thanks to him, the property transformation of the former social property took place at two different levels: public, on the basis of a broad political consensus and with a personal letter from Dr. Janez Drnovška, which was received by all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, the story of the division of ownership certificates, the purchase of shares in companies, later the establishment of pids and the collection of certificates that citizens could not spend on direct purchases of shares in companies; a huge certificate hole will pass into the Slovenian tradition. But hidden from the public eyes was running and another game is still running: interior ownership, managers buying businesses and insiding property concentration. Large - scale abuses remained undiscovered, and the supervisors briefly withdrew. Liberal democracy and mag. You can own a robbery as one of the major trophies of destroying the former SDK, which stood on the brink of wild property. The remains of an effective control system which remained after the collapse of this institution have proved to be completely ineffective. You could say they're exactly what they wanted. Mag. Robbery could also say a lot about mixing political and economic power with large state funds, such as the capital and compensation fund and the Slovenian Development Society. The misuse of these funds, which have at least a relative majority of the capital in most privatised societies, may at any time and by any means interfere with the economy and set up and dispose of leading people. Elan, Geoplin, Koper Bank, BTC are just some cases of abuse, major spillage and concentration of former common assets and individual wealth. Increasing social distribution in Slovenia is becoming a more serious problem every day. Even from the time he was Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, he was a magician. Robbery remains a number of gaps that fill up with poverty among hundreds of thousands of citizens. The previous balance in the pay system is due to the appearance of mags. Robbery in this area collapsed when it left a disproportionate increase in wages to certain groups. His method of postponing problems, seemingly giving in to demands and promising large increases in wages, of course in a few years, worked only on short notice. In the long run, however, it has undermined confidence in the rule of law and has caused chaos, which will be very difficult to solve. With some reckless measures he built a famous pension hole in state finances. The pension reform remained halfway: instead of a permanent solution to the problem of an ageing company by introducing a combination of a positive and investment pillar of insurance by means of a reserve share in the ownership of the former social capital, its reform brought only reductions in current pensions and an uncertain prospect for generations still awaiting retirement. Attempts with pension vouchers and the introduction of additional insurance have been turned into a contradiction of solidarity and reciprocity. The so-called social dialogue has transformed into a systemic subordination of the leadership of pensioners, disabled persons, students, employees and other social groups with access to state funds or with various concessions. These funds are fueled by corruption of many and influential non-governmental bureaucracy, which, in exchange for its cooperation with the objectives of the ruling elite, maintains social peace. We're getting some kind of corporate rule, known from totalitarian systems. As Minister of Finance, he worked for only two years. Therefore, we cannot say that he is to blame for the state of our public finances, which has remained behind the previous Drnovški governments. I'm sure you remember his statements in the first months after taking on this responsibility that "bones fall out of closets." Apparently, he decided to lock those lockers, and he carefully made the keys so he wouldn't find them anywhere. After two years at the head of the Ministry of Finance, there's a mag. The robbery is responsible for the continued impreciseness of our public finances, so it is still very difficult in Slovenia to clarify who drinks and who pays. It is also responsible for new errors: still rising public debt, over-budget financing, poor tax system and inefficient tax performance, high inflation is not a good recommendation for taking on the most responsible role in the country. We have been in New Slovenia so far and will be a constructive opposition during this period. We are working for the common benefit of citizens and the country, and therefore we are alien to every kind of hospitality and politics. However, from the work done so far by the candidate for a term of office, we find that it is part of these problems that are facing our common future, so we cannot expect it to be a solution. We will not support the proposed candidacy for the term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. I now give the floor to my colleague, Mr Ptræ, and he will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, after which he will be given the floor of his colleague, Mr Štemberger. Let's go, buddy. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Honorable candidate for Prime Minister, Mag. Mr Tone Rop, Honourable President of the National Assembly, Dear Members and Members of Parliament. In autumn 2000, the United List of Social Democrats decided to participate in the government created by Dr. Janez Drnovšek. At the election of Drnovsk as Prime Minister, we stressed that we are consciously deciding to participate in the government coalition, aware of our responsibilities to the electorate, who in 2000 gave us one third more votes than in the previous state-run elections, and we have also made it clear that they do not want a government that had power before those elections from summer to autumn 2000. We have stressed that we do not create illusions that it will be easy to govern. On the contrary, the continuation of reforms at home and the equal entry into Euro-Atlantic links will require a clear vision and a strong political will to achieve the objectives set. We have decided, together with other partners in the government, to take concrete responsibility for the future of the country. Together with other parties to the government coalition, we have developed a concrete, advanced and development-oriented programme and have specifically agreed on our relations and methods of action. In the United List of Social Democrats, we have taken over the leadership of three important government departments: the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Interior, according to our electoral success. After two years of joint work, we find that we have successfully accomplished an important part of the tasks of the coalition programme. This applies to our ministries as a whole. Their contribution to joint tasks and achievements has been noted. It is not only the scope of the legislative work when, in these three areas, we have practically completed the most important systemic reforms, labour legislation, family and social policy, the organisation of persons with disabilities, the public administration system, the system of public sector wages, legislation in the media, librarianism and public interest for culture, complemented by European legislation on the rights and situation of foreigners, migrants, state borders and asylum, complemented and remedied shortcomings in pension reform and could also list them. But more importantly, we have put in place a system of social partnership in the management of income and wage policies and pension coordination, that we have put in place an active employment policy and that we have started efforts to permanently reduce the number of unemployed, that there are ready starting points for the implementation and establishment of the provinces in Slovenia, if I mention just a few of the most important projects. Otherwise, the government has generally been successful. This is also confirmed by the international comparisons and the fact that we are concluding negotiations for full membership in the European Union in these days and that we have also accepted an official invitation to full membership in NATO at the Prague Summit. All of these are the reasons why, at the decision of Prime Minister Janez Drnovska to run for President of the State, and in his election as President of the State, we have also decided to support the new mandate holder proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Mag. Toneta Ropa, and to participate in the coalition so far until the end of the four-year term. We are convinced that this coalition has the strength and ability to complete its work and, given the changed circumstances, to set new tasks and priorities. This was also the reason why we paid less attention in the United List of Social Democrats to the human resources issues of the government. Our only request was that any changes in the government should be made solely because of its tasks and the desire for it to function more effectively, not just because of coalition relations or customer needs, and that, irrespective of the powers of the Prime Minister, we are aware of his proposals before the final decision, that we can only assume full responsibility for the government's joint success. We've done this together so far. Otherwise, we have proposed that special attention should be paid to assessing the tasks performed under the Coalition Treaty and the priorities for the future. Even such of course, as time has brought and we have not known or assessed two years ago that there is a need for greater attention; to emphasize and identify certain outstanding tasks, including the entry into the European Union and NATO, to which the form and timing of the referendums, as well as constitutional changes, must also be included. And in order to complement and agree, after the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, in order to emphasize and enforce the responsibility and equality of all coalition parties, of course also take into account the quality of their proposals and views on the content of the issues being dealt with in order to increase the role of Members and Members in the preparation of decisions in the government and not only in the National Assembly, and their responsibility for the enforcement of such coordinated decisions, while at the same time the quality and effectiveness of the government and the coalition – all due to the responsibility for the tasks of the State and the needs and interests of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. We believe that, on the basis of an additional agreement within the framework of coalition parties, we will be able to make a thorough assessment of the performance of the tasks of the existing coalition treaty by the middle of February of next year and to clearly set common priorities for the next two years. There is no time, and I would certainly forget much in the short run if I wanted to list these assignments. Honorable candidate for Prime Minister, Mag. Tone Rop! Your work so far is linked to many important reforms of the economic and social system in Slovenia at a time after independence, perhaps even with many politically and socially very difficult and sensitive. Each of these tasks has been dealt with with with with great enthusiasm and responsibility. Sometimes we did not agree with some of your proposals, sometimes you were, at least in part, willing to listen to us, many times the achievement of the goal meant more than a re-taliatory assessment of the under-invented solution with possible negative consequences; but you were never prepared for dialogue, even though he was sometimes harsh and unfriendly. And you've never stayed halfway. That's who you are. We know you. You are not an unwritten sheet of paper, even though you have not yet carried out the task of Prime Minister. So far, experience, skills and character traits give you the opportunity to perform them successfully. We sincerely want to help you in this regard. Not because of you or us, but because of responsibility to citizens and citizens of Slovenia. We expect you to accept our willingness and desire for open and sincere cooperation. Not to lock yourself up, just in the circle of your advisors or your client, but to remain open to suggestions and suggestions, to dialogue and to find the best solutions, as well as to well-meaning criticism. In this respect, there is still considerable scope for better cooperation in the coalition, as well as for better relations between the government and the National Assembly. If we do so, we believe in good cooperation and in our common success. Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will also vote in favour of your election as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. I now invite my colleague Igor Štemberger to the microphone. He will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia and will be followed by a colleague Janez Podobnik to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. First of all, Comrade Štemberger, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! As soon as the first suggestion arose that Dr Drnovšek would run for president of the country, we warned the party that Slovenia was in a very sensitive period of accession to the European Union, which must be used as much as possible as possible for final arrangements for integration into the European Union. The voters elected the President of the State of Slovenia, of their own free will, and we respect their opinion in the Party of Young Slovenia. With the election of the new president of the country, the post of Prime Minister has become vacant, so the government is now primarily dealing with the appointment of new ministers, a coalition party in this context, of course, each of them is able to meet their own human resources needs. The final negotiations for entry into the European Union, however, are going their way, unfortunately not in what we would like in Slovenia. Thus, internal instability as a result of the appointment of a new mandate-holder and government is already being negatively reflected in Slovenia's most important process in the history of independence, namely entry into the European Union. This is not good, so in the Young Slovenia Party, we expect you to complete the human resources kitchen as soon as possible, in particular in order for Slovenia to obtain a government with full powers to complete the project of integration into the European Union as soon as possible. In our decision to support the new mandate-holder, we have relied on a key criterion in the Youth Slovenia Party, which is the government's work over the past two years. In particular, we checked what you coalition parties wrote in the coalition contract, with what you actually did. The differences between the written and realized are quite large, too large for the Party of Young Slovenia to consider supporting the mandate holder, regardless of who the biggest government party would propose. Support to the mandate-holder would mean that in the Party of Youth of Slovenia we support the policy of coalition parties that have demonstrated over the past two years by their actions that, despite promises and assurances, they are not committed to substantive arrangements and strategic objectives to ensure the successful and stable development of our country. Economic growth in Slovenia has fallen significantly below the forecast of at least 5% and is expected to fall further. One of the key tasks of bringing the European Union closer, reducing the rate of inflation, has not been achieved. Inflation is significantly too high and the government does not show any serious intentions to lower it. However, if it succeeds, it can, as has happened in other EU candidate countries: as a result, it also means a significant additional reduction in economic growth. As will be the case with future economic growth, we can also guess on the basis of the projected investment rate, which is high in Slovenia, but in a more accurate review of the structure of these investments we find that they are primarily focused on building infrastructure, such as roads, but not on education and knowledge, as in countries that are oriented towards the information society. In your coalition promises, you have written that Slovenia, under your rule, will be directed towards an information society, the key factors of growth, the power of ideas, knowledge and information. The reality is completely different. Apart from the creation of a new ministerial centre in this area, there are no visible effects which would also in practice indicate that the state supports the development of the information society. As in this area, the implementation of the Anti-Burocratic Programme, which is intended to rationalise the work of employees in state administrations, while at the same time informing the state administration. You also appointed a minister councillor for this area, but after two years, citizens still face long-standing bureaucratic obstacles, and your promises remain only letters on the paper of the coalition contract. The next area is regionalisation in Slovenia and promotion of regional development. If anywhere, you can see in this area that you are still not prepared to let go of the centralist rule you have been building for the past ten years. Slovenia still has no provinces. Regional development agencies lack the legal means they would need to implement development programmes that would greatly mitigate uneven development and allow for a life perspective for all citizens and not just those who are fortunate enough to live in or around Ljubljana. In the Coalition Treaty and its annexes, you have also committed yourself to improving the conditions affecting the situation of young people and have paid particular attention to the areas of education, employment, social, housing, equal opportunities policies and the perspective of young people. In the field of education, you have committed yourself to fulfilling human rights, which guarantee all individuals equal opportunities to education, regardless of birth, age, psychological and physical design, social and cultural origin, nationality, sex, sexual orientation, language, religion or any other circumstance.However, universities and colleges have different impulses - on paying regular study after 2005, as you do not provide the basic necessary resources for the implementation of study programmes. Students are waiting in vain for the new 5,000 student beds and the promotion of the scholarship policy, which would at least slightly deny the fact that the possibility of education is becoming increasingly affluent, not the right of all citizens, regardless of their social status. In the field of employment, you have committed yourself to allow each individual to develop and implement his or her abilities regardless of gender, age, and place of residence. In addition to developing a strategy to tackle unemployment - retraining programmes - you should also implement it. Especially with a focus on unemployed youth, which represents a great intellectual potential. Only on the basis of encouraging employment programmes would there be a realistic possibility for young people to return to regions with low levels of development and to participate in rural economic and entrepreneurial reconstruction. You have committed yourself to the fight against poverty and social exclusion in the social field. Exclusion is to be overcome through specific programmes that allow individuals to exercise their legal right to choose equal access to all services. These programmes should be systematically encouraged and co-financed. In Slovenia, this would also mean closer cooperation with NGOs offering better quality services or services that individuals want and need. Given the great social hardships of the citizens, you failed. People are left to themselves and can only nemo monitor the unimaginable waste of the country for the privileges of rulers. A very important area that the previous term holder, as a coalition in his contract, has allocated quite a bit of space to him is housing policy. The coalition ensured the accelerated construction of apartments, which will increase the quality of life in the country at both cost and quality. Despite the fact that a large number of citizens have decided to save as part of the housing savings scheme, it is expected that housing prices will be even higher and that housing will not be available. You simply forgot the necessary construction of the apartments and thus extended the agony of all those who have been trying to settle the housing problem for years as the basic foundation of a decent life. We have highlighted only a few basic unresolved areas, but there are also international areas, such as the border with Croatia, which you resolve every summer with ad hoc arrangements, but which fall year after year and show no real possibility that this important area will be regulated in due course. When will Slovenia settle the border with Croatia? When will the southern border also be the border of the European Union? Or can we do this bilaterally earlier? Also an important and long-term issue, which almost completely weakened the involvement of Slovenia in NATO at the time of the appointment of the new mandate holder and the composition of the new government. Above all, whether and when citizens will decide on this at the referendum. When we proposed a call for a preliminary consultation referendum on Slovenia's involvement in the relationship to NATO in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, you have repeatedly told us that we have not yet been invited to dinner; now, after having invited you to dinner, it seems more and more that you are avoiding the invitation to a referendum, as we should tell people publicly that we will also have to bring a plate, cutlery, food and then pay for the service. This is also reflected in the 2004 draft supplementary budget proposal on high-level items as a result of the integration into NATO. This is why we call on you once again to allow the referendum before March 2003. The nonconsistency of the coalition is also reflected in the defence that the time of transition is behind us, and yet in the Party of Youth Slovenia we warn that after the appointment of the new mandate holder, only the name will change, and the concentration and increase of power in one centre remains. As we do not believe in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, on the basis of the monitoring of work and the priority of the ruling coalition, that the way of governance will be changed to the extent that your priorities and, above all, the conduct of the Party of Young Slovenia, the candidate for the mandate of the Mag. We're not supporting Anton Rope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. I now invite my colleague Janez Podobnik to the microphone, who will present the views of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected candidate for Prime Minister Mag. Anton Rop, distinguished fellow Member and fellow Members! The Statute of the Slovenian People's Party provides that when a party decides on important political issues and, in particular, on coalition links, such matters shall be decided by the Main Committee. The main committee of our party is a very wide body, with most presidents or representatives of municipal committees. This is a very democratic way of making decisions - it is exhausting, but it is democratic. Last night, the Main Committee met and, on the basis of a procedure with a large majority of the members, supported the nomination of mags. Anton Rope as Prime Minister. Later, some of my fellow Members will also address the debate. I am convinced that there is no one among us who does not realize the turning point of the time in which we live and who brings a great deal of challenges to us. Slovenia will receive a new Prime Minister at a time when an important period of European history and a new consensus is concluded, for the first time in history we are also co-created by Slovenians and we are not just silent observers of the decisions of the great forces. Slovenia has developed into a country of key importance in the region. Slovenia needs a government that will be aware of these roles and will be able to capitalise on our geopolitical position. Our success does not only mean prosperity for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, but also a clear message and hope for other nations in South-East and Central Europe. If Slovenia fails, they will also have weak opportunities in Hungary, either in Croatia or in Poland, or in Bosnia, but Slovenia will succeed. Recently, we do not seem to be aware of the importance of integration processes in Slovenia following the end of the Cold War. The enlargement of the European Union and its relations are then part of the same geopolitical process, which also has a spiritual dimension. It is no coincidence that the expansion of the economic and defence segment coincides with time, although we do not devote sufficient importance to this fact in Slovenia. European security and development still depend on the military presence of the United States of America in Europe. During the 20th century, the American soldiers had to intercede in Europe three times to ensure a sufficient military and political balance between the warring nations. Unfortunately, their last intervention was urgent in our former common country. In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect a new government led by the Chairman of Mag. Anton Robb, she was able to explain to citizens and citizens the importance of the decision to join NATO and that she would not merely formally answer the most frequently asked questions through brochures and online dialogues. It is important that the government is also aware that the current stability of Slovenia is conditioned by the expectations of neighbouring countries that we will soon be in a new community. Will the new Prime Minister be in charge of these tasks? Mr Rope's experience in privatisation processes, in the area of social protection, in the area of pension systems, in the area of public finances is certainly much stronger than his experience in the field of international relations of Mr Ropa in the late 1990s, especially through some neoliberal projects, which have been replaced by the Kenyan adoption of budgetary policy in recent years. This was particularly evident in the functions performed by him as Minister, i.e. the impressions of budgetary policy, which, in addition to the other mechanisms of the socio-demographic economic model, are increasingly similar to that of Sweden. Will the new Prime Minister stand in the way of such an establishment? The decision to run for Prime Minister is a major challenge for him personally, for the party he has proposed and also for the coalition he supports. A new position in the post of Prime Minister will also be an opportunity for him to act in the manner of a good coordinator, some of the most urgent tasks that are yet to be completed. Before entering the EER M2 European exchange rate mechanism, the government will have to take care of a long-term reduction in inflation below 5%. The reduction of inflation in Slovenia could be achieved through systematic changes, adaptation of economic policies and harmonised policies of controlled prices. In doing so, the government will not forget the appropriate wage policy and the transformation of the labour market, which will be most affected by the increase in unemployment. To this end, the government will have to complete what remains to be completed in the reform of the pension and health allowance, so that the state will have more room for manoeuvre when exposed to economic shocks when it joins the European Union. We expect that the government will soon adopt an appropriate anti-inflation programme that will make this process more transparent and enable the implementation of all these objectives. Government efforts in this area have not been convincing in some segments. It is also critical to see this in the European institutions. But colleagues and colleagues, say bob beans. The decision to apply for a term of office is mag. Robbery proved to be a brave politician. By this decision, he has taken on his own the burden of all the key shortcomings in the governments in which he participated as minister. He knew this would happen, but at the same time, the President of these same governments is leaving for the new post of President of the State. In this place, it's mostly a tribute to the magic of the Krajina. Robbery. As it is said, in the Slovenian People's Party, we support its decision to become a government mandate, but we expect that some projects, which were previously briefly discussed, will be implemented without delay. Allow me a few more thoughts about Slovenia as a country in which all citizens and citizens would participate in its economic development. Slovenia can only be successful if its economy is dynamic. An effective economy requires the inclusion of the whole country, so that prosperity becomes a matter of common importance, of purpose and of national pride. It is important to build on trust not only within companies, but within the whole society. With confidence, we are thinking of a tendency toward a common goal that we all strive to pursue, for we all gain from it. We have a share economy in mind. An economy where everyone should be given an opportunity where the ability to earn and advance is not just the domain of the electorate. This is an economic justification for social cohesion, for a strong society with a strong social awareness. The reasons for creating a share economy are deep. They also mention the government's commitment to rooting out unemployment, as it often leads to poverty, social exclusion, problems within the family, crime. I conclude with the conclusion that the Slovenian People's Party, as a coalition party, in our view, has been successfully involved in government policy within the framework of the resources run by the government. At the same time, we are preparing several other projects in cooperation with external experts, and we hope that we will be able to incorporate them into an additional coalition treaty in coalition negotiations. However, some other important segments of the country's operation will be spoken of by my fellow Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will now be presented by colleague Tone Anderlič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u20	Your Honor! Given the responsibility of the largest parliamentary party of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia for the demonstrated confidence in the elections in 2000, and on the basis of the agreement and proposal of the Council of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy, of course, supports the proposal put forward by the President of the State for the mandate of Mr Anton Rope. It is a half-life in the 2000/2004 mandate period and an agreement between coalition parties which have already adopted an agreement on government cooperation at the beginning of the mandate period and have now reinforced this commitment by signing an agreement on further cooperation to implement the programme by the end of this mandate period. It must therefore be said that with the support of the candidate, we are ensuring the realization of the promise promised before the elections in 2000 and, of course, from the 2000 programme, which was presented in Parliament, which has also been taken into account by voters, voters and expect the realization of this. It is clear that the two-year period has brought some urgent changes, some changes in priorities, some new emphasis, we are closer to some of the goals that we have set before the year 2000 and before the start of this mandate, but, of course, these processes are ending in the next two years and we are entering a new period, that some of the tasks still need to be carried out: to prepare two referendums to join NATO, to join the European Union. These are the responsibilities, the responsibilities of the government, the responsibilities of Parliament, and it would be wrong not to look at in this light all the activities to be carried out together, which must be carried out with the government, which will be competent and which will be chaired by the mandate holder, who I believe will be elected today. Because this is about this and because I am convinced that it is also necessary to say what is one of the key points in our programme, namely, this emphasis on tolerance, the balance of policy, the centrality of the policy of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which is capable of connecting both one and the other political groups - that is, left and right from the centre - and is therefore able to ensure, together with these parties, the Slovenians and Slovenes in particular, a life in which they can address, in particular, their problems, the realization of their projects as individuals, as groups, so it is most important that we do not allow any state authority to have problems with itself and not be able to listen to these desires and needs of citizens and citizens. And that is why I am convinced that today is the time to support the mandate holder all together. But I made it very clear that in the Liberal Democracy, this is not a dilemma. And I am sure that this month there will also be a government, which will mean a new impetus for the coming year.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. I now invite you to present the views of colleague Maria Pozsonec, the position of the Hungarian National Community, and then I will begin the debate of Members and Members. You have the floor, colleague Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All present and respected candidate for Prime Minister, Mr. Rop! Allow me, as representative of the Hungarian National Community, to present my opinion on the election of the Prime Minister. I've known Mr. Candidate since the early 1990s when he worked in various places in the government and left a lasting and positive mark on everyone. Its name is linked to certificates and the distribution of purchases when he served as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development. As Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, he implemented a new law on pension and disability insurance and social protection reforms. During that time, he led a very difficult negotiation with the unions; he always acted professionally, in a way that he could solve problems in a human way. He also acted as a finance minister to the benefit of the state. I believe that the manager of various functions has matured professionally and personally for the most demanding task in the government, for the Prime Minister. Of course, I also have certain expectations for him as future Prime Minister. I hope that his government will take over the view that the fifth corridor is of vital importance for Slovenia, and road construction in Prekmurje will soon take place. I also expect him to find mechanisms for reducing unemployment, for opening new jobs, in short, for regional development to take seriously and thus stop the depression in the lives of endangered places. So I expect that he will be a wise, understanding, socially sensitive, good Prime Minister. Finally, let me tell you how I am going to vote. I will support the candidate as a person, and I would also support him if he came from any party, because I believe he has the appropriate professional and human qualities to lead our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much, colleague Pozsonec. We have thus exhausted the part of the debate in which the parliamentary groups present their views. That's exactly what they did. I now have 28 proposals for a debate to be concluded at 3 p.m. Let me draw attention to the fact that the debate on the appointment or election of the Prime Minister - and I expect, later on, about 20, the election of the government to a specific debate where the Presidents are very difficult to reach out to the debate, thinking that someone has exceeded the scope of this debate. In this respect, the chairmen will be involved in the debates, but please, on behalf of all those who will hold the meeting, to refrain from any statements that anyone might take as an insult. This is all the limit we have in this session, in addition to the time limit. My colleague Valentin Pohorec will be given the first word, followed by his colleague Brejc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, President. A respected candidate for Prime Minister, Mr. Tone Rop! Your introductory presentation of the goals and tasks of the government, which begins its second half as you said, this time under your leadership to achieve the goals and tasks set two years ago, I think it is appropriate, bold and determined that the game will also be won. This first half didn't go well. Successes have been achieved, which are also seen beyond our borders, especially with regard to joining the European Union and NATO, and these are also our successes. There have also been other positive results that can also be considered as our common results within the country itself. Everything planned, as you yourself have said, has not been achieved in this first half of our mandate. This has also been demonstrated by the debate of the parliamentary groups so far. Of course, all that is not achieved cannot be denied. There may also be objective, weighty, excusable reasons why not. Nor can you be charged with all of this as a responsibility to yourself, since you were only one of the members of the government so far. So there are many challenges ahead of you, such as those you are imposing on yourself, which will need to be corrected, some are already late or late. The tasks mentioned in your programme are not only yours, but they are and will be the tasks of the entire team-sitting or partially renovated government. I'm sure you're a suitable candidate by profession, by experience, by your own strength, by the qualities that the Prime Minister should have. I am sure that you will take all the criticism from the debate so far as is well-intentioned, as new challenges and possible additions to your programme and work programme of the new complementary government. In order to partially replace the government with new powers in the middle of the mandate, especially in its management, I consider it an opportunity, including to answer all the questions and dilemmas raised with new results and new actions. And if this second half doesn't go well, you'll have to cut down after the replacement of another contractor. I personally trust you with this, and I wish you great success and happiness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Comrade Pohorec. Dr. Brace, a colleague of Peterle's, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! Mr Rop is part of Drnovšk's team all the time, most of which is very exposed to the part where privatisation, pension reform, debt, high inflation were involved. Mr Rob specialises in everything liberal democracy and the united list have done together in the past decade, whether one of them was in the government or not. That is why we can expect the policy of arrogance of the government to continue towards the citizens, to continue customerism, corruption, to continue the policy from hand to mouth, to continue the debt, until it is possible, until such time as the situation as we have experienced in the previous Yugoslavia, when there is no one else to lend us anything. Systematic misinterpretation and consumption will continue. The area of democracy will continue to be narrowed down and the policy of ideological and other divisions will continue. Liberal Democracy and the United List, forgive me if I don't see a very big difference, my impression that it's going to be the Liberal Democracy, so if I say so now, the United List, your young man, you're now their old man or what to say. So all the important positions in politics, economy, sport, culture, in short, in public life and in the economy, you have taken over over the past decade. This is also the case with supervisory committees in state-owned companies. The Supervisory Boards even have presidents who are ministers. The Secretary-General of the Government is even the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in such a company. Why is that so controversial? What's the big deal? Because, through supervisory committees, there is an important impact on human resources policy in these companies. This is said to be a policy with its long arm, tightening up all positions in the public sector and also in the economy. And there's another aspect we need to see. It is these politicians, ministers, the secretary-general of the government sitting on these supervisory committees, who, on the other hand, also sit as the most important people in ministries when it comes to public procurement. And then we're not surprised that one and the same are getting money from the state, from taxpayers, and the other are left empty. It's like I said before, in the field of sports, the media. Slovenia is the only country where the former President of the Communist Union holds the position of president of the Olympic Committee, at the same time the President of the Council of RTV and so on. If we look at this page, I'm sure we can find three, four presidents of sports organizations. Officials say there's no way without corruption. They say if we don't pay something or promise other services, we don't get a job. If I'm not in the right party, there's nothing. Not to mention the monopoly in the media and their distribution. I think a destructive financial policy will continue. In just a few years, we will see what these effects are like. The treasury will come just as we will be in the European Union. Just then, after what I'm listening to, a whole series of commitments that have arisen in the past decade will come into play. So we're not going to have a good time here. Of course, we listen to everything but that. In his speech today, Mr Rob mentioned a 10 per cent reduction in public expenditure. That's very commendable. I strongly support this direction, but unfortunately I cannot believe it, because the government is buying a expensive plane at the same time, I doubt that it will give up luxury cars and, of course, the purchase of villas, the maintenance of these villas for individuals and so on. Short-sighted economic policy will continue. By the way, you were talking about strategies today. But in ten years you have not been able to formulate clear strategies for the economic development of Slovenia. What are our key economic sectors that we will develop that will help us all together to survive the difficult times that await us? That's not what you're talking about. You've never even talked about it. So in ten years you have not been able to formulate one consistent economic strategy, one of Slovenia's economic development strategies. We do not know which sectors are perspectives, but we are listening to the ongoing murmuring about how difficult it is in the labour intensive sectors. And today, after all, there was nothing to say about it except a few "flossules". Mr Rob, you mentioned a democratic deficit in the European Union today. It's interesting that you don't see him at home. Democratic deficit is the worst here in this country. Of course, the ruling structure with the listening media is trying to show another picture as it really is. But the fact is that the media are mainly showing one side of the story. The other parties are only committed to create the impression that there is a thing. It's one good example, say, of this government plane. When we adopted the budget last year, we warned that the government from the core development programmes would spend a large part of the funds to buy a luxury government aircraft, and we organised a press conference, and there was no line on that. Not in the papers, not even TV. Then, when certain political forces fit to attack the Prime Minister, this happened in all media on the same day. All the newspapers and both the TVs at once. And this, of course, is a democratic picture of Slovenia and nobody sees this democratic deficit. If one political group has a monopoly in politics, culture, sport, the media, the economy and so on, this is not a sign of a developed democratic state, of course, but these are characteristics of a country we have already lived in. She had a socialist system. We thought that when we left this country, we would learn some of the more pleasant rules of the game, but unfortunately the old patterns are repeating themselves, which is also not surprising, because according to research, 83% of the old elites have a key influence in this country today. So it will have to wait for things to change on their own and then we can bet on a new one. The government's work in the field of civil society is perverse. The government is setting up or financing, does not establish, finance specific groups of civil society that are, of course, declared independent, and at the same time receive from the same government the most expensive financial assistance and act as you would like in the shadows of what you say in public. You were talking about coherent regional development. For ten years we have experienced the growth of Ljubljana. We would say, for this ten-year period, Ljubljana's capital and for the rest a bright future. In Ljubljana we are building, in Ljubljana we are inventing a cableway or I do not know what already, climbing the castle. Let's leave Ljubljana as it is today, this is the second question, the saddest capital is from my point of view, but this is, as I say, a topic for another place probably. But I mean, there's money in Ljubljana and there's no money in Ljubljana. But it is obvious that voters are thrilled that Ljubljana will continue to grow stronger and rich, while the province will remain a province, underdeveloped, poor and will continue to elect LDS and the United List. Go ahead. Spatial development. 45 years in the previous system, the authorities were unable to physically regulate these poor 20,000 square kilometres of Slovenian territory. Drnovšk's governments have failed to do so in ten years. And today we hear "in two and a half years, that's what's gonna happen." Some people wouldn't believe it. If I misunderstood Mr Rob and he meant the next ten years, then of course I apologize. But I have no doubt that the government will be in the same state of spirit as it is in this country for the next ten years. Implementation of the provinces. I support the implementation of the provinces, but when it is clear that it is an institution that will no longer cost us. However, since I know this area very well, I also know that the implementation of the provinces will cost some money. How much more than we expect is the question. But the implementation of the provinces in itself will do nothing to help the more democratic structure of the Slovenian state, but it will only mean, in the current structure of power, that you will divide some regional centres and continue to form them. Control, control over citizens will increase and democracy will no longer be in this country because of this. Why not? Because the establishment of landscapes will be a political action with a clear goal. Not by increasing democracy, but by strengthening your power. This is quite clear when we see some of the suggestions you are making, which you have not yet made public, but which you can learn about. You say, Mr Rop, "it will be necessary to adopt a national programme of culture". The Bajuk government developed such a programme on a basic basis, this was a proposal. The holder of this project was Mr Šeligo, who invited a nice number of eminent cultural creators to participate. There is therefore a national programme in the form of a proposal. But the question is, why didn't this government think it was appropriate? This is where we come up with this very simple issue of excluding the exclusiveness that you are characterizing, not you personally, but the LDS and the United List. If anyone else had written it, this program would have been adopted a long time ago. However, since he was written by Mr Sheligo and his associates, much less qualified people, than him, are less reputable people than the creators of this, people who have no dimension whatsoever to assess what the national cultural programme must be, have estimated that this programme is weak and so on. As long as the mediacritarians decide what the Slovenian cultural programme should be, then what I said before will continue, the misinterpretation of Slovenian space, of the masses. The characteristics of Slovenia will be a stupid TV sequel and devotion to TV and BTC. Electronic commerce is certainly very important. There's no doubt about that. I support the government when it comes to a number of e-government projects, as the saying goes, dealing with citizens and so on. Except for the stupidity called electronic income registration, it seems to me a real project, but it's my personal opinion and, of course, it doesn't necessarily have any support. But another question comes to me. When you talk about electronic commerce on the one hand, about the use of information and communication tools, which is certainly good, on the other hand, you forget that there are still a whole range of powerless settlements in Slovenia today. Yeah, how are those people on the nanoplane and somewhere else, even in settlements near Ljubljana, going to plug the computer into electricity if they don't have it? That's not what you're worried about. You are talking about this electronic business, which is certainly important, but you forget that at least 14% of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia cannot buy a computer, they cannot even have access to a computer, that they have no money, not for purchases or for education. He doesn't even know what it is. You're not interested in these peripheral categories. There was not a lot of talk about them in your speech, but also in the conduct of the Liberal Democracy and the United List. You promise hundreds of thousands of unemployed people computer courses. Mr. Rob, this one's really strong. You know very well as the former Minister of Labour, what the structure of these hundreds of thousands is. Most of them are 45 years old, perhaps even more years old, who have primary school or less than primary school or are in any other position to belong to a category of hard-working people. You are now offering them computer courses to be paid by the state. Mr. Rob, they need a job. But if you haven't been able to provide this in ten years, then they need to be told clearly: that's how it is, the transition has its price, you'll get some charity from the country, you'll get enough time to meet the pension requirement, and we'll get you out of this unemployment package. But you don't have that courage. You promise them computer courses because they are unemployed, they will be able to play even more and their time will be a little faster. And look. With hundreds of thousands of unemployed, however, we find that you have not encouraged economic development in a manner that is appropriate. You promise a lot, but it's not. You are talking about the effectiveness of the courts, how you will now end denationalisation quickly, and how the courts will be more effective. I'm surprised! They must be more effective, no doubt about it. But I would first like to see that the government respects the decisions of the courts, for example, that the government respects the decisions of the Court of Auditors, which finds that ministries and scandalous, even the government itself, have spent tens of billions without a legal basis. It could also be called celibacy, but we use a softer term. And you're already talking about the effectiveness of the courts. Let the government be effective and finally comply with the 1997 constitutional decisions. Five years old, and the government is nothing. You keep promising systemic solutions that aren't there. But people are waiting for the time when they can exercise their right in court. You are also talking about how difficult the financial situation is, while you are well aware that the effectiveness of the courts would result in the government having to pay large damages to citizens coming before the courts with lawsuits against the State. These lawsuits are in the drawers. These lawsuits are waiting for a while. That is why I do not believe in the objectivity of the courts of Slovenia, unfortunately. Social dispersal will continue, and differences will continue to grow. Surely the rich will be richer, but the poor will also be richer. What saddens me the most, even as a professor at the university, not only as a citizen of this country, is that you intend to close the way to education for young generations. Schools that have long been promising, even though you have not explicitly predicted them today, will sooner or later become reality. Those who know the work of the media and your governments are well aware of how the crowd prepares for this. And all these articles in the media now, even though the rectors are talking and I don't know who else is talking about it, it's just the preparation of the crowd to one day find a marriage here that will just say "let's put some tuition to make the serious study bigger". I'm not saying that the seriousness of the study is at an appropriate level today. Surely there is much to be done here, but it must also be taken into account in what difficult conditions our students and students live in, that they do not have housing, that they do not have money for transportation, for food and so on. That's what I want to hear. It's about what a young generation has the chance. In public research it turns out that young people say "good to go to Europe, we can at least get out of this mud pit, from this valley of Shentflorian, where you can't get a job if your father's one or the other, or if you're not in the right party." These are the key issues. But of course you didn't talk about it. You made a lot of promises in today's speech. Drnovšek also made a lot of promises. That's why I don't believe your promises will come true in the next two and a half years. One wonders when you have such an ambitious program, why you haven't done all of this before, or at least one piece of it. How is it that right now in these two and a half years all of this is going to happen? Of course not. It is, however, your speech, Mr Rop, also a kind of recognition and criticism of Drnovšk period, in which you yourself have played an important role. For voters, this is one of the rituals typical of non-democratic societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much, colleague Brace. I now give my word to my colleague, Loizet Peterlet, behind him, my colleague Battelli. Please, my friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable candidate for the President of the Slovenian Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! Usually, on occasions like this, there's tension, there's expectation, there's enthusiasm, even, I'd say, a festive feeling. I don't feel all of this today, and I have the impression that I'm not the only one. When the candidate spoke for the term, none applauded, which was a bit unusual. And I'm not surprised that's the case, because this isn't about the usual change of government. When the government changes, the direction changes, it smells like changes. Of course, this story is not about change. But it's just about getting the LDS tired. This is a slight redistribution of birds in the same Slovenian government tree, so that these changes will be relatively small, but because with the election of the President of the Republic of the LDS, almost everything that is politically obtained in this country needs to be done at least technically, because the Prime Minister's seat cannot be empty. And now we have two presidents of the state and almost two Prime Ministers. So the questions raised by Tone Rob and the program presented by him are about a man who undoubtedly has some great abilities, as well as a number of experiences, as you have already told the speakers before me. However, this is not about Toneto Ropa, it is not about Janez Drnovska, it is about how or who determines the line of Slovenian politics and Slovenian changes over the last ten years, so this is basically about LDS. In closing words, I will try to further comment on this fact. The candidate spoke clearly, smoothly, technocratically, as the mandate holders usually say. He has repeatedly pronounced himself "more", "more" for "more justice", "less centralisation", or "more decentralisation". I agree with those who have already said that there is no problem at the level of words; those words are programming words; they are also kind of nice words; the mandate holder must not afford others. I wouldn't have any problem with those words if someone else spoke them that wasn't from LDS. But since they're spoken by a LDS man, I have a problem with their credibility. In fact, any "more" said by the candidate for the mandate, or any "more" means that so far there has been a little less or a little bit less, or something wrong or something bad, in short, in these years, ten years of Drnovsk. The LDS government, obviously something was wrong, that we need to say that we need more social justice, that we need accelerated road construction and similar things. If our social policy were to be okay, then we would not be talking about the need for more; if we were to treat citizens all right, we would not be talking about the need for greater obedience for citizens. Apparently, the attention so far has been weak. Let us look in this spirit at the question of decentralisation, which I have understood as one of the key programming points of the candidate for the mandate. The candidate explicitly, explicitly, expressed himself for decentralisation. And what is my credibility problem? Who's been centralizing this country for ten years? Who stopped the project of local self-government, which boosted the development of Slovenia? Who voted against the new congregations, including those who had all the marriage grounds to become new congregations? Who has already centralised a relatively decentralised tax administration that now people travel long distances and, despite all computer techniques, regulate matters in large centres rather than set up in a few minutes at a nearby municipal centre or a place where the tax administration is exposed. Who is responsible for the years of growing differences between Ljubljana and other Slovenian provinces? You don't have to ask Jonas, the answer to all the questions is the same. LDS, ladies and gentlemen. And the last time I picked up a hitchhiker who was hitchhiking from White Krajina against Ljubljana, I asked him, "What are you going to do, young sir, when you're done studying?" He said, "I'm going to move to Ljubljana, I'm going to join the LDS, and I'm going to do my best for the state service." This is the advice of peripheral landscapes for people who would like to do something constructive in this country. Ladies and gentlemen! I am, of course, opposed to this advice, and if this concrete work continues this way, we will soon pay a heavy price. The LDS has dangerously centralised this country. And who's going to believe the same line to start decentralizing from now on? But if we believe that, then I think we're very yellow, not all greens together. Of course, as has already been said, I see several more clients in the same line with the United List on their foreheads. And in two years it is impossible to do so, whether it is written by Minister Rob or otherwise, or it has even greater managerial skills, ten years of wrong development in regional policy cannot be resolved by the next government, whoever will lead it, but at least by the LDS government, which has obviously gone through all formal regional development strategies into a strong policy of strengthening certain cities, specifically the centres of Slovenia, which, of course, belong to certain specificities, but not to the privilege against others. This difference between Ljubljana and the rest of Slovenia, is unacceptable, is unfair, is unacceptable and must be fought against. Let's also see the highway construction. Mr Tone Rop also stressed in this direction. If someone from LDS says that it is necessary to speed up, or that the thing is actually running fast and fast. Yes, but who is to blame for the fact that so far it has been different, that we must now speed up? Who is to blame that there is no lower highway, one of the key strategic lines of highway development in Slovenia. Who's to blame that we don't have a strategic highway long before Koper? Who's to blame for the gas toll gone? What's gone or gone, it's gone, the so-called integral budget has already ended up in a kiss, a redistribution of funds, it's taken where it is, and there's still something about gasoline, and it's done where it's not. And we have an ever-increasing item that allows the government to move billions from this purpose to another purpose without parliamentary control without the influence of Parliament. The candidate also mentioned denationalisation. I myself have been very careful about this especially because we are asked not only at home but also at home. He has announced a new implementation plan. After ten years of marriage, they will hire those who have been robbed of the revolution long ago that many of these victims are no longer alive, so the government will come with a new plan. Not the first, I'm afraid not the last. But instead of being carried out a long time ago, despite all the difficulties that they have consciously included in this law, there is no doubt that much more could be done with some changes. To talk today about the implementation plan, instead of just carrying it out consistently, is, in my view, the sand in the eyes of those who were in a revolutionary way possessed and otherwise taken away. So these people don't expect, and these are quite a few thousand, if I'm not mistaken, not counting on plans, on coordination, on moving these coordinates from one ministry to another, which was a game before the European Union for a while, but counting on the quick implementation of the law. Next thing, inflation. I have credibility issues here, too. For years and years, the same political line does not want, does not know or does not allow inflation to come to European level. This is also discussed in clear progress reports, including the last, fifth, which says that the revised mechanism for the indexation of salaries and pensions and the de-indexation of short-term interest rates is an important but late step in anti-inflation policy. For this delay, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the opposition's fault. Well, it's not a good idea for inflation to get down here. However, if it can, as I would say, enter the European Union within a month or a few months later from 8 to 4, we will really wonder how inflation in this country is identified or determined. I think that a number of years had passed by and that inflation had continued to swim there around 8 and this year shows no different. Here, too, we have heard the previous Prime Minister explain that this is the fault of oil or the price movement of petroleum derivatives, as if it were driven by oil derivatives only in Slovenia, while elsewhere it would be driven to, I don't know, coal or something. In short, there is no such explanation for inflation. When the price of gasoline rises, this does not necessarily mean the percentage of the increase that we have. I mention, of course, the debt. Our government representatives like to say that everything is within limits, that the matter is not problematic, that they are even more in debt than we are. Today, it is even a case of what is happening with some key countries of the European Union. This is not an appropriate explanation for me, this is not an argument for me, it is an easy fact, but it is not an argument. I am concerned about the pace at which our debt goes forward and what happens after 1996 with the deficit in the state treasury. These are heavy numbers, these are burdens that are owed to our craftsmen. This means that it is a very weak will to save something, but it is still a broad-based policy which, of course, leads us into a public financial deficit. However, we are obliged, as the specialist for these matters has repeatedly said, by Mr Andrej Bajuk, President of New Slovenia, to be in charge of daily needs, not for long-term development needs, but also for these, but also for daily needs, I think he once said, for everyday potatoes. I would like to know whether it is possible to survive in the European Union with a different understanding of the calendar. Or we'll have a calendar for revenue, one for expenditure. We have already had a financial year or budget year of 13 months on the revenue side, if I recall correctly. I don't think you can make the state's financial statements by changing the calendar, but by applying the European rules of the game here as well. I want, of course, and I am pleased by the emphasis placed by Mr Tone Rop on the situation in which we are now, and I agree with him, not only that it is a very difficult situation for us, when we move from the role of waiting in some entry waiting room into the role of co-forming a common European policy. Our question for this government and for Parliament is whether we are well prepared for this. I am very pleased that we have achieved this political maturity, that we have worked together in the European Union's accession project to the position and opposition together, once in this role, once in a while. This has also been taken into account by our partners. I wish we could keep working together. Of course, we have many different views. Mr. Brace has already pointed out some things. If Mr candidate for a mandate holder says he wants Slovenia to adopt the highest standards of developed European countries, then I would like to see these standards brought together in some way. Also about tolerance. The differences we now have between the regions, between the city and the countryside do not speak for high standards, but for a departure from the European line. High inflation is clearly not in line with these standards. The fact that we do not have one conservative or opposition diary does not refer to developed European standards that we do not have a parliamentary TV channel where elected representatives of the people could see and hear, we do not have. And we're just trapped in a media situation that sometimes finds someone, sometimes overlooks them, or doesn't find them, and doesn't show them. And in the ten years of LDS, we haven't been able to pick up a single parliamentary channel that everyone around us has around us. France even has a Senate and a parliamentary channel. There's a special TV on the other side of the line. We managed to install four cameras in ten years. I'm worried about that condition. If we are speaking with high words about European standards, then it would be good for us to also realize them, whoever is in power for some time. I would like to ask Mr Tonet Rope two more questions. Very specific. One is the relationship with Croatia. With great expectation, almost with the pump, it has been announced in the last elections that all open issues will now be settled because political forces are related in power in Croatia and Slovenia, in short, a new era is expected. In this fall, he took great responsibility for the Prime Minister, went around a little foreign minister and said he would also address the border issue. The matter ended with an accident, and we have the worst relations with our neighbor, with whom we have never had such a bad relationship. I am curious, sir, about the future Prime Minister, whether you will change the policy here and give the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is the first one to take care of relations with others, full of authority to do so, or do you intend to continue with the Prime Minister's policy so far. We certainly want to succeed as soon as possible in regulating relations with Croatia. However, another specific issue concerns the issue of the European Union. We will probably take the last steps very soon. The relationship between the government and parliament will need to be regulated in line with the new facts. In this regard, I would like to ask in concrete terms what the government has in mind or when it will present to Parliament its view of the future relationship between the government and Parliament. Parliament is convinced that we would follow the Scandinavian model, which means strong parliamentary engagement, a strong supervisory role and, in fact, the mandate of the government when it plays a legislative role in the European Council with its own available votes. I am particularly putting this on my heart because I think it is important for all of us, with what quality of the organisation we will jointly regulate European affairs. I would have finished. Like I said, it's not about whether we're saving this candidate or this former Prime Minister. The purpose of this house and the National Assembly of Slovenia is to take care of Slovenia. And if we're saving something, then we're saving Slovenia. Therefore, the key question is not who will be the LDS mandate holder, but it is our key question, the question of all Slovenia when will we replace the LDS power. There is no change within the LDS that could lead Slovenia to the success of Slovenia as a member of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u29	Thanks, buddy Peterle. Before I invite my colleague Battelli to the floor, I ask the candidate Mr Mag. Robbery, given that he was asked a few questions if he wants to answer now or at the end. At the end. You have 10 minutes to answer or comment on the performances of our colleagues and colleagues. Roberto Battelli now has the floor, followed by his colleague Kangler. Please, Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. A reputable candidate for the term of office! I will support you in this candidacy. We share our own personal and Italian national community's view of the final placement of Slovenia in the European space you presented in your opening act. The Italian National Community has cooperated with all its efforts in the project, along with all other factors, political and other, in this project, the great emancipation project of Slovenia, which has been taking place in the last, at least, 12 years, in a responsible and fully loyal manner. Of course, this community is proud of its language and its culture at the same time. In this sense, it will continue to work, despite the pressures or the spread of the anti - Italian emotions that we are constantly witnessing to them. No one, especially those who act as public function holders and who act in public, has the right to forget or neglect the past, which is actually much deeper, broader and more complex than anyone may think. Anyone who has a public function and who performs public functions is, of course, primarily responsible for the future and for building such a future of new generations, which will not possibly contain any of the traumas that have shaken the world in the past. A reputable candidate for the term of office! In your presentation, you mentioned the necessity of internal dialogue and cooperation in deciding and achieving the priorities of our society. However, I must say that this dialogue is, as a rule, not between the government and the national communities, despite and beyond the arrangements in force in this country. There's been an absolute lack of dialogue lately. I am sure that you will also contribute to the improvement of the situation in this area, as the government has the institutional resources and services responsible for this. This should, of course, apply to all proposals for laws and other acts adopted by the Government concerning national communities, and in particular to the preparation of a budget on which the life and functioning of national communities are almost exclusively dependent. In the belief that the situation in this area will improve and comply with our regulation, I wish you all the best in your further work.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Kangler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Respectable candidate for Prime Minister, honourable Members and honourable Members! In accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will also speak myself, given that I have listened carefully to the candidate's presentation as Prime Minister, because I have a number of words left in my ears. He said "a coalition of tolerance and respect" - a coalition of tolerance and respect. That is precisely the point, and since some of the other interlocutors have talked a lot about the situation within the coalition, I would also like to touch on this issue myself. Dear Presidential candidate, even before I decide whether my vote is intended or not, I would like you to answer some questions for me as well. At the time of the entry of the Slovenian People's Party into the coalition, my vote was on the side of the Prime Minister. In all the events that we and our fellow Members have experienced in these two years, I can say that the Prime Minister did not have a proper relationship with Members. It is very important what your attitude towards the legislative branch of power will be. If a member of the Prime Minister writes a letter four times about the problems in the environment from which he comes to the National Assembly, and the Prime Minister does not answer these questions, I am very concerned, especially when it comes to questions that could in any way affect the economy that is the largest cancer in our country: the Maribor swimming pool. Of course, the Secretary-General of the Government is also very responsible here. During this two-year term, we have also organised our own delegations twice and have also collected signatures twice. This government or part of the government has failed to respect, but at least it has examined the views of those Members who have decided to sign for the opinion they have expressed. To give a signature means to express your opinion by means of your public signature. And if more than 46 Members express their views, and the Prime Minister reacts differently and injuries Members, I do not think that this is the image of a real Prime Minister. Of course, here I am referring mainly to the holding company in which Drava power plants were involved, where one of the LDS ministers, Mr Kopač, spoke publicly that no North-East Slovenia, Maribor, has any personnel capable of running this holding. And that the holding company must have its seat in Ljubljana because he will be present as minister twice a week, three times at this holding company. Today we may wonder whether this is true or true, once a month or for two months at this holding company or not. I do not want to focus these problems on regional problems. However, your emphasis, respected colleague Rob, was on decentralisation. That is why I am speaking because I believe that Members coming to this national assembly from different parts of Slovenia should also be heard and joined. As for the signatures concerning Interbrew and some other events that have occurred more or less in Parliament, we have already spoken. And also there, frankly, I am in some way pleased that we have been able to have a personal discussion with the candidate for Prime Minister on this subject, to exchange views and to behave in some way as a politician in politics after all these events. And this thing that's happened, it's taken professionally, not on a personal level. Relation to national interests. Dear candidate, I am interested, given that the Prime Minister is the first to strengthen the Slovenian domestic economy. It has to strengthen the Slovenian economy, the domestic economy, if we want to reduce the percentage of inflation on the one hand, we increase economic growth on the other. In a way, it was agreed that the first financial pillar of this country, Ljubljanska Banka, would be sold. Today I would like to know whether you personally support the merger of two banks, the New Bank of Credit and the Postal Bank. And in this way we ensure that every country in Europe and in the world has one bank that has an impact on this bank or a co-ownership share that is so strong and so large that it can decide, at least indirectly through the supervisory councils, on the policy of operation of this bank. Do you support or do you not support the merger of these banks? The next question is asked mainly in your opinion on decentralisation. The fact is that in recent years centralisation has become so concentrated that too much economic, economic, financial and political capital has concentrated in one place. Statistics show that there are too many differences between the two regions. Given that I come from the Maribor region, statistics are so surprising, so exciting that unemployment is at the same level as it was. In the first place of the municipality Ruše, the second Pesnica, in the third place of the municipality Maribor. That the natural movement of the population by municipalities with Maribor and the surrounding area is in a negative state. In 2000, 381 more people died in Maribor each year than were born in the same year. In all these municipalities surrounding Maribor, this number is negative. Also, the student population does not grow through permanent residence. Net personal income for the period 2000/2001 is such that there are differences between one and the other centres up to 30 or 40,000 net tolls per family member or employee. Maybe someone doesn't think much, but if we look at how much this is per employee per year, it's 400,000, the second family member is 800,000 per family, and if someone works and lives in one center or the other end of Slovenia, they earn 800,000 tolars per year less than they would have worked in another center. So my question is this: how are you going to implement this decentralisation programme? In what way? Today we have eighteen agencies in the heart of Ljubljana that have been established in accordance with the European Union's guidelines and guidelines. All eighteen agencies are based in Ljubljana. No one will convince me that neither of these agencies would find their seat in Maribor, Murski sata, Ptuj, Slovenj Gradc, Koper, New Town or Nova Gorica. It is very important, as you personally as Prime Minister, how you feel about this phenomenon, which has occurred over the past three, four or five years and is very hot. This phenomenon, the centralisation that is taking place in this country, has a profound impact on some statistics that are mainly about demographics. I have made many calls in this National Assembly regarding personnel. I think that even those who come from northeastern Styria, Prekmurje or Koroška must and we are also entitled to some of the functions that are shared politically in Ljubljana. No one will convince me that no government party has its own staff elsewhere so capable to be able to lead any function that is placed in the hierarchy of the government. If the government appoints 1,100 people by 2002 and if we compare these data statistically and analytically across the permanent residence, we can find that a negligible percentage of people have been employed from around the first centre. And I don't want to talk about it anymore. I hope you will answer that question as well. I come from a city where the city of Maribor was a flower of economy throughout Yugoslavia. Many times I am surprised at some Members who mock when they come from other parts of Slovenia, when I talk about the city of Maribor and when we talk about the economic crisis that hit us. But you all forget, as well as the government and some individuals in the government, that Maribor and the economy in Maribor are the largest giants: Metalna, Livarna, There, the textile industry was the flower of the Yugoslav economy. Maribor was building Belgrade, Maribor was building Ljubljana and could also list. From this industrial pool, the whole industry was powered throughout Yugoslavia and also later or in Slovenia. I think Maribor needs to find its opportunity and its place in this phenomenon. Maribor is a university place. Unemployment is at the highest level. Through the more coherent regional development that the government is preparing, the government must find suitable institutions, appropriate programmes to reduce these differences between the two regions. First of all, I'd like to hear a distinguished candidate out of your mouth. The next question I ask myself and personally I want to ask is, do you personally support the establishment of a medical university in Maribor under the auspices of the University of Maribor or not? We've talked about this a lot. However, those who are involved in this process of establishment in any way, we find that there is only one obstacle not to the establishment of this university - at the very top of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Even those members of the Liberal Democracy who come from Maribor or the surrounding area can say that the University of Maribor has prepared a program at such a level that it has all the conditions for the medical faculty to establish. The question of the Secretary-General of the Government is also a very important question that I am asked, a respected candidate. Given that you said in your performance that the coalition would have to be equally respected by the coalition's signed treaty of tolerance and respect, it is my view that so far we have not been partners within the coalition. Although it will be funny for someone, in human resources and other matters they should be equal partners. When the Slovenian People's Party decided to join the government in 2000, it assured the Presidency that the Secretary-General of the Government would be someone other than the respected Mirko Bandelj, given that he had been suspended in the previous mandate with political interpretation. This agreement, which was given to our then President of the Party, respected by Franz Zagozno, was not followed within the Liberal Democracy. Given that I will slowly finish my performance as Prime Minister - days ago you also visited a very strong pillar, the institution of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Mail Republic of Slovenia, which is established in Maribor. I ask you how you will react, given that I have received information that a negative opinion has been issued by the Court of Auditors. How will you react if you do anything to change some things at the top of Post Slovenia, especially in the management of the Post, given that you have put back the retired Director of Post at the explicit request of the Liberal Democracy, who has now earned a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors. There's been some very strange things going on at the Post Office lately. Relations within the management of the Post Office and some other staff that operate, which have a strong influence on this public institution, which currently has a reputation among citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, show that the existing director has replaced almost all business directors - the director in Maribor, Mr Pernak [[Lost a lawsuit with him.]] , the Director of the Business Unit in New Town, Mr Kapš, in Ljubljana, Mr Bec, again in Ljubljana, Mr Renko, Mrs Kolmanič Jelko in Maribor, who was the Director of the Business Unit. I hope that it will not happen that her daughter, who has a high education, will come, because of such and other events, to work on a "chalter" to replace quite a few business secretaries, from Rosade Statmberger, to Bojana Razdevšek, which are known maribor names, also political, that she wants to replace with 1.1.2003 before the retirement of the director of the Nova Gorica business unit, that he has replaced the business director of the Murski Sobota business unit to replace recently the director of the Strelec finance sector, who has always been faithful to them. Dear Prime Minister, the department minister covering Post Slovenia, will also have to change this rivalry within the post office on the basis of these statements that I have now made. But I think the problem is running the mail. To finish my thoughts. If you are elected Prime Minister, I want you to strengthen the Slovenian economy to make such decisions that will benefit all of us who live in the Republic of Slovenia and ultimately, as a government coalition, bear responsibility for the functioning of the state authorities. Slovenia needs a constructive government, with constructive opposition, but unfortunately, I can say it is not. If we had a constructive opposition, the government would have acted differently and would have been more constructive. I'll be very happy to hear your answer. On the basis of your answer, my decision will be as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz onion has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable candidate for Prime Minister, honourable fellow Member and honourable fellow Members! Let me say that I personally do not have these questions or the problems that Mr Kangler has as a coalition partner, and of course I do not have the same problems and issues as my opposition fellow Members and fellow Members, given that I am acting as an independent Member. In view of the fact that, more recently, my name has also been used several times by some parliamentary groups or individual Members, or by policies on the ground, let me say that I am deciding on today's candidate and will decide on my own, of course, also on the basis of the answers. It's just that it's not a difficult task for me. I personally, as a Member, appreciate Mr Rop's work as Minister of Finance, but I have met him in particular in his previous term as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Let me say, of course, before the entire Slovenian public and also to you fellow Members and here in our Parliamentary Chamber, that in some ways it is my moral duty, to judge me personally to Mr Rope, I can say that the person who could listen to both individual municipalities and individual Members who have a clear word of reply and also a clear answer to the resolution of certain problems. That will also be one of my reasons why I will support Mr Rob. I support him as Toneto Ropa, but I do not support the candidates of his candidacy. I am confident that the new Prime Minister will be able to make his own personal assessment, which he also introduced into the work of the Minister of Finance, which I personally assess that unconstructive criticisms that are falling all the time, can personally assess that certain transparent transparency in the use of financial resources has improved, especially in the sense of the municipalities, because as Minister of the Ministry of State, he has demanded more extensive requirements to be submitted by the municipalities so that certain funds can also draw on them. However, as a Member, I think that a specific ministry, which will naturally be attended by the new Prime Minister, needs to be replaced for success by certain resources, particularly ministers, because of certain ministries, and yet there is no clear, transparent review, in the outflow of certain resources, particularly in the regional development of our country. And this is one of those questions. Mr. Candidate, Mr. Mag. Robbery, whether you will improve or take measures to improve regional development, in particular those areas, regions that, according to your estimates, especially the ministries of the economy, are estimated not to be in need of those regions, which are assessed by you, especially by governments and ministries, by their economic growth. This is a region that is needed for smaller aid, especially for the economy, agriculture, which would mean that these regions would move very quickly to the regions of European advanced countries, which would also mean for the country itself the growth of income, the very gross income in the economy. Next question. The growth and growth of the development of municipalities is a clear last indicator in these seven years, which has also accelerated certain developments. Will you stand for funds to rise or fall? It's just that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Onion, I think the question
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u36	It's just this supplement. It is only a matter of imposing additional financial burdens on municipalities with certain laws that we have adopted in the National Assembly. Here it will be necessary if we want the municipalities to move forward in this development, so that certain funds can also be set. I'm just finishing up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u37	Mr. Onion, I'm sorry. I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u38	The success of the Prime Minister will be, not only in a coalition of respect and tolerance, but also in honest work. Let me add that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u39	Mr. Onion, if you'll excuse me, I have to. You'll be over in a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u40	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. A nice welcome to the candidate for the term, Mr. Mag. Tonet of the robbery. Members and Members of the Commission I would expect that, after the Council of State has imposed its own rules of procedure, which also provided for a restriction on the control of the opposition over the work of the authorities and, for example, for the forecasting of the questions sent, I would expect reciprocity from the candidate for Prime Minister, who, among other things, is the Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy, who imposed this Rules of Procedure, namely that he would submit the programme guidelines to the Prime Minister at least two hours before the start of the meeting of the President-in-Office. Now, after what I've heard, I know the reasons why this wasn't put on the table. In fact, no programme was submitted. The programme that we Members have been expecting, which would represent a significant discontinuity with what has been happening with the country in recent years, with public finances, important economic areas. However, I believe that a candidate for a mandate-holder for such a programme should present the programming guidelines here to the Chamber of Members. By the way, on Friday, the editorial in Del, titled "Chronical Prince". In fact, we were all aware that Mr candidate had long been quoted as actually a crown prince. I have named Mr Rob for two years since Mr Drnovsk's illness in a friendly conversation a little for fun the heir to the throne. We've always had a friendly conversation. I hope that's the way it's gonna go on, on you. Now I am addressing him as a candidate and, of course, I will consistently call him. However, in the fact that journalists also felt through the expression of the Crown Prince some dynasism, some monarchism, that the candidate for successor was determined by unconventional principles, shows that there was a lot going on in the background. If we are talking about a Crown Prince who was aware of this, we would expect some young rulers, when they take power as their predecessors, to produce a dimension and vision of an enlightened ruler. That didn't happen today. We have received in these guidelines a matter that is wrapped in more cellophane, decorated with a more colorful pentula, but it is within when we unfold this, less content. It is only about preserving the monopoly of power and all positions in the hands of only one option, one party, which has recently led to absurdity in the recruitment. I would expect that these guidelines will cover answers to the future, which his party has also promised with the candidate with the election posters. This is the right place for answers to the future. We are faced with a different practice. Even retrograde, they assume that the budget is to be taken as a derogation from the government, which has not yet happened in Europe. As we look to the future, we are trying to remember how the candidate, and especially the monopoly master in this country, the LDS, responded to the present what the candidate has done in the past. Undoubtedly, this is a highly qualified candidate who has held the most decisive positions in all ten years. He was Secretary of State for Privatisation, Minister of Social Affairs and Labour, who led the pension reform, was the Finance Minister in the last government of Mr Drnovska. I would like to ask Mr candidate whether there has been a so-called hole in the privatisation of the certificate hole, in the area of pension reform, in the area of the pension gap and in the Ministry of Finance, in the area of the budget gap, in the area of the budget deficit. We're facing three shortages, three holes. Was he being obstructed by this party's surroundings? I believe he was, because his abilities are such, I think, that he could've pulled it off without planning on precisely certain interests. Let us be clear about this; that is, whether it can happen, or whether it is justified even to fear that the inertia would follow now that it will be responsible for the entire of Slovenia, for the whole of Slovenia, in order to make Slovenia a hole in the European space - a space of general deficits. How do we make sure this doesn't happen? And now that we're responding to this last act, we'd like to know more about the candidate's role in the sale of family porcelain, banks. We know the government was rather uncritical about selling the most important banks at the time. Today, Mr Rop offered a slightly different new pillar - credit bank, post office. However, the proposal was offered during an election campaign in Maribor and had political dimensions. And so far we do not believe in this proposal; there must be firm guarantees that this is done so that something else is not done behind the scenes. Furthermore, the role of the candidate in the debates on the so-called national interest and the actual national interest was not explained. Mr candidate mentioned it today in another context, in the context of European policy. And it is symptomatic that, in his performance, in his guidelines, he retained significantly more in foreign policy, which was considered the so-called Achilles' fifth candidate, than in those where he participated actively in the last period, where the solutions to the current practice are a direct consequence of the candidate's action. In this national interest, there has even been a conflict within the coalition between Members, we know that we have listened through computers to each other's threats to how he will sue, with Ambassador Kangler. I don't know if that's where the word was kept. We don't know that. These are questions that the candidate should certainly be aware of. He should be aware that he has been proposed by his party as captain of the national team. However, today's behaviour means more than that it is a proposal for a captain or middle attacker of the club team to protect club interests, client interests and coalitions, not particularly state interests. Nothing has been said about how he will fight customerism in this country, which he mentioned in his own kind, even the previous Prime Minister, Mr Drnovšek. However, today we have heard and read something that political criteria prevailed in the recruitment of the minister. Mrs Čokova, current Minister of Education, stated in her statement to the Office here that ministers can be judged on the basis of professional and political criteria and that political decisions, political criteria, have now prevailed. This is a very serious matter. Directly within the party itself, its own parties, to differentiate people, not according to abilities, but according to political and ideological criteria. Where is this taking us? From practice I could mention two positive things. A good start for Mr. candidate in privatisation or in these fights regarding the Triglav Insurance Company, and also when he became the finance minister, that he opened that dead man from the closet, that 13-month revenue collection. Admitting the deficit, admitting it. But it stopped in the middle of the road. The insurance company Triglav clearly shows that it will not be saved in favour of the state, that there will be a number of Falcons, value in the Falcons that they tried to bring to some private accounts, remain in that role and that the state will not have this opportunity and will not share this property, this money. I am aware that then, Mr Minister, the current candidate, was forced to act harshly. Without that property, he'd be politically dead. This would point to the catastrophic consequences of the state treasury. But now I don't see any more effort. Now it seems enough for the then principal to just sit in another chair and direct and command from that chair. I would expect a clear definition today. Look, it's stopped. At this insurance company Triglav we rescued Minister Rop on the property subcommittee, on the financial committee. I witnessed the crackling of the teeth of government members when, in the end, the opposition forced them to identify themselves in favour of national state interest. Mr. candidate, can you give us guarantees that you forced your parliamentary group to drop the pressure on the constitutional court, which is what's going on? That would be smart and useful to hear. Since there were no such clear answers, it is no wonder that the entire opposition has united itself that such a programme cannot be supported. This does not mean that he does not have a positive opinion on the candidate, but what he presented today is not that. I also congratulate Mr Pečet on the fact that he has become the strongest in the party, that his position has prevailed, that we cannot support the candidate and such a programme. This is a positive shift on the political scene. And that he threw away the games of Jelinčič - Rob. In fact, answers are expected today. Responses in relation to regional development. Why didn't this marriage work? Why are we facing such catastrophic situations on the outskirts of Slovenia, Prekmurje, Styria, Sočki valley, Brkini? Do these people have any future in these regions? You have not defined anything, Mr candidate, about the law or referendum on the return of deposits to telecommunications, despite the fact that people have plebiscitely signed and that they are aware that in all other areas of the robbery state property is being robbed and that they have the right to have what they have invested returned to them. You have not identified yourself as to what would be the position of the current Minister of Gantar, who opposed this just return. You mentioned concern for the Slovenian minority, but not explicitly. It is clear, however, that the government and the finance ministry have not implemented the law on the communication of Slovenian programmes in place. Our natives still can't hear and have no signal from Slovenian television and can't hear Slovenian radio. That's outrageous. This is what we are traveling the Slovenians in place, and that is what a government and also a candidate for Prime Minister should be primarily aware of. You didn't make it to the medical school in Maribor. This is an absolute necessity. But I want a positive ID. The worst part is that you did not define yourself until the Danish offer of a ten-year moratorium on the sale of property land in Slovenia. I am aware that this is a strong non-trust of the previous government or of Mr Drnovšk, but it is necessary to define itself to this primary national interest. I expect the candidate to be identified. For God's sake, that's the primary thing! Will we now reject the good prospect we have for the future because of our own mistakes, mistakes in our own government? And we will not be aware of the strong sensitivity of our territory as they tighten our territory with their hands on all sides. The candidate for a term of office, the candidate for Prime Minister, is obliged to define himself for this, which is of primary national interest. I also expected Mr. Candidate to be identified by Kopač's statements, and I know that at the time he did, we had in our hands, against the signing of the contract, the Copač, the Ministry of the Environment, Koto, where the candidate wrote that it was a harmful, illegal contract. But will they follow the sequences? Now you have a tactic and you are capable of performing sequences. You mentioned in your performance that we must encourage and release all development potentials. At the same time, with your statement that you are advocating for a large academy of science, I have somehow realized that there will be less money for research and less money for science to be autonomous without money. That's not a good perspective. Our experts, our researchers already find that Slovenia is becoming a technological colony. Those of you who have accepted the status of the technology colony, I tell you, this is the worst promise for Slovenia. And here, Mr. Candidate, I expect your positive legitimacy, a positive conversion, but not by lacquering the practice so far, covering with a cellophane, a wrap of what has been done so far. I wish you a Mr. Candidate as Tonet Rope, mag. Tonet Robbery from Vodice, a lot of success ahead. At the same time, I cannot give you my support for the program that you presented as captain of an LDS team here, because this team will not score. This team is going to kill cars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dr. Joseph Bernick has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! First of all, I congratulate you on this choice, even though I know that sometimes you may regret going to some kind of pet. But I've heard about you since I was in the United States. And my younger colleagues at a Chicago law firm told me that they met you in Washington and how cute you were and how brilliant. And I believed all of it, and I still believe it today. But that was before I heard of the next river that still holds, I was never disappointed: Nothing happens in this country by chance. And it actually is. Nothing happens by accident, everything is well planned, arranged and so on. And if a man looks back from his experience, he sees that that hasn't changed. In any case, you have offered us a very interesting menu today. Perfect and so on. But if one looks at some of these things, he sees that this food is already quite old, cold and so on and there is no special news. It is said that we will have to take a rather critical view of this restaurant and see what you will bring in. I'm not going to list the things that have already been said. But I'm interested in the following. You were responsible for talking to the International Monetary Fund, and you also had financial relations with the European Union. And, say, if you look at the report of the International Monetary Fund since 4 March this year, you will see that in a good way it is said quite a bit about what Slovenia has not done in the financial field. I remember when this delegation came to the country - I don't remember exactly when, but it was probably this year or last year - and, among other things, two things remained in my memory and are still very current today. One is that he asked the head of this mission and said, "You're gonna have to tell your people that you're gonna have to tighten the belt," and he said, "who's gonna say that?" And he didn't get that answer at any level of government on the left. The other thing was that he said he couldn't find out what the funds that were actually set up and multiplied like some, well, I can't get another word like a rat, and there were so many, he didn't know how many, and it's probably one of those things that God doesn't even know. But they couldn't figure out what was actually going on. Of course, these people are very polite, even the report write extremely politely and do not show any teeth, of course, Slovenia is also a member of the International Monetary Fund, it says, a shareholder there, so they cannot beat too much by their shareholders. But they did say something. And now that we see what happened to Elan, we know why there was no answer. In fact, these funds - and perhaps you will agree with me - were no different than the fact that the money somehow circled and covered a lot of things, which would not be good for the public to see. In any case, I'd like to know if your successor will follow this, but he arranged these things because it looks like you couldn't handle them during your term of office. I've identified you as an optimist several times because you're always looking to the future and you only see bright spots. Your budgets are also largely so that "growth will be big, inflation will be small" and so on. Even your UMAR, which will now be in your office, disagrees with you urgently. However, as far as this is concerned, I can immediately say that some of these offices do not belong at all to the office of the Prime Minister, but should be independent. For example, UMAR, this is a statistical service, and of course this statistical service is a very delicate matter, for it is then reported to the public. The pressure on her, I don't know, but there's a chance. The other thing that doesn't belong to your office is the Anti-Corruption Office. It is absolutely unacceptable that the Prime Minister has an office with him where he is supposed to follow the corruption of various civil servants and then he can decide what he wants. That's not democratic. In addition, you will have to break up the Office of the Secretary-General, because Mr Bandelj seems quite tired and I think he should be helped to get these offices out of this. This is absolutely not a country in the country. [[...]] And look at the budget, how much money this office gets. No public responsibility and for that thing. Let me also say this: I would like to, and now you have a unique opportunity to become Prime Minister for all Slovenians, that this has not been so far, nor at the state level, nor at the government level. We have two kinds of citizens. Here on one side you have everything, let's say you have your own truth, all the services are actually available to those who believe this truth are reserved for them. Those who don't, either doubt it or hope to say it, are absolutely cut off from all of it. If you don't believe me, look at your data, and you'll find that out. What's more, you'll probably wonder for yourself, more than I do about this thing. There's one more thing I'm going to mention that no one else is likely to. This is a human rights issue. Nobody looks like that, not the Ombudsman. The last time I sat here was when the European Guardians had their own assembly. When I listened to that, I said, "Yeah, where am I, it's the wrong country for me, if it's really what these gentlemen are telling, it's something amazing." Okay, you're coming and your colleagues are coming from a company that's been protected and today you're also in this club that has no access to it. But you have a unique opportunity to prove otherwise. This will be difficult, given your colleagues, the customer and so on, but you have a unique opportunity to come to the history of Slovenia. In fact, it will be necessary to consider how to make all citizens equal: equal before the law, equal before the government and so on. We are simply some of us are not equal. That's why we want the second wind to come, you're capable, you're energetic so far, and I hope you're also righteous, just in this most basic human sense. I want you to think about it. Now that our government or our country is coming into the European Union, many things will have to be changed. And if you start changing them now, even in this humanitarian sense, it will be so much easier for us to stay. Otherwise we'll have problems. What can I say? And this is about one case that I want to mention to you, because your ministry is involved. I've already tabled five times for a single budget amendment. It was a matter of adding another one between thirteen or fourteen non-profit organisations. And you know what? I didn't get an answer on the board, I didn't get it or here. Why? It was said there was no money for it or anything. And I know that's not the reason. But there's simply an ideological block where no one moves from. But I think as a Member I would have the right to know this directly and then to show it to the world. That's why I want you to change your mind. Clearly, this has not been within your reach now, it seems in your responsibility, but it seems to me that it will be necessary to think more broadly than your predecessor and slightly less machiovelist. I wish you much success in your work, but on the other hand you will have a lot of crocodiles who will follow you, and we will also be careful how you do your duty. I'm counting on your honesty, your humanity and your success to make politics as different as it has ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Aurelius Yuri, I am adjourning the meeting in ten minutes. We'll resume at 2.05 p.m. A short break. I've been in the state choir for four hours, so I'm taking five minutes off. The suspension shall be in the Rules of Procedure and shall be in the President's decision to determine it. At 2.05 p.m., we continue the general debate. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri, then Mr Stanislav Brenčič, and in order of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u46	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives and representatives, Mr candidate for the mandate! We will continue after a short recess, with a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u47	Thank you. There will be no debate, there will be a very short question. Mr candidate, the predecessor wished that the Prime Minister of all Slovenians and Slovenians be Prime Minister. I have no doubt that you will be a good Prime Minister of all citizens and citizens, whether you want to or not. But I do have one specific question. The project of the University of the Sea has its way, the government has adopted a decree, the decree has come to Parliament. How do you proceed with this project? Personally, I expect this decree to go its own way and that you will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. By my very nature, I am a man who looks at the world around me, and through this I also realistically judge not so much of the word, but of the actions and in particular the results. A respected candidate of the Mag. Robbery! Through our six-year cooperation, I can say that this cooperation was correct, and also pleasant, that you are a very working man, with a sense of microanalysis, but unfortunately I must also say that many of the projects that you have been obliged to carry out as a minister with the content that is dictated by time in our society, not only because of the past but only because of the future, both in the Ministry of Labour and in the Ministry of Finance, have been boldly pursued, but you have completed many of these projects with some compromise that was far from expectations and, above all, far from the set goal that you have set for the project as a start. I also have no intention of deepening into the list or analysis of these matters because we both know them. So I'm a little surprised, and I'm really surprised that I didn't track at least a handful of self-criticism in your performance, which was some kind of government programme for two years. I also note that I have not noticed anything encouraging or invited citizens and citizens, and especially officials, to save. It's like we're living somewhere else. As if we are not an integral part of this heart of Europe, where saving is dominant. It's no different with progress. All too much, you kind of beautifully intertwined the word into a story, you have to admit, you're very ritualized, which sounds like some of the stories we've heard in growing youth. Everything's fine and fine. But that kind of attitude towards reality gives me a lot of scepticism about what the end of this story will be. Especially when there will be no more public sector or financial needs, public finances, when there will be no more large-scale transfers to the pension fund, when public sector appetites can no longer be met, when we can expect significant transfers in the field of healthcare if the reform starts and continues as it is set in the outline. How will this story end when there is no more selling? How long will this story leave for those who have now begun searching for their space under the sun? Of course, Mr candidate, I sincerely want you to succeed with your programme, to succeed with your story. And I will be proud that in the party, in the Slovenian People's Party, we have decided so that I will be part of this story or this government coalition myself if this project succeeds. But I'm afraid if you don't divert your compass a little bit quickly, after which you've been walking for a while, and you won't stand firmer on the decisions or projects you're about to make, and if you don't get a firm hold on the excessive appetites of individual groups, I'll finally leave this story after two years as a kind of disappointed warrior who's been left with expectations, stuck far on the horizon. However, I certainly expect, because I know you, Mr Rop, for the sake of our Slovenia, that you will leave people to work and to work in responsible jobs to burn, to express their intellectual potential, without impaling them in the shackles of political partying. This must remain primarily the dominant of key functions in the country and let people express what is in them. It's bad if every time the coalition changes, the story starts to repeat itself, so I expect you to somehow cut it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina is next noted for the debate. He's not among us. The word has magic. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected candidate for Prime Minister. I think that you will be elected, no matter what we say in the National Assembly, good or bad about what you have done so far, and good or bad, which comes with your choice in Slovenia. However, I think that it does not matter that some things are clear to citizens, so that they will also decide in the future who to trust in votes and what they have in front of them. I also worked for a while in your office or in the Ministry. So I had a chance to get to know you as well as a man who turns out to be a good negotiator, like a man who has a lot of promise, which says good projects he promises, but from the projects you've been predicting, unfortunately, some of the results are poor. This must be dealt with when we decide on your takeover of the rule in this country. Let's see, there is an increase in economic growth, a reduction in the budget deficit, a reduction in indebtedness, lower unemployment, transparent public finances, not to mention privatisation, where you were also a secretary of state, and perhaps also the pensions that citizens had the opportunity to buy, and you have shown in a very vehement way that this is a success story. As with certificates, it has proved to be with a certificate hole and with the value of the assets that thousands of citizens now hold in hand and are actually empty papers. We also know what happened on the budget deficit and debt. The promising pension reform and the reform of social transfers should also be mentioned. Pension reform remained in the middle of the road. Not only did this change occur in this pension system, but it is no longer a real insurance system, as this system is dependent on budget grants. Due to the intervention, i.e. the reduction of contributions, this has become another stone, another skeleton, which means an additional stone in this wrong corporate system of our country. What am I trying to say? On the corporateity of a multitude of systems which are state or parastatal and which depend on the governing policy and the state budget. This is where politicians, ruling parties, become monopolies, and all of this is a key driver of inflation. You have also undertaken promising public sector wage negotiations. In the end, however, after a long period of time, this agreement was concluded in such a way as to enter into force only after a year or two, so that it would fall on someone else. This has led to a spiral wage rise in the public sector and thus the inflation generator. Monopolies are emerging. Privatization is in the middle of the road. Privatisation of the Ljubljana Bank. Here I have one question about the sale of the Ljubljana Bank: where does this money lie and for what interest? It was said that this would be for the payment of claims foreign to Slovenia. So I'd like to hear where that money is and if it's really dedicated to what was promised. A number of offices have emerged, promising government offices, which are just, as we see from the operation of practice, ordinary straw men who give opinions. The Anti-Corruption Office gives some opinions, "that would be or would not be." It's an integral part of this story. You probably wouldn't hear many of these stories, but because you were in charge or you were in charge of your active holding of such projects, of course it falls on you. So there were a lot of skeletons, including a health system that was supposed to fall out of the closet. Lately, they are no longer falling out of the closet, as my colleague, Mr Bajuk, has said, because you have simply closed them, or whether they have been closed by the media and the public, but they are becoming. These skeletons are not a product of the evil intentions of the foreign or of the poor or, I don't know, of the citizens, but of the rule, the reason is in the government. Inflation is also a result of government, governance, as I mentioned. This is not due to the rise in world market oil prices, but rather to the failure to privatise, monopolise prices and set prices-generating monopolies. And, of course, an increase in the employment of officials. Of course, I want you to succeed here in the story that it does not end like many projects, so that they will not end as well as the projects I have mentioned so far, because then it will be bad for Slovenia, because the government's functioning will be completely bad. If these promising stories that you had foretold were only seeming, the reality is not a fictitious one. And the citizens, the lives of the citizens will be cruelly cruel. So I wish you a successful job, but at the same time I warn you that what you promise, what you commit, what you write in the documents, will also be realized. If this story turns around and it's good, we'll be able to congratulate you, or it'll be bad for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Rupar, who has given up the debate, is next notified. Mrs Maria Ana Tisovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, distinguished candidate for Prime Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague! Over the past two years, I have often heard from the Prime Minister how education is needed to compete with knowledge in the European Union. Of course, New Slovenia is very supportive and pleased. However, when I look at how much funding is allocated in the budget for the already existing University of Maribor and Ljubljana and for the University of Primorska, I am a little concerned. I see a big gap between words and action. That is why, Mr candidate, I ask you: how can I understand your words, which you yourself have said, that attention should be given as much as possible to learning from society - given that so little money is actually meant for education. I hope that you will find money for higher education, that our people will be educated as much as possible and I really want you to succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. In this performance, I would like to be a Member of the National Assembly, who comes from a region that is very neglected in development. Finally, a study of quality of life and quality of life showed that in Posavje we live somehow the worst or that the inhabitants themselves have estimated that this work is a very poor standard of quality of life. I therefore ask the candidate for Prime Minister, in connection with the project that will take place and which has already begun to take place in Posavje, this is with the project to build the Sava power plant chain. This is a project, which is a national project, it is not a local project, because this also somehow improves the image of energy generation in Slovenia in the light of the trends expressed in the European Union and the modern world, which is in the light of the increase in the share of energy generated from renewable sources. This is a project that this National Assembly has somehow confirmed, on a proposal from the Government, supported by the government so far, and has also passed a law on the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the Lower Sava, signed on 8 July this year by the concession contract. This is why, last of all in Slovenia, we have also – or have established – the holding of Slovenian power plants, which is expected to be involved in the construction of this chain, which is valued at more than 100 billion Slovenian tolars. It's a big project, in short. Now that we have thought in the National Assembly that this story is over and that we do not see any problems here, they circulate between the management of the Slovenian power plant holding company and also between the municipalities in Posavje, letters that the financial resources for the operation of the company and the construction of the infrastructure must be provided by the Republic of Slovenia from budgetary resources and that these matters are not yet somehow settled and so on. I therefore ask the Prime Minister or the candidate for Prime Minister whether or not he will support this project or whether he will do everything possible to carry out the project and implement in particular that part of the project, such as the construction of water and other infrastructure, which the State has taken over. Whether the financing of this work will take place in the future and how the company comments or views - here I have a letter - that something is being co-financed here and that it does not currently see some sources of funding for this infrastructure. In short, I would like a very clear answer on the future of this very important project. But here's the other thing I'd like to mention, this is the construction of the Schengen border. And it's very tantamount to our Posavia. Above all, I am interested in the proposal that is now on the table that is still under discussion and that the results of the negotiations with the European Union are somehow unsatisfactory, namely that we will practically have to pay the Schengen border and the border checkpoints at this border from horizontal measures. This means that, of course, we will not get money for other necessary purposes, because we will practically set this limit ourselves, which is not only our borders, but also the borders of the European Union, of all members of Europe. Therefore, I do not see any argument that we would give up here and somehow, at the expense of the establishment of the Schengen border, overturn other content that is also necessary and necessary for funding from these European funds. In short, I ask how it happened in Slovenia, for the first time, that we lost part of the funds to establish the Schengen border, and that this new value is included in this horizontal level and is being deducted from the others. Here, I would like to ask the Prime Minister's position on how he will proceed in this light of the proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs. Maja Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that a number of Members are still being declared for discussion, we propose to extend our Group for one more hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs Zupan, you are probably aware that all the parliamentary groups have given the time they would need in the context of the general debate between Members and Members. The New Slovenia Group wanted to discuss 50 minutes, and so was your parliamentary group. I know that your embarrassment, of course, stems from the fact that you are three other people who would like to discuss, and you are running out of time within the time served. Allow us to hold the debate until the end. And at the end of the National Assembly, as in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will make your proposal to extend the debate on this issue to a maximum of one hour, as required by the Rules of Procedure. In this way, I will now ask the Members and Members of Parliament to hold the debate in the framework of the time notified by the Group of Members. Hereinafter, I will give your proposal to the National Assembly, which is the only one called to decide whether to extend the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I thank you for such a decision. Since I have a very short period of time, I would like to withdraw, for now, my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Franco Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Rob, I'd like to touch two of these. The fact is, as Prime Minister, you have said and announced that you will be a good master, that you will rule in terms of a good master with all the natural goods that Slovenia has at its disposal. But I did not see here anything more detailed about how you plan to manage Slovenian forests. The fact is that by concluding concession contracts with 14 last year, according to its privileged operators, the government has placed or placed in the management of the best Slovenian forests under very strange conditions or contrary to what we can say good governance. The fact is that it is estimated that over 2 million cubic metres of wood are of the best, of the most economic forests these forest economies receive to pay only symbolic compensation to the state, with only symbolic concession. And we estimate that the country loses half to four billion dollars a year here. That's a lot of money. I believe no cash register can cancel it. I know that or I have heard in this Chamber the answer that these are concession contracts, that there is nothing to be done here, that there is nothing to be done but a situation. However, I think and expect from you that you will give me an answer as to what your view of this strange matter is or what we can expect from the government you will lead to do in this area. Next. I think you have also given quite a bit of emphasis to coherent regional development. I think this is absolutely necessary, but I fear that the dynamics of developing coherent regional development are all too slow. Everything's too slow! It is the case that the law was passed in 1999 on the basis of the findings or one 1998 programme, but this point can be seen that the law on coherent regional development is not being implemented or implemented to a very limited extent. An evasive analysis of the Ministry of Economy's calls in 2002 shows, I will say, one match, one irregular situation in this area. The Ministry conducted a total of 23 calls and distributed over 4 billion 392 million tolars on these tenders. 1171 projects were registered on these 23 tenders and funding was granted for 618 projects. These are data from the Ministry of the Economy. The average value for the project was 7 million 106 thousand tolars. I'm asking your opinion. Could a project be a serious regional project if it has received such co-financing under a law on coherent regional development that is supposed to have serious implications. See, the total number of projects reported was 112 billion tolars in 2002 and co-financed these projects amounting to 4.3 billion, representing 4% of the reported value of these projects. I welcome all your intentions on how to deal with the arrangements, but this data shows how far we are from the intended goal. I think you're going to have a very difficult task here, or I'm sure it's going to take a lot of effort to move on. It is ineffective to have 23 calls in one ministry, ineffective. Allocation of money in such small amounts to such fragmented projects is the next issue of efficiency. The biggest problem, however, is that the distribution of these funds is not in line with exactly any of the regional development programmes adopted by the statistical regions. I think that's the key issue. When we look at this and calculate how much it costs, I will say in this poor financial support of regional projects by the State, what it costs to administer, that we will conclude that 18% of the total value of the allocated funds or allocations is for the writing of 1171 applications and for the evaluation of all these matters. Finally, the greatest absurdity of all that took place in 2002 in the area of distribution of funds by region is that the most funds were allocated to the central Slovenian region - 23%, for example, Pomurska 5,24, Koroška 3,56, Podravska 14,9 - I believe that you know this data. This shows that the allocation of funds has been completely disregarded by this regional criterion, which should contain that economic weakness, demographic threat and all that is enshrined in the law. 23% of the funding earmarked for coherent regional development has been earmarked by the Ministry and left to use it, leaving it to spend in the central Slovenian region, which deviates significantly from all indicators. If this is regional development, Mr Rop, I fear that you will have very much work to do to correct these anomalys that I have cited. In this way and in this form, I think that we cannot talk about coherent regional development and that more than obviously something is wrong here. Look, we've also heard now that the establishment is envisaged or I'm going to have to hand over the Ministry without a license to a man who would coordinate all these activities. But I think we already have too many institutions in this area. What did the Council specifically do for structural policy to bring about such anomalies in regional development? I'm only talking about the year 2002. What role or what is not clearly not played by the Regional Development Agency of the Republic of Slovenia? What role does our public fund for the regional development of the Republic of Slovenia play here in Ribnica? You know, here we have a feeling that no one knows who's drinking, who's paying, and how we can coordinate regional policy. However, the outcome in the final phase is that we find from the review of the allocations that we are promoting the most developed central Slovenian region regionally. Please let me explain this nicely, by what regional criteria the central Slovenian region received the largest share of the funds allocated under the 2002 tenders. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The time for discussion has also passed for the Socialist Party's Group. In fact, only Members and Members, whose predecessors from the same parliamentary groups have already spent time in the debate, namely Mr Sok, Mr Tsukati, Mr Malovra, Mr Mamić and Mr Podobnik, are notified in advance. The Group of the Social Democratic Party has spent its time notified for discussion. Mr. Kelemina, I called you to the debate when you were on your turn and you weren't in the hall. During this time provided for in the notified debates for the parliamentary groups, of course, the candidate for a mandate holder has also been given the opportunity to submit the answers addressed to him in those hours, and please, Mr candidate, mag. Anton Rope to try and answer all the questions you've asked. Here you go, Mr. Rope.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Of course, in such a short time, it is difficult to answer all the questions you have asked today. However, I intend to examine the criticisms that have been made, in particular all those that have also had some salt and, of course, are justified. By no means do I agree to a black - and - white painting of our reality and our reality. I certainly don't agree to disaster. In no way do I subscribe to the criticism and denial of everything that has been done and done in recent years; all that Slovenia today ranks among the relatively developed European countries, among the best candidates for accession to the European Union, among those countries which, if compared by any indicator - education, economy, public finances, and even if you want poverty - depart from other countries and usually precede them in front of all others. Often, the problem with negotiations with the European Union was that the negotiators usually started, on the other hand, that the picture is relatively good, significantly better than in other candidate countries and, for example, comparing the public financial picture, significantly better than in Germany, better than in France, better than in Italy. Of course, we have fought with such bargaining positions, and I think that the latest information shows, also, we have chosen a relatively better financial position than the European Union, as it was originally given. I certainly do not agree with these criticisms, which have been given here, for example, only for example, in the area of unemployment, how can we even talk about computerisation in the project of reducing unemployment. I cannot accept this and such criticism simply because it is not because those who have talked about it know that 25% of the unemployed in Slovenia are young people, people who need to be educated, people who need to be promoted, people who need to be trained for tomorrow, it would not seem to him that senseless, that senseless. And if whoever said that listened to what I said and knew what we were doing, he'd know what we were doing and we're still going to do to reduce the unemployment of those groups that are the hardest to employ. We have listened to many indications that we do not have an economic development strategy, that we do not have a national development programme, that we do not have a pre-accession economic programme. There's an economic development strategy on my desk. And this time we have already repeated that we have a strategy for economic development, so that maybe it would be good for those who claim not to have it to look at it. The pre-accession economic programme of Slovenia - in the last report of the European Commission is assessed as a real, good document. We also made it very clear what the problem is in Slovenia, and I also said this in my introduction. The underlying economic problem at this point is inflation, we have to do more in this area, and here I do not want to give false images or false promises, but I say that this is a major problem that we have to solve. And the rescue will be hard. The solution will be hard because it will have to be cut into many areas and, of course, then the reactions will not be so simple. Today, some of the projects I was carrying out were opened and managed, and in some cases, they may have been guided, not even in black and white. It is not possible to take a black and white picture of the privatisation project in Slovenia; it is not possible to paint a black and white picture of the pension reform project, nor the privatisation of banks and insurance companies. If you ask foreign experts today what kind of privatisation we have done in Slovenia, you will see that Slovenia is one of the few countries that has succeeded with the model we have, with all the weaknesses, to make the least possible privatisation, at least bad, despite all the problems. We have countries that have made privatisation by practically selling out all companies in two years. You have virtually no domestic-owned business, we have countries that have carried out so-called commercial privatisation, so the management has received loans and, of course, never paid back those loans. And we also know the consequences. With us, we have tried a balanced model, with all the weaknesses, and I believe that we have finally obtained a relatively good result, which is finally also reflected in the economic results. The economic results, honourable Members and Members, are relatively good. They are better than in the European Union as far as dynamics are concerned and better than in many other countries around us. As far as pension reform is concerned, pension reform is one of the most difficult projects of modern countries. I fully agree with those who said that the pension reform was done by half. We also said that when we made the pension reform. We pension reforms simply could not have been done to the end in that moment, in that environment, based on social dialogue, dialogue between the social partners, but my assessment is that it is good that we have not done this to the end, that we have done it to the point where we can agree that we have not caused unnecessary additional conflict or perhaps even a fall in pension reform. When we carried out the pension reform, of course we also saved a lot of money. Today, however, we can watch our second pension pillar grow, how many people are involved. In the near future, we are practically expecting 200,000 employees who will be included in the additional pension reform. I speak simply because I want to reiterate that it is not a black and white picture, but it is a good and bad side of what we have done. My assessment was that the results are largely not poor. But there are many things, many challenges, many tasks that we still have to do. Three areas were specifically mentioned here: inflation, regional development and public finances. These are, I believe, key areas that need special attention. I've been given some questions because I'm running out of time, and I'm going to try to be relatively fast. First, it concerns our foreign policy relations, our relations with the European Union. I was asked if I supported the so-called Swedish model. I support the Finnish model. You discussed this in Parliament and supported the Finnish model, which means cooperation between the government, between Parliament, mutual information and, of course, codecision on all key foreign policy issues when we talk about the European Union. Speaking of relations with Croatia, it is perfectly clear that we want good neighbourly relations with Croatia. We all know that we have relatively complicated and complex problems that we need to solve with each other and that we need a lot of rationality, a lot of reasonableness and a lot of arrangements and talks for resolution. My assessment is that we have reached a relatively good agreement on the border, which was also initialled, and that was undoubtedly a negotiation achievement, if you would also like Dr. Janez Drnovska. He certainly was. We have a considerable number of problems in other areas, including the problem of savers. Our determination in this area is clear. We can solve problems multilaterally, in the framework of negotiations, in Basel, in order to find common solutions to all the problems in this area and in this context. As far as the merger of the New Bank of Maribor and the Postal Bank is concerned. I've made it public that I support this project. I also publicly say here and further that I believe - and I also said this in a speech - that it is appropriate to build another financial Slovenian pillar, not only through the merger of these two banks, probably also through merger and we will study this in the following - Insurance companies Maribor, perhaps the Sava Insurance Office and, of course, later in agreement with the other banks on the basis of real business interest, whether it is possible to take steps forward. Very many questions were addressed to regional development, but I have a very long topic - I have 45 seconds. I'd like to say that's one of the most important priorities. And because of this priority, we have decided to reorganise the way in which regional policies are coordinated. We will reorganise our responsibilities for coordinating these policies, including the funds transferred at the Ministry of the Economy to the level and level of the Prime Minister, who will be directly responsible for regional policy and will be responsible for it, and in this sense I am also committed today. Simply because it is such an important topic, not only within Slovenia, but also towards the European Union's Structural Fund, towards the European Regional Fund, that we need a new approach and, in fact, they have taken a similar approach in many other countries across Europe. I actually have some more of these answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u64	Mr. candidate, of course, the National Assembly is planning its time because of its love. It's such an important item in the agenda. Mr. Candidate, please wait. The proposal was and, as chairman, I propose to the National Assembly that the debate, of course, in which part you can participate with your replies, should be extended by an hour - was the proposal of the Member. And at that time, I think Mr. Candidate is likely to use it. How long, sir? 30 minutes is enough. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would ask you, within this time frame, to consider that Mr candidate for a term of office immediately completes its presentation. I think this is the most fitting and respectful of him and that what he has to say is right to end now. Regardless of the fact that there is still something to be answered, of course, it is with pleasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I think that my proposal has been designed as well, so I have invited Mr Rob to wait on the speaker to provide you with the answers he has been prepared for your debate. There were 30 proposals and 60 minutes. Allow me to suggest 45 minutes. And within that 30 minutes is enough. [[...]] Okay. I propose to the National Assembly that it decide to extend the debate by 45 minutes. I put this proposal to the vote. It's a compromise, and that's why I decided 45 minutes, which is between 60 and 30 minutes. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. There were 23 votes against 35. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that there is no desire for a prolonged debate in the state. Five minutes until the end of this agenda item. I invite Mr Rope to complete in this part his answers, which he has yet to give. At 3 p.m., we will proceed to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Rope. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u67	I regret that some of the intermediate options here are proposed because the two were crystal clear proposals and either one or both, or both, are put to the vote, in my opinion. And we'd vote in 30 minutes. And if you put this proposal to the vote, we will vote for it as well. Of course, in this context, the candidate for a term of office and those who have not arrived will probably be responsible. And we're not going to discuss it in that part either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Of course, this is a battle for the shadow of a donkey, if I may say so. As President, I can assess and also propose time. I said 45 minutes, but if you want to go fighting between the opposition and the position, I'll give you both time to vote. Of course, we can decide 60 minutes and then 30 minutes. Okay. I propose to the National Assembly that it decide first whether it wishes to extend the debate [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We must first decide on these procedural proposals and then the following will be followed. We decide first whether we will extend this agenda by 60 minutes. We are voting on this procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 40. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing we won't be discussing this for 60 minutes. Therefore, I am putting to the vote a procedural proposal to extend the debate by 30 minutes. We will vote on this procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. With this point, we will continue until 3:30 p.m., through the debate of Members and Members, and within this time, the candidate for answers to questions will also have the opportunity. I'm asking for peace in the hall! The damage is every second and minute that we will spend, because this will shorten the debate - we are working until 3:30 p.m. I ask Members and Members who want to discuss that these 20 minutes are actually what those who have not been able to discuss in this part are doing now. Let me write you down. Thank you so much for volunteering for the debate. Each has three minutes available for its debate and a ten-minute candidate for Prime Minister at the end. I call first to the word of the Member and Members. First of all, Mrs. Zupan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear candidate, Members and Members of Parliament! If you listened carefully to your presentation before your election as Prime Minister, you would limit your contribution to only one segment of our society, which is not negligible. According to official data, in Slovenia, 12% of the poor are people with income below the poverty threshold, which is set at half the average income per citizen. That's naked statistics. Life shows an even blacker picture. On the other hand, too many times in our community, we see the emergence of new rich people, young rich people, who also make use of internal information. Economic crime in relation to the market economy is growing and is increasingly showing its teeth and is one of the sources of social dispersion. In your next speech, you also mentioned this area and announced the next year's adoption of the programme against such developments. But why has nothing been done in this area so far? I'm asking if in recent years, perhaps in the last four years, any criminal proceedings have even begun against anyone who has exploited or exploited internal information. I don't think the programs are enough. Serious measures and effective control are needed, in particular the functioning and behaviour of the government in order to minimise such negatives in society. That's what we've been missing all along. Mr. President, I'm afraid the programme won't be enough. I would like the government that you will be leading to pay much more attention to these problems in society and to focus its efforts on the whole range of its activities, because otherwise the social dispersion process in our society, where more and more poor and on the other hand increasingly rich, will be difficult to stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the next word. Here you go. The order will be as follows: Mrs Zupan, Mr Sok, Mr Mamić, Mr Pukšič, Mr Kelemina and Mr Onion. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected candidate for the term of office! In fact, it is extremely tragic that, with such an important fact as today, we cannot speak to the new mandate-holder. So this is all the tragedy of this Rules of Procedure that you have declared to be the best thing that exists between business definitions in the European Union. I do not believe or imagine that in any other country in the EU there are rules of procedure that do not allow Members to discuss the budget, the change of government and so on. Of course, in these three minutes I cannot develop the debate that I have prepared, but in fact I wanted to make the mandate holder more aware of how difficult it is to live in our country for people who work and earn 60,000 tolars a month. In fact, he was talking in his exhibition about prosperity and, I don't know, about big social programs and so on. Of course, in three minutes, clearly, I can't do that. Dear colleagues, you have prevented this. However, I would take these two minutes and present one matter that seemed very interesting to me. A few days ago, you met with representatives of the International Monetary Fund here in the National Assembly of certain Members, this is Feri Horvat - United List, Blaž Kavčič - LDS. And when the representative of this International Monetary Fund, Badenteri, was interested in how we see rising prices in telecommunications, energy and utilities faster than in other areas, we explained that this is how we want to align ourselves with prices in the European Union. He asked you why, however, this would be the goal of Slovenia, when we know that prices are lower in certain countries and higher in certain countries. So this fact and such answers, of course, tell us everything: the goals - the EU's alignment and the representatives of this body or the International Monetary Fund have taught you that it is not actually the goal there [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in the European Union, but that the price must be reflected through the costs of raw materials, the costs of capital, labour and others. Since, of course, the cost of our work is miserable, I have already said that many workers deserve 60,000 dollars a month, in fact, I would like the Commissioner to tell me how he imagines how these people can survive. Because he's not some novelty here today, he's always in all of Drnovsk's governments, and I don't believe everything he's in, I'd say, a very elegant speech at the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I welcome all present. I listened attentively to the candidate's interpretation, and at the outset he said he would succeed Mr Drnovsk, who led the government very successfully. What does that mean? If Mr Rop is to run the government in the same way, so successfully, then I do not support him, because this government has not been successful for me. But if it gets any better, then I hope I'll say in two years that I made a mistake because I didn't support him. All the time I've been interested in the National Assembly, and I'm still interested in one question. When the law laid down the so-called gas toll to make the highways out of this exposed gasoline, and not even half of it was used to build highways, that is to say, was not used for its purpose. I want to know why not. And if - Mr Rob, of course, will be elected today, this is once one - I wonder whether he will be like a former finance minister, because he knows these things very well and can have bad news himself about not going so much money for his purpose, or whether this column will be fixed at least a little, so that the highway program will be at least a little relaxed under the law when it was written that by 2002 the highway cross will be completed. We're in the middle of something today. I'm just thinking a little bit, I just know I'm not wrong enough. If I say anything else about the regions. I wonder if it will go from the regions down to develop the Slovenian countryside. There was not much talk about this but only that something would be done in the countryside. Because I am against centralism, we all know that it is growing and that something has to be done in this area. There are possibilities. There are great potentials. I'd like to know how Mr. Candidate looks at such things. I would also like to remind him that when he said that work cannot be hidden, it is transparent. I think this transparency is very dark, so you can see nothing through and therefore the opposition's questions are always so - clear and pure - only the answer is not clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. In 1996, when I first came to this house, where, of course, I expected something quite different from what is actually happening here, I was one of the few people who spoke about geographically endangered areas that talked about the Slovenian Goricas and Halozas and who talked about survival in this area. Today, after six years, I am ashamed that I am already a second member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and I am ashamed that this National Assembly has always elected such a government, which in fact has become one of the central problems. Last year, at its meeting on 20 December 2001, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an assessment of the situation and difficulties in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In this assessment, it has identified and recorded certain facts. Among other things, it says: "The greatest pressures of coercion can be expected in the wider Ljubljana and Coastal Area." Among other things, it says: "In rural areas, population decline will continue at annual level to minus 2, as since 1960, when 36 per cent of the population lived in rural areas, it has decreased to 7 per cent." The population is already declining, with 40 percent and, of course, 20 percent of the population stagnant. The ageing and stagnation of the population of Slovenia is a structural weakness and in two thirds of Slovenian territory. Of course, Slovenian mountains and Haloze are mentioned among these Slovenian territories. Two thirds of Slovenian territory, with 50 percent of the Slovenian population. This population, Mr President-in-Office candidate, mainly deserves as much in 8 years as individuals were the starting point of managers at the state-owned company Elan. I'm not talking about high-priced awards called the secret part of the contract. In eight years, these people barely make as much money as they've ever done in the first place. To talk, of course, about the so-called prizes on profit, about the so-called Nobel prizes that were awarded yesterday, some want to earn them on a state account. Unfortunately, I don't have time to talk about this anymore, but these are serious problems that have increased with potential in the last six years, not linear functions. Therefore, I ask you, as soon as you become President of the Slovenian Government, not to ignore the Slovenian Mountains. I invite you, as a Member, to the Slovenian Mountains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! Of course, I would like to say at this time, if I could have it, what a good story to break at the expense of the candidate's gentleman, who, by the way, is apologizing now, if we were going to go over the criticism and display things black and white and so on. But that's all true. He would have deserved a lot of criticism and deserved it during this decade, and things should also be black and white if we are to find out the real truth. Now you are showing us here, as if we are the best country in Europe, the most developed, the best, if not even better than Switzerland and Germany and so on, so you have spoken before. Now I want to know what kind of field we really are. Those indicators that you are showing to Europe are, in fact, often falsified, lying, and it is no wonder that then Europe wants to burden us significantly more than other countries, which, of course, had a lot of strategic and political support for their interests. But if you're already telling us how good we are and that we're the best in this Europe, then I'll ask you in what area. In the field of excise duties, it is certain. In our country, gasoline costs almost as much as in the European Community.What are our salaries and, above all, the wages of employees? In view of this ratio, gasoline should be worth more than 100 tolars in our country and nothing more in order to buy it as much as an average worker can buy in the economy in a developed Europe. Only 100 tolars or even lower price. Let me only read to you during this period if you do not know that there are 50, 100 candidates who are also highly educated. There used to be enough elementary school for that. Today with a high education, however, this work cannot be obtained because there is no possibility. Without connections, your blessing cannot be obtained by this service. Let me just tell you this and ask you what to do in the area of corruption and bribery at the highest level, at the level of ministries. Ministers were also bribed by individual companies and enjoyed certain ratings and, of course, on the basis of providing them with no possibility of doing business. I ask you whether this will also continue to allow the top officials of this country to live on the account of bribery and corruption. When you turn that down and destroy it, then I hope you do something more. As long as that is not the case, there will certainly be no order and no justice in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much. There were quite a few statements that were not correct. All parliamentary groups were given the opportunity to discuss at this point of the agenda just as long as they wanted. And now to say that anyone has restricted Members and Members of the Group in notifying this time is incorrect. If I had notified your group more time, there would have been more. Mr. Onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm sorry, but I had a procedural proposal before, but let's leave; at the conclusion, I'm just going to propose what I thought was a better solution than you've actually decided. That is all I would say, given the answers that the candidate for the Prime Minister has already answered in part, that it would be the right and right decision, that, last but not least, this decision would be respected by the Presidents of today's assembly, or the Vice-President of our House, and also based on this coordination or agreement, also be addressed in the parliamentary groups, how much time do we need Members for any questions or debate. In this way, we are limited in some way, especially in the case of possible answers, if the Members we have appointed to the candidate do not receive them. And that's one of the reasons I was initially distracted by that was that I had a better solution. In view of the answers already submitted by the candidate for Prime Minister, I would like to ask the following questions. When the so-called regional development was mentioned in order to transfer the full responsibility of the Prime Minister directly to me, the question arose to me why the government needed a minister without a licence. I hope to have the answer to that question as well. The point is that if regional development is indeed going to take place in this area of competence, I have no doubt that there will be no more successes. However, if any part of the responsibility or responsibility of development itself is transferred to the minister's office without a licence, I still think in some way that this success will certainly not be achieved in these two years. However, I would certainly like to have the answers to the other questions, because this would confirm what I said earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. And the last one, Mr. Cuckoo. Please be brief, so Mr. Robb will explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Well, we have heard quite a lot of criticism today, which has been focused on liberal policy, represented by the candidate. It all shows that this policy is really too social, too unfair, too poor transparency, I think about the work of the government, and probably too corrupt. But I would only mention something here that really bothers me with the candidate. I'm not gonna count the good side. I'm not gonna count the bad side. See, when we adopted the 2001 budget, the opposition discovered, proved, that the starting point was wrong to draw that sin of Drnovskov's government from previous years, where the revenue of 13 months covered the expenditure of 12 months. Well, and we witnessed the very calm, beautiful words of the then minister, you personally, and finally you also had to admit and drink this bitter matter. The second thing was when the 2002 budget was adopted, where you based your budgetary vision on a higher gross social product, on higher economic growth, where we pointed out once again that these starting points were fictitious and also relied on knowledge, discovery, evidence from the Bank of Slovenia and other independent professional institutions. And again, it was a lot of nice talk, and only then did it turn out that you were wrong again. Not to mention the deficit in the state treasury, where, of course, you recognise the public debt of a larger country, perhaps even a wider country where we do not find some major losses in it, but of course there is little about the losses of the public sector; this is said to be the loss of Darsa, the funds, the export society and so on. And also to mention - a little bit more familiar - the deficit of the Institute of Health Insurance, which under the Maastricht criteria represents a total loss, but is nowhere in these balance sheets. Mr. Secretary, what do I mean by that? That we do not need a mandate-holder who will speak nicely, who will appease us, who will comfort us with false words, but who will be able to tell the truth, look us in the eyes, us and all voters, and based on this to make clean accounts if we want to be good friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office. Anton Rop, please choose a word and please do not feel limited in time and answer the questions raised by Members and Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u83	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to answer some of the other questions raised here. Certainly, those relating to regional development seem particularly important to me and therefore it is appropriate to respond to them. Regional development as a priority not only means coordination of different policies, but also the implementation of certain policies within Slovenia. In particular, this means those policies that Mr Sušnik has also discussed and currently relate to subsidies from the Ministry of the Economy, which are relatively small and sometimes so dispersed that the question is whether they make any sense in such a form. Regional development also means, of course, - the policy of promoting regional development means, of course, the coordination of all other policies: the policy of promoting entrepreneurship, innovation, transport policy, education policy and so on. All of this is affecting the area of the regions. And the dimension that has been repeatedly warned so far is that of the European Union. As we enter the European Union, an important part of the budget flowing for regional development for the development of the regions will go through the European Union. This will be done through the Regional Development Fund and, for example, these resources, which will increase enormously, will relate to rural development. For example, rural development is projected at 10, 15 and 20 billion. These are concrete projections, these are figures agreed with the European Union. And, of course, someone has to coordinate this policy, someone has to coordinate this policy with the European Union, with the European Commission, and you will agree that this cannot be done by the Prime Minister himself all the time, who, of course, has to take responsibility. I see in particular the role of the Prime Minister in the part where the project council is now. The project council is now headed by the Minister of Economy. I think it should be run by the Prime Minister. And, of course, I also think, based on the interviews we've been conducting, when we've been thinking about what to do in the area of regional development, in order to change or prepare a new law on regional development. So that I truly hope that we will come up with a quality, professional proposal for a minister without a ticket, so an area that may also present some obise more in detail how we should lead in a new way, in a modern way, regional policy in Slovenia. Now, quickly on some of the questions I have. As far as the medical school in Maribor is concerned, there is no reason not to say, of course, that I support the establishment of a medical university. As far as the Court of Auditors' opinion is concerned, Mr Kangler is gone, in the meantime I have obtained information that is not negative, but that is with reservation, so it is necessary to look at this and the competent minister will have this duty. As regards the use of the purchase from the New Ljubljana Bank, let me say that we have made a joint programme and we can present it in particular at any time, for example in the Committee on Budgetary Control or in the Home Committee, and present precisely this project, which is prepared in a coordinated manner, in detail, and I assure you that we are also, of course, making a relatively high interest on this purchase and that we are using it exclusively to reduce public debt and also as an instrument for the replacement of good bonds, ours, good for us and bad for the banks. We have made considerable savings from this address. I think it is a very good project, which we will be happy to present to the wider national assembly. As for the project of the University of the Sea, I can say that I myself led that government meeting when we adopted this decree and, of course, we gladly accepted it and supported the establishment of the University of the Sea. As far as what has been said in the end is that the indicators on Slovenia's performance are wrong, I think I made it very clear that there is a whole set of foreign independent rating agencies that do their own assessment of Slovenia and you will see if you look at these foreign reports, as well as the money fund at the end, that these reports are mostly positive. They also point to some of the problems that are undoubtedly there. And I was talking about them today. I was talking about inflation, I was talking about unemployment, I was talking about social issues, and so on. Let me just say, in the end, it's not my intention to say nice things. My intention is to try to talk as real as possible about real problems. I, of course, intend to defend the projects that the government will be doing. I hope that the government, and for this I will work together, as a team, with full energy and strong will to do the best we can for all Slovenian citizens and for all Slovenian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Candidate, Mag. Tone Rop. We have thus concluded the debate on the proposal by the President of the Republic to elect a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. I invite all my colleagues to come to the big hall. We will vote on this proposal. First of all, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly on the election of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia shall vote in secret. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the Commission, which shall be composed of the President and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on my proposal. I have received the following proposals from the parliamentary groups: colleague Moge, colleague Kelemin, colleague Juri and colleague Levič, and myself as chairman. Does anyone object to such a proposal? Can I put him to the vote? I ask that the National Assembly vote on the composition of the Commission. There are 64 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 61 of you were in, 1 against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a voice will be delivered to Members and Members by each of you at the table and by giving his name and voice. May I have your attention in the hall, please? I will read the rules by which we will vote. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the word ZA or PROTI on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Rule 91 of the Rules of Procedure, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. Under the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the candidate for Prime Minister will be elected if voted for by the majority of Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in two voting booths here in the Grand Chamber of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament will be placed in the ballot box, which will be at the voting table. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to a secret ballot. Members of the committee who will assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the election material and return to the Assembly Hall. It's 15 and 31 minutes. We'll be in the hall at 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. when we start the vote. The vote will take place for 20 minutes. That'll be 16 hours and 5 minutes. The electoral commission will, after 20 minutes behind us, meet again in room 217, find out the will of the national assembly and 10 minutes later the national assembly will be informed of its decision. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u85	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the outcome of the vote on the election of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held in our premises, at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 11 December this year. 87 ballots were distributed. 87 ballots were delivered. It wasn't invalid. All 87 votes were valid. 63 Members and Members voted against by 24 Members and Members. [[Let's hear it.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, he was elected by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Anton Rop. I beg you to swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u86	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u87	Please, Prime Minister, would you like to speak briefly after your oath? You want to short-circuit the National Assembly? Please, you have this option.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u88	If you allow me, honourable Members and Members, I would particularly like to thank you for this great support that I received today in the National Assembly. Of course, such great support is such a great commitment and commitment to me that I will do my utmost to do my utmost to benefit all Slovenian citizens and citizens of the Programme, the tasks, the challenges, as well as the problems ahead of us, will indeed require all of us - I think now is the time to say clearly - a wise decision to carry out those programming tasks that we have presented today. I'll propose a new government myself as soon as possible. I firmly believe that this will be a good government, and above all I firmly believe that this will be a government that will act as a team that will work together and work together for all the projects that we are working for together, which is, for tomorrow's better Slovenia. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. On behalf of the National Assembly, I congratulate you once again and wish you every success in your important duty. This concludes the agenda item. We move on to the A2 point of the agenda - namely the proposal for a decision on the breakdown of the previous legislative referendum on the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on the return of deposits to the public telecommunications network. I ask colleagues and colleagues if they can congratulate the new Prime Minister outside the great hall. Vice-President Pohorec will hold the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u90	Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u91	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I would suggest that the point you predicted would continue in 20 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u92	Thanks for the suggestion. I don't think there's a reason for 20 minutes, but I suggest we do what we want in ten minutes. That's why I'm taking ten minutes off, and then we'll get back to work. At 4:33 p.m., we continue to discuss the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u93	Colleagues and colleagues! We are continuing the work of the National Assembly by item 2 of the agenda, this is the proposal for a regulation on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the return of investments to the telecommunications network. It's more information than that. The deal is we'll end this agenda item because we have enough time to do this, that's until 6:00. Then we would continue the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the following points, according to item 1 of the agenda. On the basis of the request of 40,000 voters received by the National Assembly on 6 December 2002, a draft decision on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network is prepared. For this agenda item, we have announced a debate between the parliamentary groups and Members: SDS 30 minutes, SLS 25 minutes, DeSUS 5 minutes, Nova Slovenija 10 minutes, Slovenian National Party 10 minutes, Party of Youth Slovenia 5 minutes and individual Member 3 minutes. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups. I give my word to the delegation of DeSUS, Ivan Kebrich, who is not here. That is why I give the floor to the next, the Group of the Slovenian National Party, Sasha Pecett, who is also not here. The next one has the word mag. Andrej Vizjak, Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia; instead, I give my word to my colleague Puksic and I ask him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The decision on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, of which I was a first-signed Member, will be supported by the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. In fact, I was thinking about how far I would go in this discussion. And if I recall a long time ago - I wasn't alone, even one of my fellow Members, who is among us today, we happened to be in an interview at the time in the PTSD and we were talking or then Director Grill had a proposal about how it would be returned to those who were more investing in the public telecommunications network. All those who thought positively in this direction, all those who were aware that some materially good came from means, with greater involvement of some individuals, especially those from rural areas, demographically threatened areas, less developed areas and, of course, from smaller urban settlements, all of them, I'll say, were thinking positively in this direction that even those who built this company need to return when they announce the privatisation of Telekom. Variations were different. Such a proposal, such as today, was proposed by the Government, proposed by Minister Gantar. I myself, of course, had concerns about such a law, and I proposed some other way, but of course it did not have majority support and only one such as we accept. We have accepted, however, those who are aware that this company is at the expense of the stings of a large number of Slovenes and Slovenes, a large number of those who are not on the management team of Elena today, a large number of those who today receive 50 or 60,000 net personal incomes or a large proportion of those of the 120,000 registered, even more because there are many unregistered, unemployed people. Many of these were built by this telephone network, this Telekom, so of course there was no other option than when such a bad bill with Liberal Democracy, with most of the Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS, was adopted that we had proposed to the Social Democrats to amend such a law, and when this amendment of this law went through the mother's working body, the Committee on Finance, and there experienced a negative judgment, that is to say that the National Assembly had proposed that the National Assembly would reject it, of course there was no other than that the association had activated, gathered those thousands of signatures needed before the third hearing and then, of course, collected over 70,000 signatures of citizens and citizens for the invitation of the previous legislative referendum. Before the end, I would also like to say that I think the secretariat's opinion on the legislation in the last paragraph is politically but not professionally. In fact, the last paragraph could be the opinion of the Committee. Well, and before I finish, respected colleagues and colleagues, just two minutes, a few lines from the letter, which is one of many. I've been getting a lot of these letters in the last few months. So I'm a representative of the street committee, I was a member of the construction committee for the construction of the telephone network on our street committee. In 81 we launched an action to build the main telephone network in our village, 120 telephone connections. That's when we got the phone cables ourselves. The PTT didn't have any back then. We got them by collecting copper for the cable and putting it into processing to make us a telephone cable. The cable dimensions were prescribed by PTT and it took into account that it would connect additional subscribers from the surrounding area to our cable and that they did not participate in the procurement and payment of the cable. Of course, such stories, these are life stories, it's not a great philosophy, it's a fact that's happened. Unfortunately, since 97 this national assembly has not found sufficient political will to make this right. As early as 1997, a specific law had been drawn up on the Infrastructure Committee, which I was a member of to adopt. We've reached the final stage today. Colleagues and colleagues! We have no other option than to perform a procedural task alone. Our procedural task is to adopt a decree, which will also set a deadline for the referendum. I am sure that this resolution will also be voted on in the referendum and then, colleagues and colleagues, our second procedural task will be to adopt a proposal to amend the law that has been tabled. But I would suggest that, for today and that day, when we adopt this law, we cancel all personal income and put it in the return fund. That is why, unfortunately, we will also be in solidarity with you, who have not led to this circus, that a referendum should be declared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u95	Thank you. The next word is from the New Slovenia Group and Alojz Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u96	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new Slovenia will certainly support this resolution on the call for a previous legislative referendum. We believe that only in this way has it been possible in the Republic of Slovenia or that it will only be possible to legalise a truly fair regime in this area. For what this Parliament has adopted is, in terms of those who have invested a great deal of their resources to develop telephony, unfairly and unjustly. Of course, it is a shame that in this country we have to actually have people pass through Parliament, pass through the National Assembly for their rights and take fair solutions in a way that is the second time this year and, it seems, we will have a year of referendums in 2003. This, of course, will cost this country a great deal, and it is the blame for this to be attributed to the Slovenian government and to the great coalition, which, despite the will of citizens in this Parliament, adopts such and similar laws. Now, of course, a 100% refund is required, although the association was willing to agree to 80% of the refund, but Minister Gantar did not agree to it at the time. It will be very interesting to hear today, or I ask him how he now assesses this situation, in which the government is in place, and when this Parliament is, I am sure, next January, the next year of the vote and the electorate will surely confirm this at the referendum. For it is not fair that those who have built this system who have invested in this system should not receive it back at the time of the privatisation of Telekom. Even less so is the explanation given by Minister Gantar in this House at that time, since these funds have already been depreciated and therefore cannot be recovered more than 20 to 40 %. It is clear that people have also paid depreciation in the price of impulses all the time and that Telekom would never be so valuable if citizens and citizens did not invest in this system. We, too, in the parliamentary group, seem to have disputed the conclusion of the legislative and legal service that is going to come to this if the state budget is to be charged with this. Therefore, it would seem logical for us to draw attention to this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Finance, but not to draw attention to this fact from the legislative and legal service. Nor does it hold that this will burden the budget, because we are talking about the privatisation of Telekom and these funds will actually come back from the sale of Telekom, not directly from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, if the government and the great coalition then had listened to the association and opposition in this House, of course, the referendum would not have been needed, as would then the referendum on the privatisation of railways, which means that the country is needlessly subject to high and unnecessary costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I give my word for the position of the SLS mag Group. Janez Kramberger. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Friends and colleagues, hello! In short, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I would like to say that our Group will support the decision on the call for a previous legislative referendum. Indeed, at the time of the adoption of the law, we have now had certain comments on the amount of returns. It is only important to us that, when we increase the funds to return, this law will not go from the state budget to that end, but will, in fact, be directed to or from the purchase that the country will recover when it sells to Telekom. We therefore support people's will and therefore we will also support this motion for a decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u99	Thank you. Other position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, Igor Štemberger. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we have already warned the government, when adopting the law on return of investments in the public telecommunications network, that it should be fairer when preparing the law, to take into account the views of the association of beneficiaries on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network and in the final stage of the position of the opposition parties which opposed the adoption of such a law. In the adoption of the law, the members of the government coalition rejected all the comments and views we have made. You have passed a law that gives investors the right to receive only 20 to 40 percent of their overinvestment due to the time of conclusion of the contracts. In this way, you wanted to avoid a fair return on all overinvestments and put these investors in an unequal position with other owners of telephone connections who paid only the price of the connection and were not forced to invest excessively. In the Young Slovenia Party, we do not agree that the burden of depreciating the public network would be borne only by those owners who have invested excessively in the construction of the public network. For these reasons, we also co-signed members of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Returning Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network, which, unfortunately, we wanted to remedy the shortcomings mentioned in the Act. This once again shows that you are not prepared to take into account the arguments of civil society, the opposition and all those which are affected by the law you adopt. Once again, citizens and citizens have no choice but to serve the only remaining institution that the Constitution allows them, this is a legislative referendum, with which they must, despite the fact that they have put their votes to the vote and therefore expect you to lead the country to the benefit of all, your decisions to be rejected and your referendum to defend the consequences of the law you have adopted. Apparently, a number of coalitions are a burden to you before they help to keep the country stable. Your ignorant and all-powerful rule shows that you have completely lost touch with reality and with the foundation of every democratic society. This is the will of the people in whose interest we should rule. You have thus turned Slovenia into a country of referendums, which would not be bad in principle if the citizens of the referendums expressed their views on certain of the most important issues and their opinion would help you make decisions. But no. Slovenia is becoming a country of referendums where citizens defend themselves against government decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u101	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u102	In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that citizens will soon realize that there is another one besides this path, which is more rational and more effective. That is, that you will no longer be elected in the elections. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we will of course support the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u103	Thank you. The position of the SNS will be given by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Members and Members! I will begin with the last paragraph of the legislative and legal service, which states as follows: Already at the stage of the initiative to collect signatures in support of this request, the legislative and legal service has given a warning of the general nature which is repeated at this point. In the event of the call for referendums, the content of which relates to substantial financial resources to be poured out of public finances may raise the question of a permissible level of interference in the functioning of the budget and in general in the management of public finances and in this regard the impact or consequences on the exercise of the constitutional rights of third parties. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's literally written here. And if we turned that into a political tone, we could be so much sharper. And all of us together, 90 of us, regardless of the decision to try to get married without a referendum, we're all guilty in here. Mostly the one and the government who disagreed with this law. Because a simple farmer's logic, respected colleagues and colleagues, says that if we all invest 5, 10, 15, 20 years of our own work, own resources not to list everything it says here, into telephone centres, inter-terranean waters and local telephone networks, then someone comes from the Federal Republic of Germany, which is what we are talking about right now, takes it all away and becomes his property. But to those of us who gave, we invested, and back to the fig. You, yourself, personally, if you were at home and listened to such a story, would be in favour of a law that would require that the funds be returned at the time of Telekom’s surrender to a foreigner’s own person. This marriage was perfectly clear. Here I see no reason for those and the governments, above all, who were against such a law, which would save the first, I do not know how much, I will say, 500 million tolars, as this referendum will cost. And now we have a decree. We had, I think 60,000 signatures, 70,000 signatures, and now we're going to have a referendum that's going to cost so much and so much money. But I'm telling you, in the shortest time, in five months, I'm talking about information from unofficial sources. I tell you, where I live, five people should already be employed in Ljubljana. I'm telling you, where I'm home, some people have already found a job elsewhere because they know they're going. I tell you that out of the 300 individual contracts currently in existence in Telekom, d.d., 30 individual contracts remain in Slovenia. That information says a lot. And I think, dear colleagues and colleagues, that we all have to say here, we have made a big mistake for the costs that will go to the referendum and especially for that mistake when the foreigner takes over the company we've all invested in. At the time, the term was social or state property, and social property was nothing wrong. And I am also sure that, despite the referendum issues, people will not get what they have tabled. For, don't forget, the bank always lends money, but requires high interest on it. As soon as we get him back, we have to get him back. I wonder what it will be like to return to the people who, with their work and their money, built Telekom’s network, which is today very much built. We absolutely support the referendum decision and condemn that we had to reach the referendum, but for all costs, colleagues and colleagues, this time it is true that the National Assembly is to blame. We or, above all, those who were against the proposed law. This was the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u105	Thank you. And the opinion of DeSUS Ivan Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u106	Dear fellows! Slovenia is a democratic state and has the power of the people in democracy. We are from the people, we are elected from the citizens, and therefore we must respect their will and therefore our parliamentary group will vote in the manner prescribed by the law, that is to say that we will support the proposal for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u107	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members and I am moving on to the debate of Members and Members. First reported Franz Pukšič, please. Is there going to be a switch now because it was before? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u108	Since I did not speak specifically about this part of the amendments to the law that have been tabled in the presentation earlier, I would therefore like to point out only that in Article 1 it changes by changing the date, in Article 2, the second paragraph is amended, which, since the original paragraph of Article 4, summarises the first paragraph in its entirety as it does, but the second paragraph of course changes and becomes paragraph 4 of the fourth paragraph. This is because the basis for the return on investments is the contractual value referred to in the preceding paragraph, namely investment in telecommunications facilities, inter-compartment telephone lines and local telephone networks, all in all of these three. And in Article 3, this is related to Article 12 of the original law and is amended to specify that the return from the first return of the purchase is already due. And I would also like to say that the government which has proposed amending the law has opposed its opinion in the Committee in the first article, where it says that damage to state property is an obligation for the Republic of Slovenia to return investments for which it is not responsible. I think that in 77% of the owners of the Republic of Slovenia or the country of this Telekom will give nothing out of the budget but only from privatisation, from the first part of the purchase payment, what it says12. Article 1 Article 2 provides an explanation for the expected return, i.e. the basic principle of return is based on the nature of the contracts which were not a bank transaction or capital investment by their content - and what kind of capital investment was that! - which is expected to yield, but were an expression of the will of both parties to the construction, and so on. And this is literally a mockery of people who have invested in this network, or first-class cynicism, which only cruel liberalism can afford. Article 3 states that "the first amount of the purchase from the privatisation of the state stake of Telekom d.d. may not be high enough to return". It doesn't say anything about the first amount of the purchase, but it does talk about the first payment of the purchase, so immediately the first payment starts to come back. Well, and since I called earlier on Members who, in my deep conviction, were, of course, those who were simply to adopt such a bad law to give up their day's personal income, I expect that the Minister of State, Dr Gantar, will provide from his part of the budget the funds for the referendum, because he is most responsible for this happening. But I expect the new Magnificent Commissioner to do so. Anton Rob will no longer be invited to the government team because he deserves it simply because he has been opposed to a just return since 1997. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u109	Thank you. I give the word to France Rokavac, SLS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Maybe for a while. A nice greeting, of course, to the Minister and to all Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, I will support the call for a previous legislative referendum on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network. Despite the fact that I regret what has already been said today that Slovenia has become a country of referendums. However, I believe that this is due to too little obedience by both governments and the majority in this House for initiatives, and to the reasoned initiatives of civil society and the public at the right time, and that it is too often decided by "ad hoc" solutions, or today a solution needs to be taken, but not to give this issue much more attention, to the issues raised in the national assembly, and in this way also many times prevented the additional spending of taxpayers' money, and to the appropriate arrangements that would not result from the launching of the referendum initiative. I think that it is not only a question that the law on referendum and human initiative should be amended, but also whether the decision-making and decision-making instruments in the government and in this national assembly are correct. I think they are often too sensitive to the arguments that come from these parts. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u111	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u112	Nevertheless, I think it is appropriate that the merger of these referendums on the same day should be the only way for us to have citizens and citizens to decide on both proposals, on the proposal for the reorganisation of Slovenian railways, and on the proposal for a greater return on investment in the public telecommunications network, on the same day, which will also allow for greater rationalisation in the use of taxpayers' money. I only support the idea of the referendum and also the referendum issue. Therefore, if you remember when we talked here, in the telecommunications law, it was already clear, and already there were many words in this room that it was the first case of ownership of public infrastructure in this country. And that's the infrastructure that brings high profits. And that the country in this segment must still be quite sensitive. That is why I am convinced that a comprehensive solution is needed. Perhaps, however, little criticism is expressed to the proponents of this referendum question that it is possible to over-precise certain solutions, as greater flexibility could lead to better and better solutions in the final stage. In short, let me finish. I myself will support the decree, for the sake of the Constitution itself, and for the purposes of content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u113	Thank you. I give my word to France onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I will also support the ruling on the referendum for the return of funds to telecommunications. In short, I would not lose too much of the words that my fellow Members have already said. However, all I have to say is that, in some way, this should also be a lesson for Members of Parliament, especially the Government, that although we have a constitutional right or have a constitutional right and a legal right to decide in referendums, it is a matter of giving a variety of tolars or funds that we will support in this way, which is not a government or a national assembly, in most cases, a variety of debates on the law on telecommunications and other debates. I mean, of course. It is a referendum and the referendum will succeed. However, thanks go here mainly to the civil initiative or to the people who signed, in short, the support for the referendum managed to obtain, more than 40,000 signatures, and, of course, in this too, let there be a clear starting point also for all of us, so that we can also resolve matters that are essentially capital-driven, which, of course, at this point, the minister will probably not be able to admit. And in short, let me say to the Minister, above all, that the way of blackmail, when we only adopted the law, should be personal to him as a minister, but in particular, as Mr Puksic said, his question, perhaps confirmation in the new composition of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u115	Thank you. I give my word to Franc Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! It is a long and difficult way to solve this issue of investment. See, the appeal in the Constitutional Court has to be applied, that the matter has moved at all, that then we have somehow been able to record that the special law will solve the problem of return. We have always warned you, too, Minister, that the problem of returning excessive inputs to the construction of the public telecommunications network must be solved by satisfying the vast majority of those who have contributed disproportionately to the acquisition of the telephone connection than other citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. The basis for these investments was this well-known 1974 Law on Fundamental Telecommunications Unions, and on this basis the practice, general practice, began to be applied, that people from rural areas, people with rare settlements, less populated remote areas of Slovenia, our country, contribute more to the construction of public infrastructure than people in urban and urban settlements. Just as we built roads with self-contribution, we were forced to build a telecommunications network with abnormally high cartridges. 9, 10 thousand, 12 thousand marks had to be given to obtain a telephone connection, 50 kilometers from Ljubljana out and not yet in some corner, but directly at the traffic cross. This situation has been unsustainable and requires correction. The correction takes place when the state decided to sell this part of the public infrastructure. Your ignorance, Mr. Minister, and the ignorance of the majority in this National Assembly on this issue, which has proved through every two votes, must also be remembered that the Council of State has seen what the problem is and voted a procrastination veto on this law, most of them in this National Assembly have confirmed it once again, precisely for these reasons, which are now the subject of the referendum issue. Ignorance is reflected in the fact that we did not know or wanted to listen to civil society. It is perfectly normal for 150 000 and more beneficiaries to be organised by local communities, by municipalities, and not least in the All-Slovenian association. Mr Minister, we have rejected the initiative or compromise presented by the association, which required 70% of the real overpaid to return. We now have a decree on the call for a referendum, which will be undeniable, a referendum will, I am sure, bring before us a request for it to come back effectively overpaid. Of course, the attitude towards the adoption of this law is similar to that of the countryside, where the facts have to be taken into account and where we are forced to resolve matters in a different way, in some way. This centralisation is also reflected in the adoption of this law. This concerns them, people, people in Ljubljana, not about people in major cities, but those, I will say, some in Upper Bitnjali do not know where everything is and it is not worth paying attention to. But at the final stage, this issue will also need to be addressed or reacted as I am sure people will vote in the referendum. Of course, last year we had one referendum, this year we called two, or logically, after the inertia next year four, is actually a legitimate question. The collection of signatures for this law, Article 17 of the Trade Act, is ordered. I think we should think hard. The worst solution that is suggested or "hearing" would be to think in this case and change the law on referendum and human initiative. This would be the worst possible response from this national assembly to these referendums. We should ask ourselves, and I don't think it should be a problem if we're able to test the general public. I think that today the instruments that allow this to happen and the adoption of legislation that would be acceptable to most of our citizens and would not be the case with the referendums that are now happening to us. I'd like to end now - normally I'll support this decree. I am also convinced of the success of the referendum. I am pleased, Minister, that we have failed or failed to block the public media which, I will say, has almost completely blocked the information concerning the collection of signatures and the association has nevertheless collected over 70,000 signatures. They weren't all invested. With regard to the number, I am now asking why, or if this is usually the case, Article 1 of the decree states "on the basis of the requirement of 40,000 voters". I think it would be right to write "on the basis of the requirement of 69,000 and some of the signatures filed," which was inside. I'd like the legislative department here to answer. This number is also repeated in explanation. However, as far as I have the information, more than 69,000 signatures have been formally entered into this National Assembly on 6 December 2002. If possible, I propose that this provision be amended and that it be written here: on the basis of a request of 69,000 voters, which is in accordance with the law on the referendum and the people's initiative adopted by the National Assembly at that time and at that time, as the dictatorship goes on. I think it would be right to also write in a decree how many signatures have been submitted, because this is inconsistent with what has been done. Mr Minister, I wish you that in proposing another or similar law we would be more fortunate to be able to listen to those who think a little differently and look at the problem differently. Unfortunately, this time this referendum has happened to you. I am sure and once again I stress that the referendum will be positively voted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u117	Thank you. I give my word to Ivan Christmas. He's quitting. That's why I give the word to Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The right to referendum citizens' decision is the weakness of God's authority for the supreme and those who have already seen, at the discretion of the authorities, the absolute owners of Telekom, this profitable company. The dispossessing of investors, those who with their stings have given up some of the goods and have invested excessive costs, they are the authorities, the government, and also this part of Parliament, the government party, wanted to relax. I hope it doesn't get lucky. But I don't accept the impressions of a dear referendum. As long as the government and it has signed such awards contracts in Elan and other managers in its sphere of power close to the LDS, when a one-time award is sufficient for the three referendums, such a feeling is manipulative, tasteless, unethical and unscrupulous. Obviously, the referendum is the only means in Slovenia where the humiliated and the offended can get to the bottom of justice. I see that it is predicted that traders who are also without rights, who have also been deprived of all rights in their Sunday work, with the right to respect for the family, will have to resort to the same means. I wonder when the government will realize that it has been set up and elected on behalf of the people and will also be ready to rule for the people. So far, I'm sorry, colleagues, here in the Liberal Democracy and the United List, you've confirmed so many laws that undercut the smallest Slovenian citizen. Where is there some responsibility for citizens of Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u119	Thank you. I'm giving the word to Franc Kangler, who isn't. That's why I give the floor to Branko Kelemini.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! This decision, which we have today on the table, as well as the referendum initiative supported by our citizens and citizens in such a large number, shows some interesting trend or expression of the will of the people in a way that was in fact not normal in the past in this country; somehow only things were regulated through interest groups, such or otherwise, which were more or less in the creation of power, in the formation of laws, slightly more clearly taken into account, as it is today or lately. It seems that the real strength of a political group in this country has become so large that it has become completely invisible to all the minor problems that weigh a large number of people, a large number, including over a hundred thousand individual beneficiaries. And this vast majority, of course, ignores this, because there is a large majority in Parliament and it can do what it likes. It is true that it is possible to reflect this situation that people must express their will in this way, even a weakened position, which is almost absent, although it is now clearly defined as the opposition also by the Young Slovenia Party, so that some of these types are strengthened. However, it is a fact that the opposition, by drawing attention to all these irregularities and anomalies that are taking place and which this authority is forcing by means of so-called forced solutions, cannot in fact change them. In adopting this proposal, I think, in fact, we have drawn attention to all these facts in the previous law or in the already adopted law. We have also warned that this is a large number of beneficiaries and that it would be fair and fair to take into account at least some better relationship what they have proposed, but, Mr Minister, you have strictly rejected this, of course with some strange arguments, and you have not agreed to any better solution, but you have said that we are not here on the market and we have nothing to negotiate. Well, today you have received or for some time now it is clear that you have received a severe lesson. And I think that, given the number of beneficiaries and the number of signatures collected, the great non-trust of your government or your work, and it would be very serious to consider whether it would be necessary, because of your conduct, of your own initiative, to offer a derogation. The 500 million costs that will arise because the people must exercise their interest or have the right to exercise their constitutional interest will in fact cost us all, all taxpayers. And it's an unnecessary expense. If you gave only 500 million tolars to our congregation, the municipality of Sevnica, one of the poorest congregations in the country, do you know how many jobs would be opened to me for these 500 million? And what would we do for this 500 million? But now they will go to nothing, or even something will happen, that the government, a country that, in spite of having made the law more delicately, will still endure something, but now it can happen, of course you will try with various procedural complications and constitutional disputes and probably with the court and so on, to exercise your will. That's what we expect. We expect complications, but regardless of whether there is a need to return a significantly higher proportion than you did, as even the beneficiaries have been willing to accept it, it will indeed be your fault, Mr Minister. In fact, you'll be guilty unless, of course, you fake things. And this is going to cost more than 10 billion, maybe some damage. If we gave 15 billion, it might be saved. Now you're gonna have to give 20 or 25 or 30, I don't know how it's gonna vote. And this is really your fault. And you are the one who caused this country enormous economic damage. And for those billions that will be caused, you, Mr Minister, should actually step down. Or at least offer a discount. If you don't feel that responsibility, that's your business. In our country, of course, anything is possible. But this financial effect, the negative one that will happen for our country, is actually on this, on the decisions that you have made and also on the coalition, and in particular on the LDS coalition. Now, of course, this party, which is also a government party, the public party, is taking advantage because it also has the most mayors in the field of Slovenia, is taking advantage of this possibility and, of course, is strengthening its role and is jumping the government in the back, if I say so. And we get points, he collects points on this account. And that price will be paid at the end by the minister, you and your ruling elite, who, of course, are or are with her in this great game. That's it. I hope that you will take this responsibility and take appropriate action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-24.ana.u121	Thank you. I'd have the word "magic." Kramberger, but there's no Kramberger. That's why I give my word to Janez Cimperman. You have 19 seconds, Mr. Cimperman. He's not here either. Andrej Fabjan. He's not here. Willy Trophynik, he's in, he's out. Yuri Malovrew, he's calling it off. And Janez Spodnik. And we closed the debate. I conclude this general debate on the proposal for a decree. The amendment to the motion for a decision is not tabled and therefore there is no possibility to discuss the individual points of the decision. And we can go to the vote. I call on Members to come to the Chamber because we will decide on a proposal for a decision on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network. I am voting on this motion for a ruling. Let's be careful, please. We're voting. May I have your attention, and we're voting. 57 of us were present, 52 voted in favour of the motion for a decree, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The motion for a decision shall be adopted. This concludes item 2 of the agenda as well as today's meeting of the National Assembly. We'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the first point. Thank you for your attention and good night.
