ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u1	I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. There is a great deal of opportunity for us to end our work during the regular session of the 13th session. You, who are in the lobby of the great hall, I invite you to come to the hall to allow the work of the national assembly to begin. May I ask you to place your ballot cards in the voting facilities so that we have an approximate review of the presence in the Chamber. Look, before we begin, I would like to say to you that in the framework of this meeting we have to make decisions on paragraphs 5, 15 and 16, in addition to ratifications. If the National Assembly were to be concluded and there were no major debates, we could finish the work today and tomorrow at the latest. So it seems to me that it is good to know that in this sense we will have the opportunity to exhaust all items of the agenda in the course of this meeting, except those transferred at this meeting. I ask you in this respect for attention. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, good morning and good afternoon. Allow us to proceed with the 13th meeting by identifying our presence, and I must inform you that there are a lot of colleagues and colleagues missing before that, so I mentioned the problem of attention to decision-making earlier. The colleagues Delak, Petan, Pukšič, Zamernik, Vizjak, Kavtičnik, Kovtičar, Kontič, Rupar, Juban, Marsič, Podobnik, Fabian, Possonec, Gaber, Trophynik, Malofnik, Brenčič, Cebulj, Peterle, Poturata, Weber, Merlo, Pucko and Simšič are missing. My friend Merlo's here. So there's a lot of colleagues missing. The National Assembly will, of course, be concluded, but if we want to decide about all things today, we must be colleagues and colleagues, most of them present all day. So this requires some discipline from us, and I ask you for it, and I thank you for that understanding. So I think, given the scope of our work, we may already be doing work today, and not later than tomorrow. Today, we will move on to the 5th item of the agenda after we know our presence. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There's 55 of us in the hall. All right, we're gonna have to rediscover the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. Colleagues and colleagues, we find presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button, otherwise I will have to suspend the session in 15 minutes. There are 48 present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. As we say, we're going to move on to 5. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on VU Insurance, Speedy Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the Minister want a word on the proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance. Does the chairman or representative of the board want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He also does not wish to speak with the representative of the Secretariat. Procedural? Please, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u2	I suggest we temporarily skip this agenda item-- number five?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u3	That's point five.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u4	Well, the one you started with. So that we can check some more things, especially with the representatives of the committee, of which there is no one to be authorised; there is neither a President nor a Vice-President of the Committee. So I suggest we return to this point at the end of the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u5	Good. I will put this proposal to the vote. If most of the national council agrees, we'll postpone the point. You have heard the arguments, this is a procedural proposal that I am putting to the vote. In this case, we're going to move on to the 8th item of the agenda. 51 present, 41 for, 10 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted; in this regard, we have postponed the decision on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the insurance law. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Kingdom of Spain on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of evasion in connection with income and property taxes, with the Protocol. I expect representatives of the government to join us as soon as possible. If any of you hadn't asked us to wait for them, we'd have started anyway. It's a package of ratifications. Does the chairman want a word? [[He does.]] Chairman of the committee, colleague Kacin, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At this point in the agenda, I would like to say a few words, which also apply to all other ratifications at today's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u7	Hang on a second, buddy Kacin. Can I please have peace in the hall? You have the word, the only one. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u8	I would like to say that none of these points on the Committee on Foreign Policy have made it difficult. At the closing point, we have also considered point 11 and have also approved this, by calling on all colleagues and colleagues to vote in favour of the ratification laws of all these agreements, which are in the following points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, we will have to go, of course, in accordance with the procedure through all the proposals of the laws. I ask first, does any of the members of the Group wish to speak on this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] Members of Parliament and Members? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law before the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the assembly should, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure, only vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. This proposal will not, of course, be adopted if at least one third of those present oppose it. Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? He won't, so I'm putting him to a vote. Please, if the National Assembly votes on the proposal to vote on the law in full. May I have your attention in the hall, please? Colleagues and colleagues, there are enough Members and Members present in the Chamber. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Most of the colleagues in all the parliamentary groups are present. In such a way that we should pay attention to the ratification procedure. As has been said, there are no major political comments, but a little attention to doing the procedure correctly must be given. 60 of us are almost in the hall. Once again, I ask and put to the vote whether we can make a full decision on the proposal for a law. Please vote on this procedural decision. We are voting on a procedural decision. 54. 50 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. We can therefore decide on the proposal for a law ratifying this Convention in its entirety. We're voting. 50 present. 49 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and profit taxes with the Protocol. He wants the word "secretariat"? Emissary groups? The MPs and the MPs? No one wants to discuss it. We are also voting first on the procedural proposal to make a full decision on the law. I put this proposal to the vote. We are voting on a procedural proposal to vote in full on the ratification law. 47. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] Thus, we can vote on the law on the ratification of the Convention in its entirety. We're voting, please. We are voting on a proposal for a law on ratification of the Convention. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We're voting. 55 present. 55 for, no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] In doing so, we have adopted this proposal for a law and have thus concluded the 9th point. We're moving on to 10. On the proposal of the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on cooperation in the fight against organised crime and illegal trafficking in illicit drugs, psychotropic substances and previous compounds, terrorism and other serious criminal acts. Any of the qualified speakers want a word? Members and Members of Parliament. [[Nobody.]] We are voting first on the procedural proposal to vote on the law as a whole. I put this proposal to the vote. May I have your attention, please? Vote on the procedural proposal to vote in full on the ratification law. We're voting. 49 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] This way we can vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. 54 present. 53 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The proposed law is fully adopted and thus concludes this item on the agenda. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Police Office by a statement of the Presidency of the European Union of Slovenia and Europol. The chairman of the committee, colleague Kacin, informed us that the Committee has also discussed this point today. The report's not on the table yet. And I need to ask my colleagues or my colleagues if they're insisting that you get it. [[No, no, ……]] Then we can proceed with the point. There are no amendments. If anyone wants an explanation, the chairman of the committee is in the Chamber. Would any of the qualified discussers like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we will continue to decide on a proposal for a procedural decision to decide the law on ratification in its entirety. We are voting on this procedural proposal. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the procedural decision of 54 present. 51 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] That is how we voted on this procedural proposal. And we can decide on the proposal for a full ratification law. We're voting. We are voting on the bill as a whole. 53 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. Let's move on to 12. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on economic and technological cooperation. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? I'm guessing there's no one. I am also putting to the vote a procedural proposal to vote on the law on ratification as a whole. Please, if you'll excuse yourself, regarding this proposal. We're in the middle of a vote. 51 present, 50 for, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] The National Assembly has decided that we can vote on the bill as a whole. We are voting on the proposal as a whole. 49 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Hellenic Republic on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? I'm guessing there's no one. We will first vote on the procedural proposal to vote in full on the law. We're voting, please. I ask that colleagues and colleagues vote in a kind manner on this procedural proposal. 52 present, 51 for, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] We therefore vote on the bill as a whole. We're voting. Colleagues and colleagues, we are voting on the bill as a whole. 50 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted, and this has also concluded the 13th point. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Kingdom of Denmark on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes, with the Protocol. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will first vote on the procedural proposal to make a full decision on the law. We're voting. Of the 52 present, 50 supported this proposal, and no one objected. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. That is why we can make a full decision on the bill. We are voting on the bill as a whole. 52 present, 50 for, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that we have also fully adopted this law. This concludes agenda item 14. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Promotion of Tourism. At this point too, we will wait for government representatives. Although this is the law of the Member States, it is possible for someone to insist on the government’s position. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members for consideration by the assembly. Comrade Dušan Vukko is first-signed and is with us. Does the proposer want a word? [[He does.]] Comrade Wolf, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, President. I'll try to be as short as I can. The Act on the Promotion of Tourism, adopted by the National Assembly in 1998, also contains a chapter in which this law also regulates the area and issues of tourist fees. It should be pointed out that the chapter was summarised under the previous tourist tax law and at that time there was a series of efforts and efforts by the municipalities to modernise and radically amend the law in this part. The law defines the tax in Article 21 as a flat-rate monetary amount paid by the tourist for each day of his stay in a place outside the residence. The tourist tax is the revenue of the municipality, which is then intended by the municipality to cover the costs related to the benefits and services that the tourist receives free of charge in the place where he resides. These include various tourist information, guide and other information boards and boards, records on promotional materials and other means of promotion, means for events, maintenance, park regulation, walkways, vegetables, for example for regulating running routes. According to the law, legal persons and entrepreneurs, individuals and paralegals, as well as companies that accept tourists to stay under the law, are obliged to collect a tourist tax and to charge it by 25 days a month for the previous month and to spend it on a special account of the municipality.In the past, there have been many times, and it is still happening that these persons, the debtors of these provisions of the law, did not respect it and did not allocate the fees collected to the municipality, but the funds paid by tourists at the time of payment of the services, kept their bills on their jury and solved their liquidity problems. This practice has caused and today has caused difficulties for municipalities to finance the programmes financed by the tourist tax, as the programmes are usually implemented and the municipality does not have the resources provided for in this title on the revenue side. In dealing with such problems, it has been shown that the current Act on the Promotion of Tourism does not have a provision which would allow the competent tax authority to recover an unscheduled tourist tax following a shorter, faster procedure, since for such a procedure, the tax authority in the Act on the Promotion of Tourism does not have a specific mandate, as provided for in Article 20 for the recovery of the compulsory membership of the local tourism organisation. We want to achieve two objectives and pursue them by proposing this amendment. Firstly, in particular, to ensure that municipalities receive the funds from the tourist tax and thus allow for smooth financing of the programmes financed by the tourist tax. Secondly, to increase the discipline in the area of the decommissioning of the tourist tax and to strengthen the responsibility of all those who are legally obliged to collect the tourist tax and to allocate it to a special account of the congregation. Finally, let me stress that the law is not opposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that it is supported by the Tourist Association of Slovenia and that the proposal has also been aligned with the competent tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. We support and do not oppose the amendments that have received adequate support from the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. I'm sending letters and ambassadors. No one wants to discuss it. Then we can move on to decision-making. Please. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. I would still like to ask the proposer something. The bill is very short. There's only one article. So we understand this problem, that at the same time those who collect the tourist tax do not take these tourist taxes to the competent congregation. However, paragraph 4 of this article states: "The Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia shall conclude a contract with the municipality." I ask whether it is then meant that, in any case, the tax administration must conclude a contract with the municipality. That is to say, even where they do not have these problems, because those who collect a tourist tax respect the law and also separate this tourist tax. I ask this mainly because the next paragraph states that the tax administration can charge 3% of this recovered tourist tax. Thus, as it is written, little means that regardless of whether or not this tourist tax is paid simply gives rise to 3% of tax administration. I would suggest to the proposer that he might consider a slightly corrected fourth paragraph of this Article. That is to say that the congregation can conclude in this article because if it is written, then each congregation will make a decision and conclude these contracts at its own discretion. However, if it is written as it is, there will, of course, be a simple conclusion of these contracts everywhere, and the tax administration will, even where they do not have these problems by decommissioning the tourist tax, simply collect 3% of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my colleague Vukko's proposal to come forward at the end of the discussions of other colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Onion, you have the floor. We're in the middle of a general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Let me say that I will support this amendment to the very law of my colleague Wolf. However, I would give only one brief answer to Mr Sok, my colleague, that this is prescribed by the tax administration law. However, let me say from experience, until the tax administration law defined this, there was a significantly higher price for tax exposures, which were also legally bound by this tourist tax to exempt it, that tax administrations were significantly more expensive than now provided for by law. In such a way that this matter is as a matter of thought, but the law so provides and according to the law Mr. Vukko has also prepared it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word before we give it to my friend Wolf? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Wolf, you have the floor. You don't want to. My friend Mario Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u16	Only Mr Sok would be told that the amendment government had deleted paragraph 4 and the committee had accepted it. Well, it's irrelevant. I mean, we'll probably take it, too, because you're right.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u17	Comrade Wolf, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u18	There's not much to add to what the predecessors have already said. There's only so much left for colleague Sok. Here is the government's amendment to delete this 3% - this is laid down by the regulation. It is also true that the contract to recover the duty of the municipality to conclude a contract with the tax administration is enshrined in the tax procedure law. However, it should be pointed out that these 3% relate only to the part of the funds that is then forcibly recovered. In no municipality, I think, in Slovenia, which deals more with tourist tax - this is about areas that are more touristly developed - there is no dilemma that they do not conclude these contracts because they are interested. The essence of this bill is to give the tax authority the opportunity to recover after a reduced procedure. Since in the past the tax authority had to first carry out a full review of the method of collecting the tourist tax and only on the basis of an inspection did it issue a decision. The Act on the Promotion of Tourism gives the municipalities a clear mandate that, if they wish to collect a tourist tax, they must also adopt the appropriate decision to regulate it. By law, the congregation is competent to supervise the collection of taxes, and this control is carried out by sending reports. Therefore, we have also written down the "procedure" in the second paragraph that the municipality, the competent tax authority, informs the competent tax authority of the period in which the tax was not carried out in accordance with the law and, on the basis of this notification, issues a decision, notice and, unless paid within a specified period, takes the form of compulsory recovery, which means that the giro account of a legal or natural person who has not done so is essentially blocked. So these concerns are of course in place, but the matter is also completed through practice, so that there will be no problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you. According to the answers I've just received, I'd just like to complement myself. Because of this state of emergency, which reigns in this House with these swift and reduced procedures, you cannot follow all of this. And then in a moment, you look at something -- I have to say, I haven't seen the government amendment. I just had a problem with what the government has proposed to delete. So I'm going to support this amendment. However, I think that this fourth paragraph could also remain in the article, insofar as the proposaler would have changed this written-up dictatorship slightly. Thus, it would not mean that the congregation has to make a treaty - that is, that it is allowed to conclude it if it has problems; but if it has no problems, why should it conclude a contract and give a part of the tourist tax to someone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word in the general debate? If that is not the case, I will conclude the general debate now. We are moving on to a second reading, namely to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. I think that we are now on the verge of needing a presence, and I must call my colleagues and colleagues to the Chamber, because after the discussion we will vote on Articles 1 and 2 and the title. So I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the two amendments. The amendment of the government and the amendment of the committee. Anyone want to explain their views? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we will move our colleagues and colleagues to a decision first on the government's amendment to Article 1. I put this amendment to Article 1 to the vote. Please vote on the Government's amendment to Article 1 of the bill. 48 present. 41 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We can vote on the amendment of the committee to Article 1. Please, we're voting. We vote on the amendment of the committee to Article 1 of the law. It's a bill. Colleagues and colleagues, for the second time, we will decide on the fate of the amendment of the committee to Article 1 of the bill. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment of the committee to Article 1 of the bill. Please, if you vote. 51 present. 44 for, no one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] We are now voting on the whole article. We are voting on the whole article. Please clarify the content of Article 1 of the bill. We're voting. 47 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] We are now voting on Article 2. It's a debate. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the text of Article 2 of the bill. Please give your vote. We vote on the content of Article 2 of the bill. 46 present. 40 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] Article 2 is adopted. We have an amendment of the board to the title of the bill. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we will decide on the amendment of the committee to the bill's title. We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the board. 52 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] That's how we changed the address. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Do qualified applicants wish to table amendments to Article 1 or Title? [[Nobody.]] I ask the secretariat whether the bill is harmonised. Yes, it is. Okay. Then we can move on to a full decision on the law. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on the bill as a whole. Please, if you vote. Colleagues and colleagues, we are voting on the bill as a whole. 52 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The proposed law has been adopted and we have thus concluded this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Road Safety Act after a reduced procedure. That's also the law of the House. A group of Members with a first-signed colleague of Lavrinsk put him in the procedure. I'm asking him if he wants a word? He does. The proposer or representative of the candidates, Comrade Lavrinc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! First, some clarifications I need to make so that we can act better. Why did we file this marriage? Because the law, which in fact only applies for a short period of time, requires extensive changes in the road safety law. These changes are being prepared by the government, but in our opinion, these interventions to the law are so great that it will not be possible to proceed in accordance with the rules of the reduced procedure. We therefore considered that in some way we would solve this tourist season and the biker season by removing the anomalies with the minor correction needed under this parliamentary law, and of course we would discuss larger issues when we consider the government's proposal. In the opinion of the secretariat, it is also a matter of such minor changes that the justification of the reduced procedure is more than obvious. First, I'd like to explain what's going on in this marriage. It's actually two areas. One area of motor activities and anomalies that crept into the law is, not by the will of Members, but by the will of those who prepared the law and each time we wanted a special explanation, we waved through a European directive, which, of course, we did not have Members at that time. The second part, however, relates to the tourist trains we missed at the time of the adoption of the law. In the assessment of the situation and in the objectives and principles of the law, you have been able to see that it is firstly a matter of adopting such a law in accordance with the European Directive to allow for the examination of the engine once. This was the case after the law in force. So when someone under the age of 18 took the test, the driving licence stipulated that he could drive a motorcycle with a maximum power of 125 cubic cm and then when he reached the age, that is, when he was older, that limit was erased. This law, which is now in force, has led to the fact that motorists had to take the test three times, in our opinion, in an entirely unjustified manner. It is true that it is a particular category of drivers or drivers that are more at risk than others, but it is also true that knowledge of road traffic regulations and driving with a motor that has usually been the smallest in these test centres and this triple and, of course, triple payment has exceeded reasonable limits. We therefore propose, of course, that this anomaly be eliminated. In such a way that as an age limit at which a test for an engine can be performed without restriction, we only set 21 years. In our opinion, this is an age that is also in marriage as a marginal age, even for professional drivers of larger and more dangerous vehicles. However, the second part of the changes is linked to tourist trains. There was no such thing as marriage before. Because these tourist trains have been a very useful role, in our opinion, because they have prevented tourists from showing up on the roads with their own means of transport, especially where visits to various wine-growing places and similar stops have thus, of course, allowed tourists to have fun without borders and there was no danger of sitting behind the wheel. Since the law was bad in this respect and overlooked this possibility, these trains were treated as tractors with a trailer. This meant that in addition to the tractor, which is the basis for this locomotive driver, so to speak, there was only one car attached and, of course, there was a lot of bad will. In our view, the solution that she has now proposed is fine. However, I would like to propose on behalf of the applicants, because we are only now receiving a table review of the amendments to do this first general reading and then we will all date to the table review of the amendments and, of course, when we also examine them, we will do a second and third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. You were the chairman of the competent committee that dealt with this. Would you or someone else like to communicate their views to the National Assembly on this bill? [[No, no, ……]] Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] I'm asking Members of Parliament, do they want a word? Yes, the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, the Social Democratic Party. Let's go in one order. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the client of young Slovenia, we agree that certain provisions of the Road Safety Act are illogical and non-lifelike. The provisions of Articles 124 and 129 of the Act require drivers of category A every two years starting at the age of 16 to complete a total of three examinations for this category. But we know that many or most of the schools don't even have motors that are over 250 cubic meters, so most of them do tests on the same engines, they say 125 cubic. By repealing the provisions of the law governing the acquisition of a driving licence for category A test referred to above, let us also apply to Directives of the European Union which place more practically the restriction of category A on a motor cycle whose power does not exceed 25 kilowatts and where the power ratio of the engine against engine mass does not exceed 0,16 kilowatts per kg. I would like to stress that we do not want to reduce preventive safety on our roads with this correction, because we know that motorists are among the most vulnerable road users. But we just want to fix some nonsense in the marriage. The proposed amendments to the law will be supported by Members of the Youth Slovenia Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We also support the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal for amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act because it eliminates this illogicality, and in particular we support this bill because it introduces substantial innovation in our area, this is the introduction of special practical training for the first category of motor vehicles drivers in the Republic of Slovenia, which is in line with European directives and which, in our opinion, is of exceptional and crucial importance for improving road safety. The principle enshrined in Article 5 of the aforementioned amendment of the Law, which corrects Article 124 of the Basic Law on Road Traffic Safety, is the first step and introduces a specific practical part of the preparation of the driving test for driving motor bikes in case of suspension of the restriction at 21 years of age. We are convinced that this news is necessary, welcome and that it is also in line with what we wrote in the stage of the adoption of the national road safety programme in the Republic of Slovenia. We are also convinced that the consistent implementation of this principle, as set out in Article 5, is also conditional on the preparation of appropriate ranges and, last but not least, appropriate personnel, because it is only in this way that we will be able to stop the plague that is taking place on Slovenian roads and which is particularly present in the most risky group of drivers, this is for motor bike drivers. I think that this is the logical response of the National Assembly to the increased number of motor bike drivers and we are obliged to ensure that practical training of drivers of both motor bikes and drivers of all categories of motor vehicles is introduced as soon as possible into practice. We expect that the comprehensive amendment of the law, which has already been announced today, will go in this urgent direction. We also support the part of the law that allows for the operation of two or more coaches. In our opinion, all local specificities in terms of limiting competition, which was raised at the meeting of the Committee, can be regulated by municipal decisions. We are of the opinion that this is essential because these tourist trains are important in as many environments in Slovenia and, last but not least, how to remove traffic from tourist centres, remove traffic from tourist destinations, remove traffic, parking, and thus improve traffic safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We continue with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. Slovenian National Party Group, then the Slovenian People's Party Group and liberal democracy. Please. You have the floor, Comrade Barovich. Behind you, Comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. In any event, in the Slovenian national party, we agree with the amendments to this Act, which regulate the three-time performance of the A-category examination in the provisions of the articles that are changing on a logical basis. The second point of view of the Slovenian national party is that the law on amendments and additions to the road safety law should or should be supplemented and extended and renewed much more than this proposal, which, as I said, is acceptable to the Slovenian national party. Why am I talking like that? For two reasons. The first reason is our adoption of the national road safety programme and the second reason was the amendments to the road safety law tabled by the Slovenian national party. And if you allow me to remind you, this is a logical and rational decision on the terms governing the winter conditions and, secondly, a logical and rational decision on the provisions relating to the withdrawal of the driver's licence, according to the categories of vehicles. While in the Slovenian national party, once again, we support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Traffic Safety, colleague Lavrinc, once again, we stress that this law needs to be further streamlined, further reformed and that we will be in Slovenia's national party, and we ask you to think about it in the future, insist on our views that rationality should also be regulated in areas where our party has already tabled a proposal for amendments. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Comrade Kangler, position of the SLS Group, behind you colleague Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we will support amendments to the law and amendments to the road safety law. However, we would like to point out that when we adopted this law in the previous term, we have made a great promise from this law. This is not a proposal for a law amending, first in this National Assembly. This means that at the time we adopted a law that is not written on the skin of Slovenian transport policy. That we then accepted, as far as this segment is concerned, a law where someone with a 125 - cubic - centimetre motor bike can develop speed up to 200 miles an hour, while another with a 500 - cubic - mile - an - hour - an - hour bike. The fact is that the law needs to be thoroughly amended. Thoroughly amend and correct, as experts from the Ministry of the Interior themselves find that the law is incomplete. Therefore, as the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also appeal to the government and the Ministry to prepare as soon as possible thorough amendments to the Road Safety Act. What the first-signed Max Lavrinca group proposed with this amendment is only one segment to be corrected. We believe that there are many more of these segments in this law, so we expect the government - given the promises it has made to individual Members, as well as to the Committee on Internal Policy, we should already have this government proposal for a law amending the Road Traffic Safety Act in the National Assembly, but it has not yet been in the National Assembly. I hope that this law will come on the parliamentary bench as soon as possible after these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. These were the views of the SLS Group of Members. The views of the LDS Group will be presented by counterpart Jakič. Then any of the other members of the group would like a word? [[No, no, ……]] However, colleague Vukko has been reported for general discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u32	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Safety Act. We believe ourselves, as the proposaler has pointed out, that this law seeks to eliminate illogicality and inequality among drivers contained in the applicable road safety law. In this way, we wish to align this law in some way with the 1991 Council Directive of the European Union. Illogicality is expressed in the definitions, as we have heard, on the basis of which category A drivers are required to carry out the driving test three times - first for the category up to 125 cubic metres, then up to 350 and third for obtaining a driving licence without restriction. The proposal of the law still - this should be stressed - preserves the sequence in passing or obtaining the A-category driver's licence, from subcategory A to 125, category A with a limitation, to category A without restriction for younger motor-wheel drivers. In accordance with the Directives of the European Union, however, the proposal sets a ceiling that does not impose any restrictions on drivers as it is assumed to be mature and responsible persons or drivers who can properly assess their ability to drive an engine and are aware of all the consequences of misconduct and infringements of road traffic regulations and therefore act in traffic. As I said, in the same situation, older drivers are also doing their first examination, and interesting professional drivers are also driving much harder vehicles than motor vehicles when they are doing their exam. And, of course, there can be a terrible illogical situation, when a person with a B-category, a real driver of a car, if you want, comes to the exam again and falls to the test of knowledge, then a very strange situation arises, which in this case means you can't drive a car, and so on. So, this illogicality is what we're trying to do now. However, the second amendment, as has already been said, seeks to introduce into the law the legal basis for the carriage of several coaches for the transport of persons for tourist purposes. The current law does not define a road tourist train as a special type of vehicle. And as you know, dear colleagues, colleagues, in the previous year or years before last year, a tourist offer on Bled and Ljubljana was promoted by a tourist train, which became very popular, both among tourists and between citizens and citizens. In Slovenia, as you know, four tourist trains officially drive, in Ljubljana, in Podčetrk, Catež and in Bled, and they also think about their introduction, as we hear, in other tourist destinations. These tourist trains are so popular due to the favourable cost of driving and other advantages that, of course, the situation created by the complaint started to stop these trains from essentially causing economic damage and, above all, an unequal situation. We would therefore like to stress in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia or call on all colleagues and colleagues to adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Safety Act, together with some amendments. Of course, there will be talks about concrete amendments when we vote on them ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have thus exhausted the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. My colleague Vukko gave up the debate, so he signed up with his colleague Lavrinz, and that is the only one who has a timeless debate, and I will limit everyone else to 5 minutes later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Before I introduced the law, I was sure you didn't have a colleague and a colleague on the table to review the amendments, and now I see when I came back, the review came. So there's no obstacle to ending the process. So it wouldn't be misunderstood that I had a desire to follow a regular procedure or something. We insist. Well, the second thing I would like to say on behalf of the motioners is that we support the amendments of the Committee and colleague Vukko, the co-proposer of this law, but we do not support the amendments of the government, because we think they are somehow trying to put the matter back where it was. On the other hand, each amendment proposal will also explain why we do not think it is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. My friend Barovic wants a word. Then who else wants it? Otherwise, we will proceed to the second reading and to the vote on the amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm gonna take a minute from my respectable colleagues. I, too, am absolutely adhering to the opinion of my colleague Max Lavrinz. I myself will support all the amendments tabled by both the committee and the individuals. But I will oppose the amendment of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Please. Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Respectable all together! Just for a little while. In principle, I certainly support this proposal for a law. At the same time, I would criticise the Government, as has already been mentioned, that in general this law on road safety is extremely poor in certain provisions. While the government is proposing new amendments, even in this proposal, which I have already examined, not all things are covered, as would be necessary, and I am surprised that such inconsistencies are in line with European rules in this law. This is only, of course, but otherwise I certainly agree with these proposals, which are before us today, as well as the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u39	All right, buddy Kelemin. If I understand correctly, you are the last person to want to participate in the general debate. That is why we will now move on to a second reading, namely a discussion and decision on individual articles and amendments tabled. There's a six-page review of the amendments on the bench ahead of you. We have them all in front of us. We can move on to debate and decision-making. First, on the three amendments tabled to Article 1. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to the decision on the first amendment or amendment under order number 1 to Article 1. The proposer shall be the Internal Policy Committee. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1. We're in the middle of a vote. Too little attention in the hall. I'll wait a minute. I think most of the colleagues from all the parliamentary groups are present. I think there's almost 60 of us in the hall. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. Let's vote! The proposer shall be the Internal Policy Committee. We're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall! 49 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 1 of the bill. Let's vote! The proposer shall be the Internal Policy Committee. We're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall! 53 present. 51 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Finally, we decide on the amendment under order number 3 to Article 1. Let's vote! 51 present, 10 for, 39 versus. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are now deciding on the text of Article 1 in its entirety. We're voting. We vote on the text of Article 1 in its entirety. I'm asking for peace in the hall! 52 present, 51 for, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. I am putting to the debate Article 2 where there are no amendments. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will therefore decide on the text of Article 2. We're voting. 50 in attendance, 45 in, one in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of Article 2 is adopted. We have an amendment to Article 3. I'm asking, does anyone want a word? Comrade Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u40	In view of his colleague Lavrinz's announcement that we will also respond with arguments to the government's views on the amendments, I would say that the Government's arguments do not stand. The law already regulates economic driving and also Article 79 provides that minor deviations in dimensions are possible, but not in the case of loads of loads. We believe that the proposal to exclude tourist trains is inappropriate. Whatever the case, when it comes to economic driving and also to driving with tourist trains, there is, clearly, less traffic flow. However, it should be pointed out that these transports are carried out on local roads and in areas which are tourist areas which are also intended for less intensive transport. Thus, the Government's arguments are not the most convincing, so we will vote against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u41	Mr Vukko justified the vote against the amendment of the government. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 3, which you have on page 2 of the review. We're voting. 52 present, 6 in, 42 in. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the text of Article 3 in its entirety. Before that, I will demand peace in the Chamber, because otherwise the National Assembly will not be elected in this vote. We vote on the full text of the article. 54 present, 48 for, one up. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We do not have any amendments tabled under Article 4. Does anyone want a word anyway? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will decide on the text of Article 4 in its entirety. Let's vote! Peace in the hall! 49 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of the Article has been adopted. Four amendments have been tabled for Article 5. I'm opening a debate on them. Comrade Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u42	With regard to the fourth amendment under point 4, proposed by the Government, the following should be said. The proposed part of the amendment is already contained in the amendment of the committee under the third point, where what the government has warned has already been resolved. However, as regards the proposal to amend the fourth paragraph proposed by the Government and propose a new text, on behalf of the applicants, I believe that it is unacceptable, for one reason in particular, because they would then abolish the fundamental purpose of the change in substance. It is the case that the government again provides for the acquisition of a driving licence without a category A restriction, namely that a person must have a driving licence, either up to 125 cubic cm or 11 kilowatts or A category with a restriction, and that he must carry out a special practical test. We stand in the position if a person is over 21 years of age and first carries out an examination for driving licence A category, then performs the examination and, of course, must also perform the examination with vehicle A category which is unlimited. We have therefore also written in the proposal of the novelty that a practical part of this examination should also be supplemented by this content. And one more thing. Our view is that the proposed solution is fully in line with the directive relating to driving licences, which expressly states that two-year experience of driving with smaller motor bikes can be eliminated after an additional 21 years. And one more thing. For those who, for example, will be carrying out a driving licence A category with a restriction of 20 years, but it will not be two years before they have obtained this driving licence, the person will be able to obtain a driving licence A category without restriction only on condition - and here we have done so - to perform a special practical part of the examination, which is also in accordance with the Directive. Therefore, of course, we will reject the amendment under order number 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u43	Anyone else want a word? Then we will have to clarify the consistency of Article 5. Anybody else want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u44	However, I do not think there will be a problem with coordination, but nevertheless, I would like to say that I will also not support this amendment of the government, because the system which is now introduced with amendments in the basic text gives, of course, the stage that was desired and the possibility and the need for people who learn and drive engines to have some internship behind them. And that's the whole point of the story. It can't be the essence of the whole story just by making another exam. The government's amendment, which we are now talking about, is in this direction that there should be an additional examination, regardless of whether someone from 16 years of age has driven the engine and, of course, passed the test for this category up to 125, then another restriction, and only after two years have passed on the hardest vehicle. In this case, of course, there is no need for you. And that's settled. This amendment would essentially return this procedure, which I think is well written in the bill, to an additional "examination". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u45	Anyone else want a word? My friend Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u46	I'd like to replicate my fellow Member a little bit, because I agree with that. I think the candidates in their amendments have prepared this well. See, once a person passes a driving licence for a passenger car and within 10 years or 5 years, road safety legislation changes, and then everyone should take a test, practical or theoretical. I think that it is incorrect, once the candidate has completed the category of examination, to say A that he no longer needs to carry out this examination, if he has already obtained a permit, a licence to carry out these vehicles shall be made. But after the age of his years, when he gained experience in lower engine categories, if I may say so, it is entirely appropriate that he can begin to drive a larger engine category with his completed age, which is above those kilowatts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. Anyone else want a word? Could I have your attention, please? I will lead the decision by voting on the amendments under order numbers, and in the event that the amendments under order number 2 and 3 are voted on, I will assess the amendment under order number 4 as irrelevant. Who's objecting to this? [[No, no, ……]] Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] So we can move on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 5. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 5. Please make up your mind. 55 present. 49 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 52 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. 57 present, 51 to, 2 to. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I note that this amendment has also been adopted and, in accordance with the previous announcement on the fourth, we will not decide because we have adopted the amendment under order numbers 2 and 3. We will now vote on the text of Article 5 in its entirety, as amended. We're voting. 51 present, 45 for, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of Article 5 is adopted. No amendments were tabled to Article 6 of the proposal. Does anyone want a word anyway? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will decide on the text of Article 6. We're voting. 57 present, 50 for, one against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of Article 6 is adopted. Colleagues and colleagues, we have an amendment to Article 7. Anybody want to talk about him? [[He doesn't want to.]] We decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 7 on page 4 of the review. We're voting. 56 present, 51 for, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the full text of the article. Please, if you can vote on the text of Article 7 in full. 52 present, 49 for, one against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. The Government has tabled an amendment to Article 8. My friend Wolf wants to discuss him.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u48	I think that the Government's proposal to delete Article 8 is in line with the previous amendments proposed but not adopted. The aim of the applicants was to set out in this Article exactly if a person first carries out the A category examination after an additional 21 year, but does not have previous experience in providing him with a special practical part in training to get used to heavy motorcycles because they have their own driving characteristics; and this will have to be ensured - without the implementation of the A categories with 125 cubic centimeters also for those who will then drive heavier motorcycles.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We decide on the proposal to delete this article, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment to Article 8. 55 in attendance, 4 in, 46 in. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We can decide on Article 8 as a whole. Let's vote! We decide on Article 8 as a whole. Please, if you vote. 55 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 8 has been adopted. There were no amendments to Article 9. We will be able to decide on him unless someone wants to discuss him sooner. [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the text of Article 9. We vote on the text of Article 9. 55 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text has been adopted. There are no amendments to Article 10. Does anyone want a word anyway? [[He doesn't want to.]] We decide on the text of Article 10. Let's vote! Let us vote on the text of Article 10. 55 present. 51 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text has been adopted. A group of Members with a colleague Dusan Vukko, who was first signed, proposed a new Article 10.a. You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u50	This is an amendment resulting from the opinion of the secretariat, and in some way the government's views, which sought to postpone the implementation of this law for three months. We believe that within thirty days of the entry into force of this law, with such strong and qualified administration, they can also prepare appropriate changes to the regulations of the law and to the forms with which it has the information technology at its disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u51	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will decide on the proposal for a new Article 10a. Let's vote! Let us vote on the proposal for a new Article 10. Peace in the hall, please! 56 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. One amendment has been tabled to Article 11. He's being invested by the government. Anybody want a word? Comrade Wolf. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u52	Based on the prognosis that we're going to argue. I don't think this argument is legally technical. This is a transitional provision and we cannot, in fact, introduce this article into the transitional provisions of the existing law by means of this amendment. I therefore believe that the Secretariat shares its opinion with the proposers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u53	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we will decide on the amendment to Article 11. We're voting! We vote on the amendment under order number 1 on page 5 of the review to Article 11. 55 present. 3 in, 48 in. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Now we can decide the whole article. We decide 11 whole! Please, we are deciding on Article 11 as a whole. We decide on Article 11 as a whole. 52 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Finally, by Article 12, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had tabled an amendment. Anybody want to talk about him? I'm guessing there's no one. We decide on the amendment of the government to Article 12. We're voting! Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. 51 present. 4 for, 44 for. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that we have also decided on the article. We can now decide on the text of Article 12 as a whole. Let's vote! 53 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] We have thus exhausted our decision on the amendments and on the articles. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? Then we'll decide on the title. Let's vote! We decide on the title and vote! 54 present, 48 for, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. As we move on to the third reading of the bill, I would like to point out that it is possible to submit an amendment to Articles 1, 5, 7 and 10a by qualified candidates. Who wants to do this? [[Nobody.]] Then we'll decide on consistency first? [[...]] It's consistent. Thank you very much. This means that we can make a full decision about the law. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're voting on the whole law! I'm asking for a peaceful hall! We're voting on the whole law! 56 present. 50 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. This concludes this agenda item. The 17th item of the agenda is not ready. The committee responsible will meet today at six. As far as the 18th point is concerned, I would like to tell you the following before the Vice-President has a procedural proposal. I have spoken with the President of the European Affairs Commission, my colleague Peterlet, who, as you know, has been appointed, together with my colleague Gabro, to the Slovenian delegation for participation in the Convention on the Future of Europe. Today this convention begins in Brussels, so both respected colleagues are absent. There is also a Minister without a department responsible for European affairs, Dr. Potočnik. I think that this is an important point, this is a report and we propose that, due to the reasonable absence of all important introductory speakers, the point be postponed unless, of course, the National Assembly decides otherwise. The Vice-President of the Commission would like a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Despite the fact that the European Affairs Commission has adopted a report and has also drafted it - you have it in your materials - we estimate that, as the President of the National Assembly has already mentioned, because this is the last year of accession or the year of decision, the year of completion, where three very important chapters are open, we cannot or will not solve them ourselves, and because, above all, it is a decision or where the assumptions on financing, cohesion funds, structural funds and the situation in agriculture are, we are also assessing and procedurally proposing that point 18, the regular report of the European Commission, should be put to the first possible place, I do not know whether this will be exceptional, if not, and regularly, in our opinion, this is also part of the procedural decision, it is necessary to invite the Minister for European Affairs, to whom the President of the European Affairs Commission would be present. My procedural proposal is also that I may be present at this meeting, I can also say, in the presence of the Minister for Agriculture of the Republic of Slovenia. The substance of the procedural proposal is to move this item to the first extraordinary or regular meeting, with the compulsory presence of the Minister for European Affairs, the President of the Commission for European Affairs and the Minister for Agriculture. Thank you very much. I hope that you will take this procedural proposal into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u55	We are now deciding in accordance with Article 64, paragraph 5. I understand that this was also a performance by your Group of Members. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? The government will decide who it will give to discuss the report as an authorised speaker on its behalf. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will conclude the debate and vote on the proposed decision to move this item to one of the next meetings. Let's vote, please! 52 present. 48 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u56	If you'll excuse me, you said one of the next meetings. I think it would be a good thing to say to the first regular or extraordinary session, which will be, if you allow it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u57	That is what it means, but we must be careful that the conclusions do not conflict, of course, provided that the President of the Commission, the Minister and the High Representatives of the Government are present. This is supposed to be the first session. So, we've also made this decision. We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. We have a lot of decisions and I'm asking for a meeting in the hall. The assembly will consider under this item of the agenda the proposal of the Slovenian Government to appoint the Council of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the Commission's proposal for elections, appointments and administrative matters to amend the various decisions. You have already received these proposals with material at the 14th extraordinary session, and today you have four proposals from the Judicial Council for election to the judicial function. Colleagues and colleagues! We will move on to the examination and decision-making of individual proposals. First, we will move on to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a world of agricultural land and forests of Repbulika Slovenije. The proposal was tabled by the Government. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] You have the authority. Just a minute! We should have the authority of the government, not the minister, for your performance. I'm sorry. Now it's okay. At this moment, the power to speak on behalf of the government has also come to light. Please. I'm sorry we're so pedantic, but that's gotta be it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u58	Dear Members and Members! Article 5 of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the governing body of the Fund shall be the Council of the Fund, appointed and dissolved by the Government on a proposal from the National Assembly. The Council of the Fund shall consist of nine members, who shall then elect their President from among themselves. Five members are representatives of the founder, i.e. the government. Three members are representatives of users or tenants and one is a member of workers, and the fund is not appointed by the National Assembly. The first five are from the list of government representatives and then are followed by representatives of the tenants or users. 21st Article of the Agricultural Land Fund Act also provides that until denationalisation is completed, denationalising beneficiaries shall have the right to one member of the Fund's world. So Franc Defence from Markovts is a representative of the tenants of the state agricultural land managed by the fund, Mr Milan Cajnar, Varolje, Rijeka ob Savinja, is a representative of concessionaires, Director of the forest economy Nazarje and Mrs Marija Stritar from Ljubljana is a representative of the denationalisation beneficiaries. Thus, this proposal is drawn up in accordance with the law. The government proposes that you accept it because the fund is currently without management authorities, but it is in the stage of preparing a financial plan and a work plan, so please confirm this fund's Council today.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs and the Assembly and submitted a report and a proposal for a resolution. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree appointing the Council of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years. We're voting. The first vote on the motion for a ruling was not successful, so I would like to ask your attention very much. This is the second time we have voted on the motion for a decree. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against 6. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decree amending the decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for elections, appointments and administrative matters. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the election of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for elections, appointments and administrative matters. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a motion for a decree amending the decree establishing a commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for petitions. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing a commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Petitions. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a proposal for a decree amending the decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. The first vote on the motion for a ruling has not been a success, so I would like to ask your attention again. This is the second time we have voted on the motion for a decree. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the Environment. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The MPs, the MPs? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the motion for a decree amending the decree establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The MPs, the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy. The proposal was tabled by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The MPs, the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We will now proceed to the consideration of the proposals of the Judicial Council for election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted four proposals to the National Assembly on the election to the judicial office of the Court of Justice, namely the District Judges at the district court in Koper, the two District Judges at the District Court in Trbovje and Ilirski Bistrica, and the Judges for the Offences of Ormož. Would you like a representative of the Judicial Council, Mr. Breznik, a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. The proposals were addressed by the Commission for Elections, Names and Administrative Affairs and submitted a report and proposals for resolutions to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I propose that we discuss all the proposals of the Judicial Council together. Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Božena Felician Hladnic to the judicial office of the District Court in the district court in Koper. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Sonja Železnik as a judge at the District Court in the Ilirska Bistrica District Court. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Irena Hribar Povše to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Trbovje. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. For the vote is 40, against no one [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Draga Bočko Žižek as a judge at the judge's seat for offences before the judge for offences of Ormož. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. At this session, we will only deal with five more today. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, Speedy Procedure. The agreement and the proposal is that we begin the consideration of this item at 2.30 p.m. and that is why I am adjourning the meeting. With the only point we're still dealing with, that's point five, we continue at 2.30 p.m. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Here we have a government proposal that changes what we have once had on our parent's working body. The mother's working body has not yet addressed this issue and I would like to know how and why the Presidency is putting on the agenda a debate on the amendment of the law, which has not yet been definitively addressed by the mother's working body. Can you explain that to me, ma'am? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act is in the process of rapid procedure. The National Assembly may or may not decide that - the labour body has been dealt with by law. The government's amendments, which are on the table, may be decided by the National Assembly to deal with them on its own, or it may decide to submit them before deciding on them on its own, in a decision by the national working body. This is under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much. So, without considering, as you said, we will actually decide if we are even willing to deal with this, regardless of the fact that the mother labour body has not yet been able to review this matter because of the number of rapid procedures that have been taken, and this is a new proposal from the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u63	Dr. Bajuk, the law is ready for consideration at a meeting of the National Assembly. Dr. Bayuk, once again, if I was unclear. For the 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, all business conditions are met. The mother's working body has considered the proposal and we have a report ahead of us. These are sufficient business conditions. However, since we have decided to deal with the law quickly, we can also decide when we consider the amendments tabled by the Government, so that we do not deal with them and only deal with them after the mother's working body has been defined. When this item is considered at 2.30 p.m., we can also make this decision. Thank you very much. We'll resume at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u64	Dear Members and honourable Members, distinguished guests! We continue with the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 13th session on 28.2.2002: Franc Kangler, Jelko Kacin and Majda Shirca, for the afternoon part of the session. Since we're going to be able to determine the presence first, I'd like to ask your attention. We're detecting a presence. The first determination of attendance was not successful. The manual count has found that there are enough of us in the hall, so I am asking for your attention. The attendance at the hall is determined next time. There are 48 Members and Members present, which means that the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Mr. Barovich, procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Otherwise, at half past twelve o'clock, I raised my hand - I don't know, I was overlooked, obviously - to make exactly the same procedural proposal I'm about to make. We've lost two or three hours, but let's leave. On the one hand, I am very in doubt about the quality of laws adopted after quick, turbo and super-fast procedures. On the other hand, I agree that the National Assembly works as much and as best as possible by quantity and quality. Given that we are moving the points from the meetings, there are extraordinary meetings, I suggest that if, of course, colleagues and colleagues agree that we are here today to immediately meet the mother's labour force, that this point should be decided by the Government's amendments to the proposed law, which is still on the agenda of the 13th regular session, and that immediately after the meeting of the home labour body at this national assembly, this point also ends because, in the discussion, Mr Minister, I was convinced that this law is very important and that it would not be good for us to move this law to any of the following meetings. I hope you understand my procedural proposal. My colleagues and colleagues will decide what they're going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Right away, Mr Barovic, when we get to the 5th item of the agenda, what I'm going to do right now. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INSURANCE LAW, I will make your procedural proposal that, because you want to define a working body by the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this item is hereby terminated and the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee is meeting to be defined by the amendments of the government. I am putting Mr Barovic's procedural proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted, which means that I am terminating this item of the agenda at this stage. I would like to inform all members of the Committee that, at 3 p.m., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in Room 212 will begin at 3 p.m. and at the same time allow me to convey to you, upon such a decision of the National Assembly, also the request of the President of the Infrastructure Committee, in which case, as has happened now, I would like the Infrastructure Committee to do its work now and not after 6 p.m. as agreed. So the members of the Infrastructure Committee at 3 p.m. are also starting a working-body meeting with the agenda proposed at 6 p.m. and, of course, at the end of the 17th point, this is a proposal for a law on measures to remedy the consequences, prevent the spread and establishment of larger-scale terrestrial beaches, so that the report of this working-body will also make this point mature for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly. We are expected to continue at 4 p.m., but you will, of course, be informed in your parliamentary groups or from this place, the meetings or at least this meeting of the home working body will be delayed. We'll try to continue at 4 p.m., and you'll be informed at a different time of events. Room 212, Finance Committee. The Infrastructure Committee, Mr. President, do you have a room number yet? Since Mr Gerencher has already been convened in room 212, they propose that the finance committee meet in a large salon. So the Finance Committee at 3 p.m. in the big salon and the Infrastructure Committee at 212. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u67	Next notice. Since the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee is still under way and will not be concluded before 5 p.m. and in light of the announcement by the Chairman of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee that the report of the Committee before 6 p.m. will not be prepared and will also take into account the fact that the two reports are also the basis for our decision, I propose that we continue to the National Assembly tomorrow at 10 a.m. with consideration of items 5 and 17 in order. The conclusion of both agenda items will also conclude tomorrow the 13th meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u68	Ma'am, may I ask you a question? What's the problem with the financial committee's report?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u69	It won't be ready before 6:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u70	What's going on that he can't get ready?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u71	They're doing a report. They're preparing a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u72	We've all had this report in our hands. Look, I'm a little over 16 years old. I can't just accept that argument.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u73	It's just a notice. Dr. Bajuk, this is a notice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u74	It's just my notice that I don't believe that kind of thing. Lobby's working. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u75	After consulting the President, who is, of course, authorized to submit the relevant documents to the National Assembly, we shall proceed with consideration of paragraphs 5 and 17 tomorrow at 10 a.m. Mr Barovic, this is actually an informal notice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u76	I don't know. I don't know business regulations that much. Even if your proposal, as it has already been, I think it would be worthwhile for the National Assembly to decide on your proposal, unless the business regulations provide otherwise and I do not know what I am apologizing for. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, and also on my behalf as the initiator of the procedural proposal, I protest strictly and clearly for all present and those who may still listen to us. We know this information isn't real. The report could be completed in five minutes. We were all present on the committee. As my colleague Bajuk said, I am protesting this way of working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u77	Mr Barovic, on the basis of your procedural proposal, the National Assembly has transferred this point to the home working body. The Chair shall depend on the report prepared by the same working body of the mother and shall, of course, continue the interrupted point from this point on. However, during the meeting, the chairpersons may suspend the meeting of the National Assembly and determine when to proceed under Article 72, paragraph 1. Surely we are now dependent on the reports of the parent workers and it is not meaningful that we are slowing down work, we know and we know that the Infrastructure Committee is working and will not finish work before 5 p.m. By 6 p.m., we would be able to finish both points, so it is probably "fair" to Members and Members that, given that there is still one working day ahead of us tomorrow, we continue to work tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. It's true. It was on my initiative. I'm sorry, I have to tell you, but my mother's body did its job in exactly one hour. In exactly one hour. We unanimously accepted the amendments, removed the amendments of the parent committee and, as far as the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is concerned, the National Assembly would, regardless of whether tomorrow it would continue work, because I know that, at least this point, we could leave it to the Infrastructure Committee, I will not interfere, because I was not there, simply based on the decisions of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee, the conclusions and amendments could be drawn up and we could continue to work normally by 6 p.m. Please don't blame or turn the blame on my procedural proposal, please. The co-workers may confirm that they were members and were present at the work of the parent committee, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u79	Just a few more, Mr. Barovich. On the basis of your procedural proposal, we have placed this point in the parent's working body. At 6 p.m., I was informed by the president of my mother's working body that a report would be prepared. Thank you very much, and I don't want to discuss this anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-28-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u80	But I was thinking informally now, if we've already finished the story in essence, to suggest that we actually pull out by night and finish nicely both points today and we could do other things tomorrow.
