ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Delak, Silva Črnugelj, Roman Jakič, Milan Kopushar, Rudolf Moge, Matjaž Švagan, Dušan Vukko, Maria Possonec, Branko Janc, Borut Pahor, Jelko Kacin and Alojz Peterle. Since we will be able to determine the presence in the hall, please insert the cards and for so much attention that we will be able to determine the presence. We're detecting a presence. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many more of us in the hall than the screen shows, so I ask you kindly for the attention you need. Next time, we'll find out who's here. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have to suspend the session for fifteen minutes once we have a third presence. We'll resume at 2.23 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to our presence. For the third time, we will be able to determine the presence in the hall, so I would like your attention again, and please press the "quorum" button. We're detecting a presence. 62 Members and Members are present; so the assembly is concluded and may decide. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are invited to attend today's meeting. I welcome the ministers, representatives and representatives very much. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda with reference to 5.2.2002. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely, the State Assembly will first decide on the proposals to withdraw individual matters from the agenda, then on the proposals to extend the agenda, and on the proposed extension, where appropriate, reduce the deadlines set out in Article 52 of this Rules of Procedure, and finally on proposals for a rapid procedure and reduced procedure. We are moving on to proposals for the withdrawal of individual items from the agenda. We haven't received any motions for withdrawal. Mr. Petan, would you like to make a motion to withdraw the point? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u3	Thank you for your word. We are submitting a proposal for the withdrawal of the 16th item of the agenda, this is a proposal to initiate a procedure for the dissolution of the municipal council and the discharge of the mayor of the municipality of Velika Polana. The proposal is based on procedural reasons and also on substantive reasons. One procedural reason is that the Constitutional Court is given an initiative to assess the constitutionality of Article 9b of the Law on Local Self-Government, which is precisely the article on which we discharge the mayor and the municipal council, both elected by the majority system. It could happen - I say - that it could be found, of course, in the Constitutional Court, that there are no reasons on which we are solving the municipal leadership, the mayor and the municipal council, and probably then we would have great problems. We therefore propose that the opening of this procedure should wait so long that the Constitutional Court issues a decision. The following grounds on which we also propose to withdraw this point are substantive. The fact is, this week, in the UK, they will have a municipal council, where they will discuss and adopt the budget, precisely the one that is disputed or on the basis of which the reasons for the discharge should be given, and the Court of Auditors will begin to determine the situation. In fact, it is not logical for us to make a decision without arguments about the discharge of leadership in a congregation without knowing all the arguments that are possible and all the facts. The fact is that until all these authorities decide, they do not find out the situation, in the SDS Group of Members, we find it inappropriate to engage in this intervention. On the other hand, it's just a matter of time, because we have a lot of points to solve. After all, the establishment of new congregations, and we would be dealing with this problem but continue to do so. We therefore propose to withdraw this agenda item from this 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much. We have heard a proposal to withdraw point 16 and also an explanation. Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw the 16th item from the agenda. Let's vote! There are 64 Members and Members present. In favour of 29 votes against 31. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda has not been adopted. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. We have not received any proposals for enlargement. Does anyone want a word about this? [[He doesn't want to.]] The assembly decided on all proposals for the adoption of laws after a rapid and short-term procedure at the 11th or 12th meeting, so that they need not be re-decisiond. We are moving to a vote on the draft agenda. I propose today's agenda session, which you have received with reference. Let us vote on the draft agenda. Let's vote! 65 Members and Members are present. 44 votes to 18. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it that the agenda of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been adopted. Please allow further notice. You were informed that the assembly would work from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. today, tomorrow and after tomorrow, and from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Friday. In accordance with the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, we are moving on to 8. Agenda item - Defence Proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the withdrawal of the Proposal for a Law on Measures to Eliminate Consequences, Prevent Enlargement and Establish Larger Land Plazas, a rapid procedure under the legislative procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia informed the assembly, by letter of 12.2.2002, that it had withdrawn from the legislative procedure the proposal for a law on measures to remedy the consequences, prevent the spread and establishment of larger-scale terrestrial beaches, the EPA 400/III. You received a proposal from the government today. The College agreed that if the National Assembly adopts this motion for withdrawal, we will be able to place a procedural law with the same title as that of the proposed Government in a regular session in February. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and we move on to a decision on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw the proposed law on measures to remedy the consequences, to prevent the spread and establishment of larger-scale terrestrial beaches, to a rapid procedure under the legislative procedure. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 47 to 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw that proposal from the legislative procedure has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. So we're going to move on to 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE CIVIL LAW, THE QUITE PROCEDURE, TO CONTINUE ANOTHER TREATMENT. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The assembly adjourned the consideration of the draft law at its 12th meeting in the second reading, by which we concluded our consideration and adopted the 82nd paragraph of the draft law. This is how we proceed with the second treatment. We are on the fifth page of the amendment review of 31.1.2002. In order to discuss and decide, I propose amendments to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food for the heading of the sub-chapter. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and move on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the title of the sub-chapter has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee for the new 83a. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new article have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee for a new 83.b. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In the opening presentation, I have already stressed and I would like to point once again to the unnecessary scope of this world, such as the law or, as this new article 83.b does, the law. This is a 22-member council called the Minister, which is linked to funding. We believe that a similar consensus could be reached in the livestock law as we did in the feed law and that such a provision could be made, to the number and composition of members of the world who would be more acceptable, not as extensive as in the proposed amendment for the new 83.b. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I just want to explain further what the meaning of this world really is. The purpose of this Council is to involve civil society or those who would otherwise not have the direct option to be defined also in the various sub-legislative acts and other decisions arising out of this Act. In fact, this Council is something that enables civil society, representatives of non-governmental organisations, to participate in the Consultative Body of Ministers, to co-decision or co-decision those sub-laws and various other decisions, which are in one way or another in accordance with the need for discussion and adoption. Thus, the purpose of the world is, in fact, just this and nothing else. In fact, I think it is a very democratic form to allow civil society to be involved in the preparation of various procedures, sub-legislative acts, decisions and the like. I think he's as good as he says he is.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that this world could be composed in such a way as to be somewhere between the positions or criteria referred to by Mr Sušnik and Mr Minister. However, given that we have somehow not all tried together to propose a different solution - namely, this in the amendment and in the basic text of the law, they are both quite extensive and, in my opinion, could be formulated differently, so I suggest that we accept this amendment. The proposal for a law is second-reading, and until the third reading, we decide whether we have a smarter or a better solution. Then by the third reading, which will be today or tomorrow, let us propose a new composition, which, if possible, would be a compromise solution between the two extremes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against 11. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new article have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 100 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 3. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. It's 37 votes to 9. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 101 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. There's 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new chapter entitled Commission for Equestrian Competitions, whose candidate is a group of Members with the first-signed France Cebul. You don't have this amendment under review, but you're getting it on the table right now. I am opening a debate on the amendment proposal for a new chapter. Mr. Onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On the basis of the amendment tabled by signed fellow Members from all parliamentary groups, there is a single monitoring and regulation of the field of horse competition. The rest of the articles in this law also define this. Let me say that this amendment was coordinated this morning with the Office of Gambling and the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Krek. There is no doubt, therefore, that the amendment would possibly be of a political nature, but the necessity of this law, which, as the commission proposed by the Minister, as the composition of the commission itself, would be monitored and co-decisiond by means that would eventually come from betting on horses, meaning that this would also govern within the Ministry itself the competitive and betting part of this law. Through the law on gambling, which is also in preparation at the gambling office, in short, at the Ministry of Finance, there is also another part of the commission that will be "by belt" equal to that commission, which will then be supporting the competition and betting at horse events. I would therefore, of course, ask all colleagues, Members and Members to support this amendment or Article 104 of the Law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I also suggest you support this amendment. In this way, I estimate that this area of competition, galloping and cash registers will be substantially more comprehensively regulated or will give the possibility of finalisation, which has not been done so far. In fact, it is a comprehensive regulation in accordance with Article 49, which regulates the collection of data in the field of horse competitions. I therefore propose that this amendment be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment for a new chapter. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the amendment and thus the new chapter have been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 106 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment proposed by Alojz Sok, with a footnote, if this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Article 107 under order number 1 and 2 are irrelevant. Under order number 2, the amendment of the Committee, with a footnote, if not accepted, is irrelevant to Article 111. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u15	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Allow me to briefly explain the purpose of this amendment to Article 106. However, two amendments to Article 107 are also linked to this amendment. The purpose of this amendment is to introduce a little more clarity on the jurisdiction in the inspection area under the livestock law. The livestock law in Articles 56 and 60 also addresses the area of artificial insemination. Since the inspection of artificial insemination is already under the veterinary law under the responsibility of veterinary inspection, it seems to me that it would also make sense for this law. If we do not write down, then it may be possible that the competences in this area will be duplicated, that in addition to the veterinary inspection, this area will also be covered by the agricultural inspection. This amendment states that those powers referred to in Articles 56 to 60 relating to the health of domestic animals shall be carried out by veterinary inspection, while the other controls provided for in those Articles shall fall within the area of agricultural inspection. Thus, this amendment merely clarifies the current situation in our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u17	Thank you for your word. I would like to ask the representatives of the Government for an opinion on this amendment. In fact, as I am aware, the area of zootechnics and zootechnical supervision is carried out by agricultural inspection at the negotiating points of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, by adopting such an amendment as proposed by colleague Sok, our legislation could be inconsistent with European Union legislation. It is said that even renegotiation in this area is likely to be necessary. I would therefore in fact ask the representatives of the government, Mr Minister, to give a clear answer to this question. If that's it, then I think this amendment is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The whole veterinary field is regulated by the Veterinary Act, including that part that touches livestock farming, but in the health part of the whole story. And that's arranged there. In this law, however, we regulate what belongs under the zootechnics, that is, under livestock. In this context, the proposal for a solution in this law is such that the area of zootechnics is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and the agricultural inspection for the control of zootechnical content. And that is precisely how it was not only said but also agreed and fully accepted in the 2001 negotiations in Brussels for the zootechnical field, when this area was closed, assuming that this law, as proposed by the solution, would be comparable. So in this law we regulate the zootechnical work, while in the veterinary work we regulate health work. This means that I propose that you do not support the first amendment to Article 106 because it would be contrary to what is reasonably agreed, and the second, that is, the one proposed by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I must say, I cannot agree with this explanation. If you look at Article 56 of this Law, which speaks of the breeding of domestic animals and then prescribes the conditions under which breeders can inseminated their own domestic animals. Article 106 and Article 107, of course, only agricultural inspection shall be responsible for the control of this work. However, according to the Veterinary Act, insemination is controlled and the procedures for the reproduction of domestic animals are also carried out by veterinary inspection. In this case, of course, there will be a duplication of procedures in this work, or that this area will be covered by an agricultural inspection, which, of course, is not qualified for this control in our country. The second amendment to Article 107 says - these three amendments should be read in context, together, related: "Veterinary inspection shall have, in addition to the powers it has under other regulations, the power and competence to monitor the exercise of the reproduction of domestic animals and the fulfilment of the conditions of insemination operators," is Articles 56 to 60, "in that part relating to the health status of domestic animals." It is said that nothing more than that part that relates to the health status of domestic animals, which is, of course, possible infectious diseases and procedures in artificial insemination, because we know that by these procedures infectious diseases can be transmitted from one animal to another animal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u23	Here we deal very often with one problem, this has been by transcribing the veterinary law into some other laws. We have been dealing with this problem at the feed where we have literally copied certain articles and put in place some re-control over feed, and the same is now happening here. We're dealing with two areas in livestock. One is the zootechnical area where we deal with the selection of breeds, mating and so on, which is an exclusively zootechnical measure, with regard to control itself; with regard to the health status of donors, this is, these male bovine animals, ova and so on, also the process of insemination - in some articles we have resolved who can do this - but it is a vet and it is solved in the veterinary law. But if these new provisions or amendments were to be adopted, this time they would be confused and suddenly not know what they are controlling. If we interpret concepts, one and the other accurately, then we barely understand what this is about, and there is confusion in surface interpretation, and these amendments are not acceptable to me. However, the purpose proposed by colleague Sok is achieved under the Veterinary Act and supervision is fully established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Once again, we believe that everything that the Member of Parliament has proposed has already been regulated in the field of the veterinary law. However, if we take a classification of activities which are in line with the European Union legal order, then certain activities and activities such as artificial insemination fall under Chapter 01.420, namely livestock services against payment under a specific contract, other than veterinary services which do not belong here, which fall under another separate chapter. So this is where we fix the first one. Again, I would be amazed to see that in serious negotiations in Brussels, where we have temporarily closed this area, we have adopted something that we have proposed, this is what is in this law, so that this area is controlled by an agricultural inspection, an area of zootechnics, if this was not in line with European practice and the legal order. Once again, I suggest that this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u27	Since the Minister is operating on what they will say in Brussels and so on, I must tell him that I myself have received answers on these matters when he was a Committee on Agriculture. They don't care, they just want to know who's doing this to us, who's controlling. And it's going to be the other way around, because we're not going to write it down, there's going to be a duality in this area. The same procedures will be supervised by veterinary inspection under its veterinary law and will be monitored by agricultural inspection under the livestock law. Comrade Juban, that's exactly what's gonna happen. You will find out, as you now find out for the veterinary law, only a few months from now. That's when you'll find that we've introduced a duality of procedures. However, I would like to make this amendment to ensure that there is no duality of procedures in practice. But for the record, the farm inspection controls the zootechnics and veterinary inspection of the health care of domestic animals. That's how the division is done. And you're not gonna convince me that it's in Brussels, I don't know, arranged, who has to do what and how to do it. It is important for Brussels to know who is doing this, that the competence of an institution is conferred. How and in what context, this has also been said to us committee members at the meeting that this is not important for Brussels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u28	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I won't comment later. The fact is that this is what we proposed in Brussels, and it was totally acceptable for them. I don't see any conflict here. I really don't know. I think we're giving three times the vet's powers, and the next week we're giving her too little jurisdiction. I find that a little hard to understand. That's what it's been like all along. It's been like this all these years. And we have proposed to keep it that way and that way is fully acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u31	Since 1978 this has been going on and there have been no special problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u33	I have a replica of Mr. Secretary. This is not an extension of jurisdiction. In no case is this an extension of jurisdiction. This is only about a clear delimitation of jurisdiction. Veterinary powers, I repeat, already have a veterinary inspection. According to this livestock law, these powers are also acquired by agricultural inspection. If you read articles from 56 to 60 so that I do not read them, what is included in this box is the insemination or reproduction of domestic animals. With this proposal, I merely suggest that it be clearly recorded which matters are the responsibility of someone, once again, in practice there will be a duality of inspection procedures in the field.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u35	Thank you, Madam Vice President. We also discussed this amendment a great deal on the committee, and the group that coordinated the open issues raised in the bill itself has also made a number of words about it. We were told that both the zootechnical area and the veterinary field here are separate so that this law does not interfere with veterinary medicine and does not interfere with zootechnics. So we were told by the legal service. My friend Sok understands this matter differently. I would ask if the Legal Service could help out of this mess so that we don't spend too much time on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The question was addressed to representatives or government representatives. Would anyone like to explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Perhaps we would say once again that it is precisely as the minister has already said and has been said many times. The Veterinary Act applies to veterinary medicine and specifies the powers of veterinary inspectors, while the livestock law refers to livestock farming, to zootechnical measures and in this regard also confers jurisdiction on the agricultural inspector. Thus, there is no need for duplication in order to give the same powers to the veterinary inspector once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision, first of all to an amendment under order number 1 to 106. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 15, against 34. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. It's 38 votes against 3. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. 40 votes against 7. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. As we have not accepted Mr Sok's amendment to Article 106, the amendment to Article 107 has also become irrelevant. That is why we are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 111 and on the three amendments of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under number three. We're voting. The first vote on amendment number 3 was unsuccessful. Could I have your attention, please? There's enough of us in the hall. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under Article 3 to 111. We're voting. Since the second vote was not successful either, we are actually enough in the Chamber to be able to vote successfully, but the Rules of Procedure say that after the second failed vote, we will meet after ten minutes, which is at 3:13 p.m., the third time we will vote on the third amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, especially those who are still in the lobby of the hall, please join us. Thirdly, we will vote on the amendment under order number 3 to 111, of which the committee is the proposer. This is the third time we've voted on the amendment. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 116 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee for a new 121.a. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new article have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 125 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the title. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that in the second reading the amendments to Articles 2, 3, 10, 11, 55, 57, 58, 61, 64, 68, 72, 74, 79, 80 were adopted for the title of the sub-sections for the new 83a, for the new 83b, 100, 101, for the new 9th Chapter, 106, 111, 116, for the new 121a Articles and 125a. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u40	I have a procedural proposal. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose a 15-minute recess. An amendment is tabled in Article 10 where the article is intended to be deleted and it might be appropriate to try to determine the consequences of deleting the article if it were adopted. We have the basic text. The article has been amended, but there is now a proposal to delete the article, which I have taken personally. But it seems to me that these are two extremes now, and perhaps it would not be good for us to quickly accept a solution that is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. All I am asking is whether anyone would like to discuss the bill in its entirety. If not, then we will move on to a decision on the amendments and also on the other amendments that qualified applicants would like to submit in this break. I'm adjourning session in 15 minutes. We continue at 3.35 p.m. when we move on to the debate and decision on the amendments tabled in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u42	Your Honor! We continue our third consideration of the bill. May I have your attention, please? Several amendments were tabled in the third reading. We'll do it in a row. First, I am putting an amendment to Article 10. We need to figure out the conjunctivities, so I'd like to ask for your attention. I'm picking up the presence! There are 48 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We are therefore moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 10, whose proposer is a group of Members with the first signed Lydia Majnik. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. I propose to the signatories of this amendment that these amendments be withdrawn or that we simply do not vote on it. The deletion of Article 10 in this livestock law would, of course, mean that the countryside would not be intended for farming, but to do exactly what we want to do. Look, agriculture is in Slovenia, I'd say in one difficult position. The laws also limit the need for rural agriculture to adapt, I do not know, to some other residence rules, which would be extremely controversial from the agricultural point of view. Anyone who moved to the countryside had to count that the countryside was intended for farming. And here to delete the 10th article, which speaks of what is undisturbed breeding, to talk about what is necessary, I don't know, beekeeping with this particular land, I don't know what documentation, and so on, that's kind of a nice thing to say, it seems to me to be unserious. We will not support this amendment in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mrs. Chadonič Špelič, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u45	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello! Of course, the Government does not support the amendment which speaks of deleting Article 10. For a very short time, I'll try to explain why. The subtitle of the article is "right to breed". That is to say, the text of this article is, somehow, a fundamental message of this law as well. You must understand us, the lawmakers who wanted to regulate the duties of this law on the one hand and on the other hand also the rights of animal breeders to regulate, of course, according to all the regulations that are in force now, under all the laws that will be in force under this law, under this law and under all the other laws. Let me give them a little bit: this is the Veterinary Act, the Animal Torture Act, and, I stress, all the laws in the field of the environment. I think that by deleting this article, it would be a message to the breeders that farming in the village is not what we support, that farming in the village is not what is welcome. In fact, this article does not limit anyone. If you've been careful, in the second reading, we've changed the article a little bit. We have deleted that right, which says that it is considered to be a neighborhood disorder or a property disturbance. Thus, there have been words that have already bothered Members on the Committee and that is why we have softened them and copied them. And this particularly stressed amendment was adopted because it was an amendment to the committee - not to imply the unacceptable operation of the real estate owner under the rules governing real estate rights. This is said to have given the animal owner the opportunity to order animals smoothly, but we did not in any way oblige him to comply with all the rules that I have previously listed; I explicitly stress that. And if we were to be so careful, I would like to warn you that if we read it in its three indents, we end up doing this in accordance with the rules. Thus, it was meant in general, with all the rules; of course, we did not list the rules, because we could immediately come into the trap to forget one of the rules. So the government's request is addressed to the National Assembly not to support this amendment and to remain in force under Article 10, as we have also corrected it after a thorough debate on the Committee on Agriculture and adopted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The MPs who tabled this amendment would ask: What would we do if this article remained in law? In all this, I think the beekeeper would put a beekeeper in the middle of town, not for bees, but for bees. To all those who think that the countryside should be limited in terms of agricultural activity, I would suggest that those who think as agricultural protectors in the state in which it is located, those who smell in the countryside, go to the city and that everything smells there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have not written anywhere in this law that the livestock sector should be only in agricultural areas, but we are talking about the concept of livestock farming in Slovenia. We have livestock in agricultural areas and mixed areas, only in strict urban settlements. With the amendment we have adopted on the committee, we have even deleted our neighbourly relations and we have limited ourselves only to real legal rights on property, it is said, on our own land, that we no longer interfere with our neighbours. This is a problem that has not even been solved by the amendment and is not covered by the basic text of the law, namely, which rules are in charge, whether these are rules protecting the environment, or whether they are rules governing livestock. We will always get into a conflict between two different rules in areas that, say, we want to protect for other reasons. In terms of the Ptuj field, there's drinking water for 110,000 inhabitants and there we have livestock farmers who, of course, use all the fertilisers and all the protective equipment. Since there is no guarantee that the environmental rules will be governed by animal welfare rules, I think it is best that we delete this article and thus help to really limit livestock farming to areas where it can be smooth, but to all where someone would like to grow animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, then Mr Rokavec, then Mrs State Secretary, made their first call. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u51	Well, thank you very much. I've responded and I'm replicating Mrs. Majnikov. This Article does not, of course, speak of nature protection, in terms of the protection of drinking water, what it has highlighted, the Ptuj field, which is a particular problem, and is, of course, protected through other legislation, it is said through other agricultural regulations, I do not know about the use of manure, etc., also about how buildings must be built to protect groundwater. So this amendment talks about neighbourly relations, it says, about breeding animals in the countryside. What is stated in Article 10 is right to remain in the law, to know which ones have been done in the field of agriculture and livestock, which do not belong to neighbourly relations, because this is often in the countryside too, I would say, an apple of the dispute. It smells like someone else. It doesn't smell like anything else. The rural area must be dedicated to farming. Then where will we grow, if not in the countryside, or in Ljubljana on the asphalt or where? With regard to beekeeping, which is exposed in this second paragraph, special rules have been issued since the time of Mary Teresa, namely that beekeeping is not actually part of the sphere of classical livestock. Even beekeepers in the time of Austro-Hungarian times, which of course is no longer so today, were exempt from any tax. And that's because the bees in the bio chain, I'd say, in ecology, they mean a lot more than just honey growing. That's what it says, honey growing is something that's secondary to beekeeping. The primary thing about beekeeping is pollination, pollination of fruit trees and other plant cultures. I can tell you the information for America. This year's report estimates that the contribution from selling honey in the US economy is $150 million, while an effective crop is estimated at $6 billion. It is therefore pointless to discuss this in such a way that this article is deleted. I understand that some who have come from cities have been able to propose this, but I do not understand that this would be supported by those Members who come from the countryside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. I think that the 10th Article, as amended in the second reading, is an appropriate text for regulating the area of uninterrupted breeding, both for the breeder of animals and for all other participants living in a certain area, people living in a certain area. In fact, if we delete Article 10, then I think we're in a very dangerous situation. In fact, Article 10 in the first paragraph states: "Individual tasks, fertilisation, land processing, production, crop storage, farming, livestock hunting, beekeeping and so on "does not constitute the illegal operation of the property owner according to the rules governing real estate rights". If this paragraph and also Article 10 are deleted, for example, it may be questionable in a village where there is only a public road, if the livestock breeder is able to feed through public roads. This may constitute an unacceptable intervention by an animal breeder on the public surface. A public road that is usually used only by living residents or farmers there. Interpretation may also be so far off if Article 10 is not available. Therefore, I think that the amendment adopted in the second reading actually provides for an appropriate balance. In fact, I must remind you that probably all municipalities have adopted public order and peace decrees that clearly lay down the conditions of living in these areas. In fact, the third paragraph of Article 10 states: "No one shall obstruct the holder or the breeder by unlawful conduct or abandonment in the exercise of uninterrupted breeding if the breeder carries it out in accordance with the rules." It's also said by the regulations of local communities. That's why I think this amendment is really unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Chadian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much again for your word. First of all, I would like to say that we understand the concerns of the proposers of this amendment, which is aimed at those people in the village who are not the breeders of animals, so they are not farmers. But I fear that our ministry is not the right address, because we are the ones who have to provide animal breeding conditions while we have the Ministry of the Environment, which, of course, is designed to prescribe the conditions under which everyone, including the breeder of animals, can interfere with this environment. This was the basic message of our law. I would like to say to Mrs Majnikov that, in fact, in the second paragraph of Article 10, we are talking exclusively about agricultural land. We are talking about the farming of animals on agricultural land, because we understand, of course, that elsewhere this breed is so smooth, of course, it cannot be, and in the explanation of the amendment you also mention, say, building land. That's not how we understand it. And second, that this is indeed a roofing law and that we also had in front of the eyes all the others who live by the breeding of animals show the contents of Articles 4 and 5 if we look at it. In fact, we are even talking about ensuring the improvement of the quality of human life, we are talking about the conditions under which animals are allowed to be sorted, that there is sustainable development, and that there is no interference with all forms of life in the village. I would even like to point out that in Article 4(3), we are allowing the farm to be relocated under certain conditions, if it is disturbing and if it is also a social benefit. I think that if we look at this law in a complex and comprehensive manner, that it is directed not to disturb anyone, but to give those essential, as we have said, conditions under which the animal breeder is obliged to regulate and, of course, also the rights and responsibilities of this breeder. I would therefore ask once again not to support the amendment because it really deletes one fundamental article in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I have four entries for the word, five, because Mrs Bitenc has also taken the floor. Allow the honourable to give priority to it, and then in order, Mr Kangler, Mr Trophynik, Mr Petan, Mr Jerovšek and Mr Brenčič. Here you go, Mrs. Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. From the point of view of the Secretariat, of course, we had to draw attention to the Law on Fundamental Property Relations, which regulates the content of property rights. One of the main contents is its undisturbed enjoyment. We simply point out that, despite the fact that it is a later law and that it is in some sense a special law, there can actually be a collision of two laws and that property rights can arise because constitutional law is a question of disproportionate interference with constitutional law. In fact, this law merely refers to certain rules for the exercise of this activity, but only specifies them not and does not invalidate what rules they are. We fear that, irrespective of such a provision, even if the amendment is not adopted, some excessive emissions, some exaggerated and unnatural and unusual interference with the property rights of the neighbour, the owner of the property, will still be subject to regulations under the law on the fundamentals of property law, regardless of what we set out here. From this point of view, we simply point out that these two legislations are not fully harmonised and that we cannot guarantee, nor can we guarantee, that we can guarantee too much interference with the constitutional right to property, nor can we guarantee that this provision is actually enforceable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u59	Actually, I have a replica of Mrs. Majnik's, if I may, you probably didn't write it down. In a way, Your Honor Majnik, I do not support this amendment of yours, and I would suggest that you and all the other signatories withdraw it. However, I was surprised by your presentation or explanation as to why this article should be deleted. But I just want to point out something about your explanation for what you said. You want to narrow livestock farming with this amendment or that there would be no such thing in urban and suburban settlements. I would be very happy if you and all the other signatories could also make an effort to talk about the wild and brown bear in the National Assembly, in order to try and come up with an amendment and also a brown bear, which is dangerous to the environment and people, with such a procedural amendment, to limit the movement of urban settlements; then I would be very happy if you, as a member group, supported it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. I am also a signatory to the amendment, and no matter what my fellow Member has done now, some others are trying to set some goals. I agree that the solution to the amendment to delete the article is not the best. I also agree with the comments that the explanation, to put it mildly, is awkward, but I signed it because it was time pressure. But, you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, those who claim that something smells like something out of town, you have a bad argument. Some of us are in the land our whole lives, and most of the conflicts are not among those who are livestock farmers, and we are among the livestock farmers. And, of course, presupposing and instigating that someone opposes livestock farming, to oppose farming and the like, to warn about quality of life and to protect also the constitutional right to quality of life and that everything is in the function of man - because livestock farming is a function of healthy nutrition and it needs man, and so could be distributed forward - such instigations are cheap. The fact is that this is a school case where two officials have failed to harmonise legislation; the secretariat also points out that, however accepted, there is still a risk of conflict between different laws. I was expecting some responsible solution, some amendment in the third reading by the government, I'll say. In particular, I asked the Ministry of Environment and Space how the coordination took place whether the matter was harmonised. And I have to tell you that I was disappointed to learn that this coordination was practically non-existent - I will not say categorically that it was not there, but practically it was not there. This can also be seen from individual reactions. My concern and the reason I joined in this is my concern for the quality of life. And I cannot agree - what my colleague is explaining - that the countryside is intended exclusively for livestock and agriculture. Slovenia is one long village where they have the right to stay and live quality lives and others who do not deal with agriculture, which does not mean they are against agriculture. I will not discuss this article - unfortunately I will not be able to at all - that we have completely overlooked the solutions for the protection of groundwater. And what the colleague warned about and some of you replicated to her is not true. I say that we directly attack the quality of groundwater or drinking water and that we have nothing in practice. No one should comfort me with such or other regulations, nor is the concentration of animals in a given area mentioned, due to the excessive concentration of animal rearing in a particular area and similar matters. I would expect that this is a difficult matter for the government to come as a proposal, but not for Members to be saved now with awkward or less awkward proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The execution of Mr Trofenik has led to new replicas. I think Mr Petan and Mr Jerovšek and Mr Brenčič wanted to replicate Mrs Majnikov's, so of course they have the advantage. Mr Sok, Madam Secretary of State and Mr Rokavec, including Mr Čebulj, will then replicate the implementation of Mr Trofenik. So, Mr. Petan's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. So this is not my area, but I must admit that it is precisely the cases we face every day in our local community. In fact, there is an explanation that beekeepers should be placed in the middle of the city on the basis of the second paragraph in question. Your Honor, allow me to remind you of something. You probably know there's a lot of action in our primary school for eco-school. It is said that in these schools the youngest are taught about healthy lifestyles, about healthy diets, about healthy production and everything that happens in nature in a more natural way. And even such schools, which are in Slovenia, I think already well over 100 elementary schools, have, at least those who can afford it, even beekeepers at school and in the city and so far no one has complained that such beekeepers are doing any harm to anyone in the eco-school. Not the kids, not the frame, not the neighbors. That's the first one. This is said to be such an argument entirely - well, I will abstain from this expression - completely unnecessary. [[...]] I fear that if such an amendment were to be adopted, these schools, which have really done something to raise younger generations, would eventually have to tear down such bees because they are trying to raise a child in a healthy spirit. That's the first one, maybe just by the way. Which is the second thing that seems more important to me, but it seems to me that we need to know what it was like before. Indeed, we have built on the best agricultural land in the past period. And villages where there have always been only farms, we have defined spatial regulatory conditions and building plans as housing. Of course, there's nothing wrong with people knowing that, but they're neighbors from some farms that have been there since we've known each other since the "remembrance," as we say. Suddenly, however, the arrivals who had bought this plot with no ill sense of purpose became neighbors to these large farmers and large farms, and, of course, now all of a sudden they were disturbed by this smell. But, please, now, those who came later can't stop those who've been through this. That is to say, here we have to ask the question of who was there before. I agree that we must all have certain quality of life, standards. I agree with that. After all, however, it must be borne in mind that these people who have already been through there cannot now go somewhere else because of their arrivals. Yeah, where do they go? That's what you say. It just doesn't work. I understand the intentions of the proposers, but perhaps such simple matters are not, however, because by deleting a text they would cause even greater problems, even more damage. And good, however, we must look to the interests of all. I know that these people who have moved now have a smell like that or something, if we can call it a smell of trouble, but we can't completely ignore the rights of those who have already been there and have done it through. That's why I can't accept such an amendment. And because that's not the only case, because we're meeting in the field more than once, so I picked up. I'm not going to be such an amendment, I just can't support it, even though I do sometimes, because I'm somewhere more on the edge, when the wind brings something like that. But, I'm sorry, that's right. Those who are probably engaged in production would probably prefer other smells, but unfortunately that is not the case. We need to find some kind of consensus somewhere. And I don't see a solution to that in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I am also surprised by this amendment, especially because I live in a village and I must say that those who do not deal with agriculture sometimes also disturb some things, but I firmly believe that we must be aware that in a village where agriculture was the primary activity, this must also remain. And that all those of us who live here have to deal with it. However, as provided for in paragraph 3 of this Article, all must be done in accordance with the rules. This is said to be done in accordance with the rules and so on. And that is why I will now ask the proposers or the proposer the following questions. This article doesn't seem innocent to me. This article seems to me to be the saying of what we silently perceive. That our side, our government, was extremely poor in negotiating with the European Union that quotas were [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u66	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u67	Wait. I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u68	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u69	I'm sorry. I'll explain. You can't take my word. I haven't said a word yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u70	Mr Jerovšek, I would like to remind you that your debate is going in a direction that is not a matter of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u71	No, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u72	It will give rise to objections to your performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u73	I don't mind. I don't mind if she raises objections.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u74	I will not allow you to discuss the European Union under this amendment. Mr Jerovšek, I do not allow, because it is not in accordance with the agenda or the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u75	You break the rules and you won't take my word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u76	I remind you that replicas [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u77	You're not taking this away from me because I see what's hidden in this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u78	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u79	I have the right to discuss what is hidden in this cellophane. And please don't interrupt me anymore. Because I'm not moving away from the contents of the amendment. And in fact, I'm asking my colleagues to come up with a clear word. If there has been a promise that Slovenian livestock farming is only a matter of a transitional period, then say clearly. This article also goes in the direction of euthanasia, euthanasia of Slovenian farmers, Slovenian livestock farmers. It's a soft death. And you think you're doing a good job. To allow them euthanasia. Indeed, we cannot in such a way that gentlemen are disturbed by anything that is in some way not popular or similar. In fact, they are the result of such thinking of this demeaning quota that Europe has set for us, but this is the result of what has happened before, and this is the problem. And I am surprised that this is suggested by the proposer coming from the agricultural area, from Ptuj, even from the city - I would not be surprised if someone from the capital, who has a weekend somewhere, suggested it - but in that environment it is necessary to realize that this is also an extremely important activity for Slovenia, agriculture, that migration is extremely important and so on. And this "librarian" view of agriculture, the livestock industry bothers me, I can honestly say that it bothers me; if you do so, this euthanasia and the final death of Slovenian cattlemen is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I'll discuss it myself. I didn't mean to replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u82	Mr. Brenčič, allow me, the debates follow. I've got six more replicas reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u83	When I signed up, I didn't sign up for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u84	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u86	We are now dealing with replicas of Mr Trofenik's performance. Mr Sok, Madam Secretary of State, Mr Rokavec and Mr Onbulj made themselves known to the replicas of the implementation of Mr Trofenik, and then to the implementation of Mr Jerovska Mr Minister and Mrs Majnikov. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to refer to a fellow Member, Mr Trofenik. We both come from an agricultural area, from one of the least developed municipalities in Slovenia, Ormož. It is easy to see if the agricultural sector will become, through different legislation, and begin to be hindered, then there is really no help for us. As of today, this area is inextricably empty. And through such proposals that we actually somehow protect the countryside from farming, of course there is nothing left but that people will go even more, because there is virtually no perspective there, other than farming. Now, specifically, on his statements. It is not true that there are no rules and standards on the breeding of domestic animals in the Slovenian space. Well, it just doesn't hold. These regulations have already been issued to a certain extent, talking about how much GVZ can be sorted per hectare of agricultural area and so on. I said before that we have rules on how to build buildings, municipalities have their own decisions, when and how to fertilize, even the general law exists at state level. However, if not yet, the Minister will issue these rules after this law, which is, once again, I can say, as far as it is substantively empty, because this law requires the issuance of about 50 sub-legislative acts and other regulations that will fully regulate this area. That Slovenia is a long village, I don't agree with that either. Slovenia is not a long village, Slovenia is developed Ljubljana and the promise area and the backward North East, especially with the undeveloped Prekmurje, is the most critical issue there. And this view that Slovenia is long you, of course, is wrong. So, this is kind of trying to tell us and get us in the context of, if, because you're also there enough to develop, you're on some republican average, but of course it doesn't, because things are much more critical than they look. And the last. We both know that there are many times in practice in rural disputes. This is because certain weekenders have moved to the countryside and different permanent immigrants who suddenly become obsolete and nervous about this agricultural activity. Suddenly they smell, but where nothing smells, they say to us, there's nothing to smell. They don't just get nervous about smelling. They also get annoyed by the way that tractor farmers do things to push, to drive, and so on. We must decide whether we will protect the farmer, protect our villages and ensure the settlement of this Slovenia, or whether we will adopt such laws and here we will explain that beekeeping is no longer necessary, as sometimes it was necessary to have permission to have, I do not know what is reviewed, what is regulated and so on. It's a step back, of course. And it helps us to get an empty Prekmurje, to get an uninhabited Dolenjska, and to get an actually developed metropolis and an undeveloped periphery. That's what I'd say in the end. I once listened to Dr. Butcher, and I agree with that. In one of his rivers, he said that it was not really worth discussing with stupid proposals. I really think that this proposal is to restrict rural farming, to make such a proposal stupid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please. Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec has the replica, then Mr. Onion. I see, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. In fact, I will first say the case that I experienced when I visited with the delegation of the Slovenian Relations Commission in last December's world in Switzerland. When we arrived in Bern, there is also a parking lot in front of Parliament, just like we do in the Market of the Republic. And in that parking lot, that was Tuesday, there was a market. They told us the market was open on Tuesdays and Saturdays. On Saturdays, it is an express right to sell exclusively farmers on this market. For the rest of the week, this is as much a parking lot as we have in the Market of the Republic. In fact, this is one example of how a country can, by its regulations, enable or, on the other hand, prevent a particular activity. And by doing so, he gives her a certain place that belongs to her. The deletion of Article 10 in this case would in fact give greater rights to people living in rural areas who do not carry out animal breeding. A minor right to breed animals. Because it removes all the provisions set out here that are essential for the execution of smooth breeding. But here's the thing we have to warn you about. We have a government regulation adopted last year on the level of introduction of animal nitrogen into the soil, which clearly determines to what extent the so-called manure may be used, the use of manure and so on. And secondly, we also have a regulation on how to water and how to water this manure. I said before that we also have local decrees on public order and peace. Thus, if we delete Article 10, we will allow a certain category of residents of this country better conditions for quality of life, and those dealing with animal breeding will be placed in a more precarious position, which is their right to uninterrupted breeding, or even have the right to uninterrupted breeding. And this will also raise the question of who will be able to claim any compensation action. Those who have moved to the countryside or are in urban centres can do so. In short, once again, with all the regulations and regulations of the local communities, I am convinced that, together with the amendments adopted in the second reading we have adopted, the balance between each other is guaranteed. On the contrary, I say that colleague Majnikov misquoted the first paragraph. In fact, we on the Committee and in the second reading deleted the text that "it is not considered to be inter-neighbourly disturbances or disturbances of property" and replaced by the text that rights for uninterrupted breeding do not constitute an unacceptable activity of the owner of real estate under the rules governing real estate rights. And before that, it was also interpreted by the secretariat for legislation that this law would in no way prejudge other laws, property laws. And that is, I think, an essential knowledge. Finally, I am sure that this will be another message from this Parliament or country that we do not want to give a suitable place to breed animals or livestock farmers, so that they can carry out their activities without delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Mr. Onion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I'm not going to be long, given that all those of us who replicate and report to the debate, we're going around hot sauce, and we're actually going to hit the right point. Here I would tell Mr Trofenik, also as mayor, that I am sure that he knows the various regulations of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the various regulations of the Ministry of Agriculture relating to the fertilisation of manure, and that local communities also need to settle matters with certain decisions. However, this is not a problem for people coming from rural areas, but for people coming from towns to rural areas, and especially for those who received agricultural land at the price of their time, they were building plots that still have illegal constructions that are disrupted by the work and rolling of tractors and all the work that is going on in rural agriculture. But what they eventually get or buy on farms is good. In all of this, I would like to give the following message: that as long as there is a smell or an inappropriate smell in the countryside, so long will this countryside continue to live and this countryside will still be regulated and our environment and space will be regulated; and when this stops, I think that the real question then will be what is the national assembly or what we, who are now called for it, have done to our agriculture by no longer smelling, which also means that we have actually finished concrete our agriculture, which will be difficult to establish in order or in normal operation that our country needs. From the European Union and agriculture of other countries, the question is whether the correct decision of a strategy is also in the field of agriculture. And you'll have to be aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Minister of Procedure. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! If we take away the opposition's views - the position, if we have listened well to the debate on the tabled amendment of Article 10 and the colleagues who discussed it, I think we can find that we actually have tangible arguments for and against this moment. It means that if the amendment to Article 10, which has been tabled in the third reading, is accepted, it is true that we are denying rights to farmers, to all those living in border areas and who are disturbing. If we leave the dictates of Article 10 with a correction as it was, the concerns are justified. We compare, say, and take the Zinc, which is 200 years old, and then Celje built itself up so we should let the Zinc do the pollution. I am sure - so I am making the next procedural proposal - that we must find a solution. But she needs to be found by the government as a lawmaker. We have seen that Article 10, in such a dictatorship as second reading, is not good enough that the amendment has been tabled to Article 10, third reading, nor is it good. That is why I propose procedurally - you will decide - that we stop this point today and continue tomorrow if that time is possible the government will find the right dictatorship. But I think if I can advise or help you that something like this is also governed by a real law, whose first reading is already over. If I'm wrong, I apologize. I made a procedural proposal. The decision is made by colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic's procedural proposal that we stop the third reading at the point when we are discussing the amendment to the 10th Article to prepare a better amendment to the 10th Article [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] On ending this point at this point, where we are now, in the debate on Article 10, I put it to the vote. The procedural proposal is to stop at this point and continue to address this item at 2 p.m. tomorrow. We will vote on this procedural proposal. We're voting. The first vote on the procedural proposal failed. Ladies and gentlemen, there are enough of us in the Chamber, so I would like to ask so much attention to make a valid vote on the procedural proposal to stop the consideration of item 1 of the agenda at this point. We'll vote next time. As the second vote has not been successful, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes. At 4:38 a.m., we will vote on the procedural proposal for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u95	Your Honor! This is the third time we will vote on the procedural proposal of Mr Barovic, a fellow Member of Parliament. That is, at the time of the amendment to Article 10, we should stop the discussion and continue tomorrow at 2 p.m. This procedural proposal will be voted on for the third time. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 32. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted. That is why we continue to deal with it. By the way, we're in replicas in the next order. We have three more replicas. First Mr. Minister, Mr. Booth, then Mrs. Majnik, Mr. Trofenik. However, Mr Brenčič, Mr Weber and Mr Juban have been announced for the debate. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The purpose of this Article is therefore very clear. Enable the right to breed. And that is what must be in such a law, given that it is one of the basic messages of the law. It clearly states, however, that in accordance with other laws that may restrict justice, some of which are listed and reasoned or some of the matters are explained in Articles 20 and 21. So it is completely unnecessary here to talk about something that is already known in this country, such as manure and the like, because it is clear that Slovenia has concluded negotiations with the European Union, we know what nitrate directives are and we know that in water protection areas, in fact, this method of use will no longer be possible after a certain period of time, but elsewhere these allowed quantities will be substantially reduced. Therefore, this Article must apply mutatis mutandis, in line with the fact that it nevertheless states the basic message that people have the right to breed. Again, I stress, in accordance with laws that are restrictive in the second part, such as those prescribed by the Ministry of Environment and Space and so on. Secondly, I would like to point out that this law is absolutely harmonised, fully harmonised and has been coordinated for several days with various government departments, especially the Ministry of Environment and Space, and we have the written agreement of the Ministry that this law is a good basis for consideration in the National Assembly. On the other hand, this law is also practical, with the exception of one article, which we have also highlighted in the past, in line with civil society, with users. Therefore, I believe that this law is certainly one more coherent in the overall structure of the legislation that we have adopted. And for that reason, I think it's really possible to understand a lot of things as misunderstanding. This was basically a replica, and I apologize for interfering with the immateriality of this law, because that was what was said. I would like to point out that this emphasising and adding the issue of quotas to any matter affecting any matter, whether it has links or has nothing to do with quotas, is essentially about the fact that there are obviously a lot of things that are completely unknown to us here. Let me say this because it was said in public before. No one in this country has yet negotiated quotas. This country submitted its request for quotas to Brussels in December. Brussels made its first announcement under the financial proposal, Brussels's proposal for a negotiating starting point will present this area as a draft proposal at the end of March, and the actual proposal will, as is commonly known, be finalized by the European Union for negotiations in this area in June and also adopted at its summit at the end of the Spanish Presidency. After that, negotiations will take place in June and July and September, October and November. And then for the first time in its history, Slovenia will even negotiate quotas. It is therefore incredibly difficult to understand that people believe that Slovenia has agreed to quotas. Slovenia has not agreed to any quota since there has been no negotiations. And the first to reject such quotas is me, as the minister responsible for this area, and at least I will never agree to such quotas as the minister. We have negotiations ahead of us, with a lot of lobbying and, above all, an internal consensus in Slovenia that we know what we want and where we want to go. And I am sure that then the result will be substantial and different, better than what it is now. I said this because of a greater and better understanding that we would not listen every day and even on the occasion of the livestock law, that we negotiated in Slovenia for shameful quotas. There have been no negotiations. Negotiations will take place once we have a formal starting point for the negotiations of the European Union. We were already clearly obliged to say that what is the draft draft proposal is unacceptable. And I hope that it is now more understandable that we cannot talk about the shameful position of the Republic of Slovenia about something that someone has just published as their proposal for a starting point for further discussions. Of course we don't accept them.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnikov, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u98	If someone wants to get the wrong idea, they'll get the wrong idea. Mr Jerovšek, I will not tell you, nor where I come from, nor what I am, and I would ask you that you do not have very personal comments on me. But if I am allowed, not criticism, but to express to you the admiration that you, as a chemist in this country, know all the areas and that you know everything and even know that you are always right. I'm admiring you to know everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u100	Thank you. Of course, the question is whether it is worth replicating or not, but I still have to explain. If I said that Slovenia is one long village, I wanted to say what the statistics say that most Slovenians live in the countryside, lived, lived, and would probably live a long time. This is the meaning of my statement, which I referred to as 'long you', and of course it is not possible to tell and convince someone about such a matter because it is a fact. Of course, it's very strange that you're replicating my lifestyle in the country of colleague Kangler and colleague Sok, who both live in the city. However, I am always living in the countryside, and therefore I cannot take such comments in any other way than cheap political advertising, I do not know what interest. My friend onion looks like we're both mayors. The fact is, I believe that there are two types of villagers, one who have recently moved to the country, because they think there is another quality of life, they should at least be, and those who have always been there in the country. And to you as the mayor - I'm sorry to touch you - the immigrants were welcome while they paid you five times the tax, we know what they haven't paid for, but of course they're not welcome or the disrupting element - it's a bit of a joke, but it's a little bit of a joke. And please, the comment on my criteria on the controversial dictates of the article, including the adopted amendment, is solely about the quality of life and some kind of equality and not some obstacle to agricultural activity, however, some anxiously trying to plant with some other goals. That's just not true. I could also say that taking on some for livestock and agriculture is also from other interests, not sincere ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. And also the final replica of the performance of Mrs Majnik, Mr Jerovšek. Then it's time for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnikov, I thank you for the compliment that we chemists get to know more than one thing. This is probably true, but by nature we are such a profile that has a relatively wide range of education, knowledge, because Margaret Thatcher was also very successful in politics, and she was also a chemist, of course we have to say this. At the same time, Mrs Majnikova wanted to make it impossible for me, with her replica, to speak out on various matters, and I do not really understand that. If I had previously discussed in some way that her view was narrow on this subject, I did not say that I forbid her to debate, absolutely. She would now like to prohibit in some way the debate, which I am protesting, because we should advocate that different profiles in this house be interested in different things. That would be the right position, not the way you try to deny any debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Drobnič, did you wish to replicate Mrs Majnikov, who in her implementation, however, only personally explained to Mr Jerovšk the statement about her herself? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Yeah, I wanted to replicate her last and previous performance. But I think I have a chance to make that call. Look, this argument of hers, of course, doesn't hold well. We need this article in Slovenia. Do you know why we need him? Because of the deformed view that everything that is somehow in the stables needs to be suppressed. A deformed opinion was also expressed when I introduced the bear law. The press asked me why they wouldn't just move people out of the fishing nomadic area. They bring such an opinion in a calm manner. Such thinking makes this article necessary. In terms of ensuring equality, the equality of treatment of domestic animals, such as those in stables and treatments, such as puppies and cats in the city. You know, that's it. And that is why I strongly support that this article remains in place and should remain in the welfare of livestock. But I'm not going to disable any of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. And now the debaters. Mr. Brenčič first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Now I'll be brief. I know that there are different environments and different impacts of farming on the quality of living or life, including some property rights and different legal expectations of those in which this property is. However, I also understand in my own way the motioners of the amendments. However, I think it is important and necessary for Article 10 to remain at this time. Because this article will allow for as much intensive farming as in those areas where it has been farming for centuries, on areas where there were no holiday homes in the valley, no housing. But it was farming. And thank God he can still grow today and grow a little more intensely. And if it is a little more intensive farming, which is essential if it is to survive economically this farmer, whom we say we still need, then it is evident that all surface, high surface springs are at risk today. And today, in some environments, when these farmers or livestock farmers pollute, a little more rain brings the presence of feces into this spring, and disputes are here. And it's no problem, you know, this well is no longer intact. This one only wants it until his three weekends, until his two apartment houses are clean. From there everything drops into this same spring, all the feces, everything that comes into the household. And now I wonder if this company is really called to say, "Dear Tina, up there on your hill you will no longer shake the manure, because it will be the rain that is foretold in this spring where I have coverage below, in two days it will bring feces, but it will be left to a little wild, a little beauty." Everything's fine and fine. But they have no interest - I know a whole range of environments, because I have also been procuring - that those who have captured this spring would be the ones who would be looking for how to establish and connect to the water network, as today judges according to the time we live. Therefore, I think that, in order to avoid the reduction of conflicts that are already evident in the entire range of environments, at least the first paragraph of Article 10 is necessary, and I think it would be a shame if it did not remain in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, please, then Mr. Juban. You've come to the debate, Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u108	I'm sorry, I didn't understand your last name. Therefore, in the debate on Article 10, I would like to add that it is very clear how municipalities actually need certain land, especially agricultural land, with which they create that tampon or the transition between intensive agriculture and urban settlement. Indeed, the practice is such that intensive agriculture is carried out directly to the edge of settlements, cities, and hence conflicts. If you want to end this conflict, you need to adopt an appropriate regulation. The weakness of this law seems to me to be in the sense that Article 8 speaks of the Minister laying down conditions and how to provide spatial opportunities for breeding. If the law were to give a slightly clearer description of the conditions or to describe some of the criteria that the minister would then possibly process in more detail, there would be fewer disagreements. However, I have just one concrete question: who will - at least I have not been able to resolve this issue in this law - who will be responsible for the adoption of the fertilisation plans and who will then also take responsibility for the limited scope of agricultural production. While Article 9 speaks of the fact that where a regulation protecting a particular area extends to the scope and conditions of farming, the breeder shall be entitled to compensation. Here, however, it is primarily meant to preserve nature. But I don't know how it is with other regulations relating to improving living conditions in some environment; whether the Minister will prescribe these conditions in accordance with Article 8 or whether they will be local communities. In any event, this is linked to certain restrictions or costs that are then suffered by breeders. I would like an answer as to who will be responsible for adopting the fertilising plans, which I think are also one of the most important parts of this conflict, that this conflict, which is now emerging in this debate, should be mitigated and managed or attempted to reach an acceptable solution, both for farmers and for those who are in an environment and are not engaged in agricultural activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. When I proposed a break, I made a clear statement that I was among those who proposed deleting Article 10. And the arguments and warnings that have been from different sides have encouraged me to start thinking about the consequences, or to keep the article, with the solutions that we have adopted in the second reading, or to delete it. These thoughts have encouraged me to remain in the article, but we have not come up with any concrete warning, nor has the debate that has been going on for too long, brought anything new to the proposed text and the amendment adopted in the second reading. My conclusion is that we are talking about a lot of things, just not about Article 10. We talk a lot about a lot of things, but not enough about the 10th Article and the solutions that are here. In particular, what they mean. It is important for me this time that every paragraph of Article 10 refers to a regulation that we have already already discussed here and that it exists. One solution in the second reading was that neighbourly relations and disturbances are not resolved in the way proposed in the first paragraph, but we have referred solutions to a real law code, which in its section "neighbourly law" solves all these problems, which were also discussed. And it is not true that there is no regulation that solves these matters when there are problems in certain areas. Like emissions, border management, border use, maintenance, animal tracking, emergency routes, emergency routes, meteor shower drains, not to mention anything. Everything we have concerns about is in this new document. And that's one of the regulations I was talking about as an example. I think it's better for the 10th article to stay. I'm not voting for the deletion this time. Even in all this time, we have not come up with concrete solutions, amendments to Article 10, and I think it is better that we leave it as such and, of course, that the rules of the relevant areas solve matters and, of course, we will accept one, whether we have already, but one will have to be prescribed by the government. I remember the amount of manure that was adopted at Gantar's time. For example, two weeks ago, Minister Kopač - it doesn't matter that he is a Copač - someone has drafted a regulation that the minister signs, protects the groundwater where he talks about water bodies, what happens if there is an excessive amount of content, what alarm systems are, and what this society should do in these areas and so on. Let's say the veterinary field has a lot of limitations and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Minister has also made a statement, and then I think we will be able to conclude the debate on this amendment. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Only for the answer to Mr. Weber. Article 21 clearly states that the detailed technical and technological conditions for facilities and facilities for fertilisers, caves, manure, lagoons, swimming pools and so on and for the handling of excrement by law are prescribed by the Minister under this law. That's what Article 21 says. Furthermore, as far as these fertiliser plans are concerned and so on, these are so called, this falls within the so-called category, which is a direct translation of the term used by the European acquis, good livestock practice and refers to Article 4. And it says that the owner and breeder of animals must carry out breeding in accordance with regulations and good livestock practice. Good livestock practice, however, is a document that is the basis for each agricultural - environmental programme. And it's already been published, and it's going to be added and complemented to this area. And so this refers to Article 4 of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u114	Just an additional explanation, if possible. Who's going to issue this prescription? That was my question. But it's a local community, but it's a minister, but it's a government. Because it's going to have consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u116	The one who will then be the Minister in charge of agriculture and, of course, is the one who must issue, as the law states, in Article 21, these regulations and good practice. Without good practice there cannot be an agricultural - environmental programme. We already have a farm-environmental programme. This year we're gonna do it next year. This year, for the first time, also on the basis of a five-year contract, which will have to be signed by those who choose to do so. And good practice in this area must be prescribed by the Minister responsible for this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I now think that, at the time of the amendment to Article 10, I can conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 10. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 16 votes against 31. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 31.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am putting two amendments to Article 68 of the two different proposals to discuss and decide, but the amendments are the same content. Mr Sašo Peče, Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, and a group of Members with the first signed Blaž Kavčič. Both amendments are exactly the same content, so we will decide and discuss both at once. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u118	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would only have a question for representatives of the ministry, because both amendments, which are identical, stem from a second reading, where we have also classified breeds of dogs as indigenous. The question only revolves around the name in the amendment, whether we are talking about a Slovenian mountain racer or a Koroška brand. The theory and practice, or two different explanations, give rise to two different theories. I think it would make sense for the National Assembly to unify the term and take into account the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture as well. Therefore, at this point I ask what is the correct name for this kind of dog, according to their position, given that in the Slovenian National Party we believe that one and the other names are correct. However, since we know that in the publications published by the Ministry, the name of the Carob brand is mainly used, we ask them whether this is the position of the Ministry, and that they come to the aid of the National Assembly, which is otherwise united by at least two proposers, and also agrees that it makes sense to complete the second reading of the Act and thus to complement the indigenous Slovenian breed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Well, I think there's been some positive situation here. From the second to the third reading there has been an unification, as far as the content itself is concerned, which I think is positive. It may be a shame that no panellists with Mr Pecett led the debate on this issue before the meeting, because I think they could easily find a common solution. In the first phase, we had some concerns about the Ministry's views, or dogs as such are even part of the livestock law. There are many arguments that dogs are not included in the livestock law, but that last time there were interesting arguments in the debate that it is still prudent to include dogs in the livestock law, although there may also be certain reservations. As it is said, the debate itself has been useful, so I am thinking and therefore, with a group of Members, I have also proposed that this initiative of the Slovenian National Party should be supported, but it is being corrected in that purely kinological sense. Well, this was also the purpose of our amendment, which is still professionally correct, undisputed, because it mentions Slovenian indigenous breeds according to the numbers of standards assigned to them by the international kinological union. This is the relevant criterion. After all, the Koroan brand was the name of a dog that served in the interim for the basis of both Austrian brandelbrak and the Yugoslav mumponian racer. That is why this is an intermediate development name and, as it is, of course, no longer appropriate in today’s name. That is why, of course, we could see that just before this point was discussed, my colleague Peca kindly took this correction and tabled the amendment. This led to two amendments with virtually the same content. Given that the content is merely that which has been formally tabled as an amendment, together with an explanation which, however, in our proposal, is consistent with all the reference to the relevant resources, I would suggest to my colleagues and colleagues that they support the amendments of our group of Members when they vote on an individual amendment, one or the other, while we have come to the same conclusion in substance. By not doing much damage in the material sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I probably won't make any scientific debates here on this subject, because I can't. So far, we've had a Coroner's name in the gene bank. It is said to be a more suitable and broader expression of the Slovenian mountain ranger. So I guess it would be good to support it. I think what's going to be written down is going to be a decision. So, in this case, this presence in the genetic bank will have to be amended accordingly, if it is also the professional position of the Kinological Association of Slovenia and in short those who are more accurate about these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Since we are already witnessing the consensus in the first, second and third reading of this law by fast procedure and since we are finally understanding each other in one article, I propose the following. Here I have a publication of the Ministry published by the Cinological Association of Slovenia and an insert from the Ministry's publication. And he says when he paints the breed that we're talking about, "Slovak Mountain Racer or Korož." And if we accept any amendments or amendments, if such a dictatorship is acceptable and consensus accepted - yes, if not, then we will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. Just an explanation before I give my word to Mr. Kavčič. The two amendments I have before me, given that your Group of Members has tabled the amendment, are exactly the same. In the first proposal of your amendment, there was a Koror sign, and in this amendment the Slovenian mountain rider is the Slovenian mountain rider. By decision of the National Assembly on two amendments, which are exactly the same content, two different proposers. And the custom was that the National Assembly decided briefly on both amendments at once, because they were both exactly the same content. Since no one wants to discuss again, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment of two different applicants with the same content to Article 68. Mr. Kavčič, please. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u126	Can you just explain, please, whether we will vote once on one amendment and then who is the proposer of this amendment, whether we will vote twice on the same amendment by two different proposers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u127	It was customary if amendments were the same content to vote once. The amendment of two different candidates. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u128	I think it is right that we vote on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. They have opened this matter; they have actually reached this debate in this House. And once you have allowed the coalition to bring one of the opposition parties into law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The first amendment was tabled in the old form, not corrected, by the Slovenian National Party. The uncorrected amendment was followed by an amendment from the first-signed group, or a group of Members with the first-signed Blaž Kavčič. The Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group subsequently amended the amendment and wants us to vote on the amended amendment, which has been tabled in time for the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed Blaž Kavčič, which means that if you insist on the order of the investment, the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed Blaž Kavčič is at the vote of the Group of Members. But they're both the same. We are voting on the amendment, as I presented it. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It was 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have therefore ended the vote on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs whether the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. Voice explanation, Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u130	Well, take this as an explanation of vote, but I would like to ask a colleague from the secretariat, because it seems to me - because I also wanted to propose a change, but I think that the first article, the second indent, should not be, because article 1 was not amended earlier - so I think there might be some disagreement there so that there would be no misunderstandings later. But if I'm wrong, I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues. So, Article 1 I think it's second-- I'm not going to argue, but I think it's second indent, or second paragraph, yes. Better to check than to check. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. You therefore point out that the provisions of the law are incompatible with each other. Mr. Barovich, can you be more clear?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u132	Yes, you can. In the rapporteur - colleague Juban, you can lend it to me, please - just once again please don't let anything go wrong later. The second paragraph of Article 1 states: "The provisions of this Act relate to the breeding of equidae, bovine animals, pigs, sheep, goats, rabbits, poultry, fish and bees." Here I think we should add 'and dogs [[hereinafter referred to as ‘domestic animals’]] ".." But this is my humble opinion; if I give the wrong warning, I do apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u133	The Secretariat's assessment is that there is no non-conformity, Mr Barovic, but thank you for the warning. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 48 against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you very much to the Minister and to the co-workers and to the colleagues for their cooperation, as well as to the representatives of the secretariat. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Composition of Agricultural Lands and Lands of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr. Secretary Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much. It is therefore a third reading with which the government, with its amendments in some general contexts, wants or wants to have a greater impact on the content of changes and additions. I would first draw attention to the deletion of Article 4, paragraph 1, by which this law retains a fixed 20-year concession, as has already been stated by the Law on Agricultural Lands and Forests. This is not about whether it would be an excellent solution or a good solution for us as proposers or for me as Minister. Personally, I think that this is a bad solution, but it must be practical and it must be established that there is no other option than to establish here the naked fact that you cannot interfere with the law in the already acquired right. This means that we are proposing that the text of Article 4(1) should therefore be deleted and that a 20-year concession based on law be maintained, since this is the only thing that is constitutionally acceptable. Furthermore, in the second part, it is proposed that the general deletion of the part where it is proposed or where it has been accepted that 50% of the inflows of concessions or leases of concessions are directed towards municipalities. Because in this case, of course, the whole purpose of the Fund's existence and the basic content and purpose of the Fund would be eliminated, why and in what way and in what way it was actually formed. It is very important that we make proposals in the third reading in the form of amendments to ensure, we are talking about Article 4, farmers living in an area with limited opportunities for agricultural activity, the possibility of obtaining forests for a multi-annual lease, so that I am sure, as a country, we are extremely much helping to preserve rural settlements, as we are increasingly coming into a situation that needs to be made very clear that there are some areas where people who live and work land need to pay for it. Because, of course, they will not remain there under any circumstances. There is no economic logic, nothing that would ever dictate this context to them in order to decide to stay there. The practice in all countries of the European Union is similar. We believe that just by ensuring that the people living there are able to rent a forest that is owned by the country or in the management of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, they would actually make a big positive movement and a positive gesture, and actually practically help people there, in the economically uninterested areas, to give them something that already exists, so that they could use it under the prescribed conditions, which would allow them, as has already been said, to survive a little easier in that area. And of course, it is also likely that people will remain there, the strategic objective of this country. It is also very important that an area of land is covered by the Law on Public Funds, which will move to the municipalities, with the aim of preserving agricultural land. For the agricultural land was by this and by this law, by this law, which is now being amended, and by the cooperative laws and on property transformation, transferred to the country and to the fund as the legal manager of these lands, with a view to maintaining them and managing them in a uniform manner. Therefore, of course, any substantial further overstepping into space from the point of view of the transfer of these unwalled buildings to the congregations, of course, is something that questions this first purpose. In short, this is what I would like to highlight in my introduction. So we are talking about some amendments to the third reading, and I will be happy to answer questions or my colleagues who have worked more closely in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Mr. Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Respectable government representatives and a respected council. The Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food addressed the proposal for a law at seven meetings in two mandates. At that time, he also addressed a number of amendments to individual parliamentary groups and Members on various proposals of the law itself and on the amendments of the government that we have been considering. At the same time, we also received various comments from Mercator Kranj, the Forestry Economy Maribor, the General Forestry Association of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association for Agriculture, the Agricultural Combined Ptuj. We have also considered many documents by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia as business analyses in recent years by projecting the operation of the Fund for the future. We have also considered or taken into account in our work a great deal of warnings from our secretariat on legislation and legal matters. In the main part, there was a talk about articles 4 and 5 of the Law, where there were different warnings. The members of the Committee held a thorough and in-depth discussion of all proposed amendments in their deliberations at the meetings of the Committee. However, the biggest debate was with regard to the proposed amendment to Articles 4 and 5 of the bill. Some members considered that in Article 4 of the amendment proposal and the addition of the bill contained uncoordinated solutions, in particular with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. There was a lot of talk about this, and that is why the debate itself was drawn from the meeting. There has also been a lot of talk about solutions to the fact that work in the forest can also be given for smaller areas and that the fund can be given to a farmer who owns a farm in mountain or hilly areas. There has been a speech that this is one of the government's shortcomings because it allows the allocation of 100 hectares without clearly defined criteria. There was a lot of talk about concession contracts that had not yet been concluded at the beginning of the committee hearing. At the time of the finalisation of the draft law at the various meetings of the Committee, we have already received information that concession contracts have begun to be concluded, but under the impression of these various information, the Committee has also considered various amendments and has supported them accordingly. At the end of the debate on the draft law, the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that in the third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia adopt amendments to the Committee and amendments supported by the Committee, and adopt a proposal for a law in full after the discussion has been concluded." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Aloise Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister and other representatives of the government, distinguished fellow Member and fellow Members! So, after four years of working and amending the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, we have a third reading of amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act, which is a typical example of how something changes so that nothing changes in the end. So the law, which was discussed in the second reading by the National Assembly in 1997 and which was read by Dr. Andrej Bajuk during his second reading, brought some changes. One of the most important changes in the Committee on Agriculture is that the second reading changed this directly by law, from 20 years to 10 years. This means that this direct concession, which was granted under the law of the forest economy, would end in 2003, and that farmers, in particular those with limited farming conditions, could also apply as tenants to concessions. In addition, some other amendments were made to the law in the second reading, namely that the municipalities in the area of agricultural land would be part of the rentals from these leases. Up to 50%, by the way. He also brought some of the responsibilities of the Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands, who would also be financially responsible for the actions or decisions of the Fund. It has also brought to the municipalities unpaved building plots, those which were then defined as socially uninhabitable land by the application of the Land Fund Act with spatial plans. Now, in the third phase, these most important decisions are actually made by the current government, or by the proposer, and this 20-year lease is back to 20 years. In Novi Slovenija, we wonder how Slovenian agriculture will actually be faced when it enters the European Union with such determinations. At that time, the Commission issued or published negotiating points for agricultural quotas with the European Union. We are afraid that these are not actually negotiating points, but more offered quotas are to be taken or left behind, and of course this will be a major problem in 2004, when we join the European Union. It will happen that Slovenian farmers will not be prepared for this entry into the EU and, to the greatest extent, we are to blame in Slovenia. Even though, in all these years, when we talked about the need to restructure Slovenian agriculture, we did not devote land from the farm fund to Slovenian farmers and did not increase the size of Slovenian farms. Thus, Slovenian farms remain more than three times smaller than farms in the European Union. One of the major shortcomings is that Slovenian farmers cannot manage the best Slovenian forests. These forests are managed by Slovenian forestry companies, which, at least until now, have not dedicated anything to the country. About 400 million Slovenian tolars came from a concession for the management of Slovenian forests annually, and nearly as much as the country paid back for the maintenance of forest infrastructure facilities, the right roads, and the taxes that the state must pay for such concession activities. The Minister mentioned that the amendments proposed by the Government give farmers the opportunity to obtain up to 100 hectares of forest surfaces on public tenders. However, it has to be said that this will only happen in 2013, because only then will this government amendment be accepted to renew the concession to 20 years, only then will this concession relationship be released and farmers will actually be able to compete in a public tender for the management of these forests. In this respect, the questionable adaptation of Slovenian agriculture in the EU in the field of forestry remains, of course, as well as the introduction of complementary activities in the Slovenian agricultural area. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, within the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have a very ambitious programme for the use of wood biomass, which, of course, will not be possible with such forest management as today. The second thing I would like to point out on behalf of our Group of Members is the European Commission's progress report for 2001. On page 56, it states that as far as forestry is concerned in the Republic of Slovenia, that legislation should be amended, namely the Forest Act and that legislation should be amended, the real law on agricultural land and forests is being adopted. It says here that the amendments to these two laws are lagging behind the hands laid down. If the amendments now proposed by the government are adopted, then in fact, we find that nothing will happen in the area of the agricultural land fund, at least as far as the issue of management of Slovenian forests is concerned. For the Slovenian forests will remain in the management of forest holdings, which, as has already been said, mismanagement of Slovenian forests or management in such a way that the Slovenian state does not benefit from it. The second thing I would like to draw attention to is compliance with other legal resources in the European Community. In fact, the declaration of conformity of the proposal for a law with the rules of the European Community states in the document accompanying the amendment of this Act on page 7 that the Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund does not comply with the first paragraph of Article 6 of the European Economic Community and point F 59 of Article EEC, since companies of the European Union under this law which awarded the concession directly into the 20-year lease relationship do not have access to the forest management concession. So all of this was taken into account in the second reading. Now in the third reading, the government is somehow changing that again. We are interested, of course, and we would like to hear the reply of government representatives and ministers, how our Ministry of Agriculture will respond to these allegations before the European Union. As far as our parliamentary group is concerned, we do not intend to support the amendments, except for those relating to the acquisition of building land for the congregations. If the amendments are adopted despite our opposition, we will not vote in favour of such an amendment to the Agricultural Land Fund Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia will be presented by Mr Bogomir Vnučec. I ask if any other group of Members wishes to present its opinion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Party of Young Slovenia, given the third treatment, we do not want to waste the valuable time of this assembly with general views on the law. However, in view of some of the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups, which are also supported by the Agriculture Committee, we are forced to highlight some of the known facts, namely why this assembly has set up a fund for agricultural land and forests. First of all, the task was related to the change in the social system and the transition of agricultural land and forests from social to public property or private property in cases of denationalisation. The Fund also manages forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. It is also very important that the fund has so far not been directly financed from the state budget, but financed from income generated by the management of agricultural land and forests, creating even about 10% of the profits. In the Young Slovenia Party, we ask ourselves whether we will create a new budget consumer with certain amendments to the law. For we believe that the task of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the National Assembly is primarily to examine the implications of these amendments on the State budget and to act in favour of them. In particular, we have in mind the amendment to Article 2, which says that the funds acquired by the Fund through the management of agricultural land, farms and forests would be shared by 70% of the fund and 30% of the municipality in which agricultural land, farms and forests lie. It is necessary to verify the public financial implications that will arise in the event of the adoption of this amendment, since this does not mean that municipalities will receive more money, since only in the event of a change in the law on the financing of municipalities would this revenue be able to reduce the revenue from the financial compensation, since it is known that only 28 municipalities from 192, 164 are eligible for financial compensation. For the 28 municipalities this amendment actually means additional resources, and only for them, but for the others we do not believe that the Minister of Finance will miss the financial outflow from the already so-favoured state budget, while at the same time reducing revenues would prevent the implementation of the core activities of the Fund and would certainly become a budgetary consumer in one way or another. This also raises questions as to the relevance of the continued existence of the Fund, which consequently means the failure to comply with legal obligations in the denationalisation procedures in the area of replacement land, which is the most expensive form of return for the State to denationalising beneficiaries. The Fund is also not fully capable of some tasks in its field right now, given that it is financed solely by its own resources. However, as a result of the adoption of some amendments to the Fund, there will be even more weak data records on state land, then coverage of the land and, consequently, the impossibility of State property, as illegal interventions are already taking place in a space such as sand diggers, black landfills, a place of timber, less investment in forest infrastructure and the legally prescribed purchase of protection forests are being questioned. For the municipalities, if we want more resources, it would be better for the fund to be abolished, and for the land with which the fund is located to be transferred to the management of the municipalities, and for the forests to the forest office. This also raises the question of why we have two institutions, a fund and a forest institution covering related areas. It would make sense and in the national interest that only one institution would do so. In the event of the adoption of the amendment to Article 2, the municipalities will have to take care of the cadastral land or all that the fund has done for state land itself so far. The fund has approximately 80 employees trained to do so. Either they have to be forgiven for this 30 percent or the ministry will find a way to retire, as it is now in fashion. In addition, the vast majority of the congregations do not have qualified workers for this task and will need to be further employed. There are also cases where a certain municipality has retained 20 percent of its dedicated means of maintaining forest roads for other purposes. We therefore reiterate our call for the proposer to provide us with an assessment of the public funding implications that would have occurred in the event of the adoption of certain amendments, both by funding the Fund and by funding the municipalities, and with a way to control the use of the funds that the municipalities are supposed to have in order to make a better decision in the youth party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Then Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! During the mid-second year of this mandate and at least so much time in the previous mandate, DeSUS Group actively prepared the adoption of amendments and the completion of the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund Act. We have tabled some amendments for individual hearings, both individually and together with the Joint List Group. In the adoption process itself and in the desire to ensure the most rational use of the wealth of land and forests we have also advocated, and we will do so in this third reading. The DeSUS Group will support the amendments prepared by the Government and the Home Committee, and we will support the amendment initiative that part of the funds it receives from the Land and Forests Management Fund belongs to the proposed share of the parent municipality, in which only this would be used deliberately, to regulate the area from which the income has been extracted. The proportion to be received by the congregations is coordinated and supported by the parental committee. We are confident that this will also be the case in the municipalities with everything in the field of land cadastre, land plots, support for rural development, sonar farming, conservation of remote farms and everything else that has not worked so far in the municipalities. Also because there was no constant source of funds. In the interest of preserving farms in mountain or hill areas, we advocate a clear dictatorship in the law so that the fund can lease part of the forest to such a farm and to the extent that the work of the family members is still manageable and able. This is a substantially smaller area of 100 hectares, which should not be overlooked by the Minister in exercising this right. We will certainly support the best solutions offered in order to reach that law as soon as possible and to regulate the area as legally possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u144	Good-bye, everyone. In the UK Group, we have been monitoring the amendment of the law from the very beginning and, of course, we have also tried to play a particularly appropriate role in the management and management of the land and forests of the agricultural land fund, which should go towards integrated sustainable rural development. This means that this fund should support agriculture and forestry, support and promote regional and municipal development and ensure the sustainable protection of the natural basis of life. These are the criteria that the forest and agricultural land manager should certainly implement if it wants to play its part, its competitive role in the development of Slovenia. We have also received support from these views from the European Commission, when it proposed quotas for Slovenia, and here we find that these quotas will in fact be a disaster for the Slovenian countryside, especially for those farms that do not have enough areas to compete adequately in the struggle for survival with other European farms. And if these areas are not targeted by additional resources, this rural area will be targeted or doomed to collapse. We decide whether we need a centralised fund in Slovenia, which does not actually have a review of the rural situation, does not have a development function and, of course, causes major problems, both for farmers and for concessionaries, as well as for municipalities, because it restricts them in its development, because in the management of the fund there are also building sites that are crucial for the development of each place or municipality. These are the dilemmas we are trying to resolve with the changes we are proposing in this law. These changes are a definitive preservation of the agricultural land fund, provided that these funds are earmarked for development. If these funds are not earmarked for development, of course, this fund is doomed to collapse at the time the denationalisation is completed. This was also the purpose of establishing an agricultural land fund.If we want this fund to continue to operate, then it should be included in the development function and, above all, an effective response to the quotas laid down by the European Commission for Slovenia. We see these solutions in the proposed amendments, which have also been tabled or adopted by some on the Third reading Committee on Agriculture. Some did not receive support, but mostly support was shown. Above all, if I start with an amendment talking about getting the fund 70% of the funds it receives through farming, farms and forests, 30% belong to the municipality in which agricultural land, farms and forests lie. Not only is it a development function to provide these funds but it is also a compensation charged to concessionaires by the Fund. So we're talking about compensation. And this compensation, of course, also refers to the appropriate infrastructure and the appropriate conditions that municipalities must ensure that the exploitation of these natural goods or management in forests and agricultural land is even possible. The municipalities that take care of this and provide this infrastructure also have part of the compensation. This is why we are talking about the need for some of the funds to be kept in the area where costs also arise in the harvesting of wood from the forest and in the management or management of agricultural land. In addition, it is very clear that in Slovenia we do not have organized cadastrals. The fund should have done this job a long time ago, and nothing has been regulated in this area. He doesn't have an exact land record. That is why it is still renting building plots, unwalled building plots. There are disputes between the tenants because they don't know exactly what parcels they have in the lease. Then it is not an orderly cadastral culture on a particular plot. It's a problem of tax evasion, cadastral income. And the fund, because it doesn't have it in place, is in direct violation of the law. If a relationship between the municipality and the fund is established to begin to resolve these land relations, it will be necessary to establish a record on the plot accurately and, of course, also to establish an appropriate culture on those lands, which means solving certain problems in the field of tax legislation, and in particular to ensure normal conditions for the tenants to know what they are paying the rent for, for which the quality of the land is. In addition to these difficult tasks in the field of partialisation, these funds also really concern co-financing the entire rural development and the reconstruction of the village. The fact is that there is not enough resources for integrated rural development in the budget, and if we want this programme to come to life, it also needs to be provided with funds to do so. If I go from this amendment to the area of forestry, to the so-called Article 4, in fact, the reason for the amendment of the agricultural land fund law is no longer there, since concessions with foresters are signed. The intention of this law was at the outset to destroy forestry in order to grant concessions in smaller areas and thus cause the collapse of 14 companies currently managed or contracted as shareholders for the management of state forests. I ask you whether it is not Slovenia's national interest that Slovenian companies manage Slovenian state forests in 20 years and whether it is necessary to reduce this period in order to allow someone from the European Union to manage Slovenian state forests. The reduction of the concession period definitely makes it possible. Here again, we draw attention to this problem, which we have been very much talking about in the last period, what is Slovenia's national interest. Here we have the opportunity to establish this Slovenian national interest, and it is also protected by the Constitution, because all the solutions proposed were also contrary to the Constitution. And our efforts in this area have also always been focused in this direction to ensure that the Constitution is consistently respected. This is also stated in the amendments to Article 4. And if the text of Article 4 is deleted, the dictates of the basic law remain, and thus all the dilemmas - whether the 100 hectares that the Minister is supposed to distribute by his criteria are enforceable or not - are in fact not feasible because it is contrary to this law. Unless this first amendment is adopted, of course, we also support the second amendment of the government to delete the first paragraph, which eliminates unconstitutionality. However, the fifth amendment of the combined list is certainly feasible at this stage of the law in force and we are talking about farmers in mountain and hilly areas getting forests to manage, i.e. state forests to manage, if it means that they are combining fragmented areas and thus, of course, increasing economic opportunities for management of these forests, both by state concessionaires and by farmers themselves. However, all of this is carried out in accordance with the rules provided for in this Act. Therefore, we do not deviate from the legal standards already established in Slovenia if this amendment were adopted. We also propose that they be transferred to the municipalities of land defined by plans or spatial implementing acts as unpaved building sites by the date of 1.8.2001. It's a date that came in last year, though. The fact is, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia should never have been transferred to unpaved building land; the fact is that it has been transferred, and the fact is that it wants and sells them at the price of building land and not at the price of agricultural land. Of course, this is also a direct intervention in the functioning of local self-government in the sense that the funds you invest in infrastructure actually cash in the adoption of spatial plans. And here is also the justification from that amount 30% that from the holding or sale of agricultural land or land in the management of the fund, 30% of the funds will also come to the municipality. It is only a matter of covering the costs that the municipality has actually incurred when adopting spatial plans and communally equipped building sites. Therefore, this period of 1.8 is also significantly more justified than 20.3.2000 when the Public Funds Act was enacted. These are the basic principles that we are advocating in this law and, of course, we also expect them to be supported by all these arguments that I have said. I am sure that this law will justify the European Union code or the EU code if these amendments are adopted, because they are actually an effective and correct response to what is happening today when Slovenia is included in the European Union and, above all, if we have an agricultural field in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to present its opinion? Because no, I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Zampernik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. I'll focus, I'll be very brief, on just one part of the solution provided for in this law. In one article, specifically in the 4th, there has been a number of speeches on this subject today: "After the expiry of the leases and other relevant contracts referred to in the first and third indents of the second paragraph of this Article, or if the previous administrators have the right to terminate the contract, the contract may also be concluded with a farmer living in that area." Interesting, Mr. Minister, is the explanation of this article. In it you say that the amendment makes it possible to implement an active policy of maintaining rural settlements, because by broadcasting state forests to farmers in the highlands and in the steep regions of Slovenia their existence will be enabled. It's a very nice and wonderful conclusion that you've written down in your explanation. "Apropos" can be said that if farms in these areas, which you refer to here, are said to be higher and steep areas of Slovenia, such as those in the areas where I come from, unfortunately very much, now the existence is not possible unless they are handed over to state forests. That comes from your explanation. I ask you, Mr. Secretary, how will you explain this to these farmers? How will they live for ten years? If only after you rent them forests will their existence be enabled. I think they have to live for ten years. And what you've written down here is nicely said, tasteless to these people. It is also distasteful that the Group of Members does not have an opinion on this law, yours, which should still somehow preserve the countryside. And just as we have already made a visit to the congregation, of course, I would now invite you to explain what I have just asked you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-12-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Since it is time 18 and because we are in the general debate on the proposal of the law in its entirety and because the Minister also wanted to respond to the individual's statements, and I think there will be more debates in the general debate or the debate on the marriage proposal in its entirety, I will end this point. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, thank you to the representatives of the government, thank you to the representative of the secretariat, and have a lovely evening.
