ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u1	We'll continue our 14th session. Please take your seats. We will begin the continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, we all need to calm down a little. Please place your ballots in the voting devices. Before I determine the presence in the Chamber, I must warn you that our colleagues and respected colleagues have apologized. This is Dr. Bajuk, colleague of Lavrič, colleague of Spindler for the start of the session, colleague of Zląbec, also for the start of the session, not to be with us until 4 p.m. will be colleague Petan, and a colleague of Pozsončeva will be absent all day. Now I'm asking for your attention. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Please! Press the "quorum" button. Peace in the hall! I'm detecting a presence. 52 colleagues and colleagues are present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I invited the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting, and I warmly welcome him among us, a candidate for a constitutional judge, mag. Marija Krisper Kramberger and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to them too. Colleagues and colleagues! Today's continuation of the 14th session of the National Assembly will begin with the discussion of the 32nd item on the agenda, this is the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect two judges of the Constitutional Court. The assembly will then move on to the second item, the European Commission's Regular Report on the progress of our country's integration into the European Union in 2001 and then to the consideration of the 10th item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products and Substances in Contact with Food. Next, the assembly will move on to the 22nd item, this is a proposal for a law on subsidising student diet and in order to continue. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to 32. It's a day's work. Excuse me? Please, Comrade Mag. A visionary, procedurally. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you very much. See, by my fellow Member, Puksic, I am informed that he is currently awaiting a court ruling on a case for which this national assembly has not recognised his parliamentary immunity. My colleague Pukšič wants to be present and present in the event of such an important act as the election of a new Constitutional Judge, so he asked me, on behalf of the Group of Members, to propose that the item of the Progress Report and only the sweat point of the election be addressed before this point and that it be possible for him to be present in the electoral procedure. I therefore propose that, on your proposal, paragraphs 1 and 2 be replaced. This means that we first consider the report and then move on to the election, or 32nd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u3	It is therefore a procedural proposal not to start today with the announced 32nd item of the agenda, but with 2nd, this is by addressing the progress report. This is a classic procedural proposal, which will be decided by the National Assembly by a vote. I'm asking for your attention because I don't intend to repeat the same things twice. I'm asking for peace in the hall. A colleague of mags. Mr Vizjak proposed, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group, a replacement of the treatment of the two points envisaged for the start of this meeting, 32nd and 2nd, by starting with 2nd and continuing with 32. It's a procedural proposal, mags. A visionary. I put this proposal to the vote; it cannot be discussed. We're voting. 63 present, 27 to, 31 to. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. By letter dated 12 March 2002, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan, asked for peace in the Chamber! - proposed to the assembly that a magnificence be elected as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Marija Krisper Kramberger and Prof. Dr. Krešimir Puharič. On 25 March 2002, the candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court, Prof. Dr Krešimir Puharič, resigned from the application for a judge of the Constitutional Court under Article 14, paragraph 4, of the Constitutional Court Act. On the same day, the President of the Republic, Mr Milan Kučan, withdrew the proposal to the national assembly. You have received the withdrawal of the application, accompanied by the resignation of the candidate. Before I started this point, I guess I saw a fellow Squirrel with a raised hand. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. On behalf of the Group of Members, I have a procedural proposal, which I have also announced today at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we propose that the National Assembly decide on a proposal for a candidate or candidate for a constitutional judge at one of the following meetings. I would like to base our proposal very briefly. The first reason is that you have just informed us in the introduction to this point that the President of the Republic has been informed by Prof. Dr. Krešimir Puharič that he has been informed of his resignation from the application for a judge of the Constitutional Court. In this announcement by the President, we find it very important to say that "in the coming days, I will publish the vacant seat of the judge of the Constitutional Court". However, the second reason, which is actually of a substantive nature and is also related to the procedure itself, is the topic which was, in fact, latently present in the decision on the final application for a constitutional judge, which was Dr. Cyril Ribičič. It is, however, a question, as one of the former constitutional judges referred to it, that the political and visual balance of the constitution of the Constitutional Court is necessary. It is an important question, in fact, the question of how an institution as important as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia works. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that the National Assembly would act wisely if it decided on proposals for a Constitutional Judge or a Constitutional Judge together for both cities; so that we wait for the President of the State to propose a second candidate and candidate in accordance with the procedure and then jointly decide. So this is our procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Podobnik, you have made a proposal on behalf of the Group of Members, which is able to interpret it under Article 73(2), which means that we will decide on such a proposal in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. You've already justified the proposal. I'm asking if he wants the word "secretariat." [[No, no, ……]] Then they have the opportunity to explain their proposal to the representatives of the parliamentary groups, if they so wish.I ask whether any of the members of the parliamentary groups would like to clarify their views on the proposal of their colleague Mr Podobnik. [[He does.]] First, Comrade Anderlich, behind you, Comrade Jerovšek. [[No, no, ……]] My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u6	We cannot support the procedural proposal in our Group because we do not see any link in these two procedures. After all, it is a matter of running for a new candidacy for a period of time, a period of time will be available when proposals such as and otherwise will be formulated, and this process, which has so far been under way, has reached a stage when everything is ready for decision and is not packaged. Even more so, it could happen that the President of the country will spend more time and that by the time the mandate of the two Constitutional Judges, the new candidate or candidate has expired. And it would be unfair and unfair to the proposed candidate that she is now a prisoner of another procedure, which has nothing to do with this very candidacy. Two seats were awarded, i.e. for two nominations and, of course, it was only by chance that these two judges would expire simultaneously. However, this is a completely individual function and, of course, we cannot support this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u7	Mr Pohorec wishes to report on the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much. In our Group of Members, we believe that today we would be able to elect a judge who is here as a proposal by the President of the State, because we think that we are doing nothing to impede the election or the search for the next candidate for the next court seat in the Constitutional Court and that this will not change anything on the basis of the proposal. We agree that we would do this appointment today and that the procedure should run for the next one if this withdrawal was now the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to make a statement? [[He does.]] On behalf of the Novi Slovenije Group, Comrade Drobnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal of the People's Party to postpone this decision. So we want a different proposal to be made to seriously consider all the characteristics before the proposal. We have noted that the choice for a candidate of the Constitutional Court has not been appropriate and therefore the procedure needs to be repeated and the President of the State should reconsider these proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u11	First, I demand peace in the hall! That's the first thing. Without this, it is not possible to bring the debate forward properly. Please! If not, I'll schedule a five-minute break. Mag. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I can hardly talk because that's how it works. We support the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party in the Social Democratic Party Group. We believe that, with the withdrawal of this proposal, the President has partly reversed the procedure for the appointment or election of two new constitutional judges. We believe that this is due, in particular, to the serious concerns we have seen in the last days for a rather related process and process, so we think that the relaunching of the procedure for both could somehow contribute to a harmonised and, of course, a more balanced proposal, rather than making part of the process today and, of course, only part of the process below. We therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u13	My colleague Potts, on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you very much. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the election of the candidate for a constitutional judge should take place today. Two proposals were prepared for the election of two Constitutional Judges or Judges. These two proposals are separate and we, as Members of the National Assembly, must vote separately on each proposal. It seems to us that, after the proper procedure has been carried out by Kviaz, when there has been no question on the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission, whether the procedure for a candidate for a constitutional judge should continue to be interrupted by this work now. I understand and have in mind the concerns that have been raised about individual candidates and candidates in Kviaz, but Members and Members will express these substantive concerns by voting for or against the candidate proposal, but not by saying that we want to do so, I would like to make a package decision later, if any, of proposals that each of us, as an individual, would fully agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the group want a word explaining their views? I'm just asking. [[No, no, ……]] Then the proposer has the opportunity to further explain his proposal. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. I will only briefly explain the proposal of the Group of Members. First of all, I would like to say that we have not been able to discuss this proposal with our fellow heads of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, because we were able to take this decision today when we received the letter from the President of the Republic. Secondly, the deadline is relatively short. The President of the State stated that he would publish the seat of Judge of the Constitutional Court within the following days. In doing so, he gave a clear signal to the national assembly, and so we understood that his decision would only take place in accordance with the procedure, but relatively quickly. And if today the majority of the National Assembly would support our proposal, I am sure that we could decide on proposals by the President of the country no later than in May. I didn't discuss names. Our procedural proposal has nothing to do with Mrs Krisper Kramberger's proposed candidacy. However, it is necessary to make one point a little clearer. The question, which is called the political and visual balance of the Constitutional Court, can be decided on and influenced by only two structures of the Slovenian State: the President of the Republic, when he proposes, and the Members and Members when we decide. No one else. Experts can write, the media can publish various confrontations, and we decide. Five years from now, the National Assembly will be back before the proposal for a large number of new constitutional judges. Whatever you take, you need to know that a warning from a former Constitutional Judge mags. Guilt has its own weight. He's got his own weight. And now it's up to us to think about that warning. And we have the right option, and in no way will we diminish the importance and credibility of the Magi candidacy. Crisper's, nothing. However, it is possible for the President of the country to propose another candidate and candidate and then the National Assembly to decide. I am convinced that if the National Assembly supported our procedural proposal today, it would allow the next proposal by the President of the State to be supported by a very large majority of Members and Members of Parliament for both vacancies, a constitutional judge and a judge. However, if this proposal is not adopted, there will, of course, be a so-called political and illustrative division in the National Assembly. That is why I appeal to you to support our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u17	In accordance with Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, we have exhausted the possibility of performances by qualified debaters. We will move on to a decision on the proposal to postpone this item to one of the future meetings. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal to move this item to one of the future meetings. 69 in attendance, 23 in, 43 in. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal did not get the required majority. So we can go back to the 32nd point. I ask if the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic wishes to speak. [[He doesn't want a word.]] The Commission addressed the proposal for elections, appointments and administrative matters as a parent labour. I'm asking the president if he wants a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] Does he want the word "secretariat"? I guess not. The same goes for the government. I therefore ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I note, they wish, Comrade Podobnik, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a decision on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a mag as a constitutional judge. Maria Krisper Kramberger. When we decided, a good year ago, in this Assembly, that Professor Dr. Cyril Ribičič should be elected as a Constitutional Judge, I then performed very similar words to what I am going to perform today. In the Group of Members, we feel that sometimes things need to be said very clearly and unequivocally to draw attention to the problem. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the candidate has mag. Maria Krisper Kramberger from a professional point of view all the characteristics and characteristics that are also fairly clearly defined by the Constitutional Court Act. Our position is not linked to her as an expert and as a person, but if we want to make clear the dilemma we are facing, then I must say here that the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not support the mags. Marie Krisper Kramberger for the Constitutional Judge. In doing so, we would like to raise in public, despite the fact that the vote will be secret, a problem which is called the necessity of the political and visual balance of the constitutional court. This is a topic, which is a matter of substance related to the credibility of the Constitutional Court. Last night we saw two views on this issue on Slovenian public television. I must admit that when I looked at the video of this encounter today, I was surprised at the consistency and principle shown by the mag on this issue. Matovž Krivic. Why am I mentioning him? Because he is a former constitutional judge, and because four of the possible coalition partners, LDS, the combined letters, the then SLS + SKD and DeSUS, were written in an open letter to the President of the Republic and to Members in those days, before one and a half years ago. He maintained his position and insisted that, in fact, when he voted on these two seats, the National Assembly held the question of the necessity of political and visual balance in the constitutional court for five years. I must also tell you that in my discussions with the President of the Republic, I have always raised this issue, always in a cultural way. The president has always stressed that this is not a legal criterion. This is not a legal criterion, but it is actually a European norm, if I may say so, or perhaps a standard of very well-known models of the functioning of constitutional courts. I am convinced that, when it comes to the political and visual definition of a constitutional judge, this does not mean that this is an intervention in his privacy or that the issue of his expertise is being raised here. But the fact remains that it has also been made clear publicly that we should not be blinded by the possibility of politically neutral and undeclared constitutional judges. There may be some exceptions, but the system cannot be based on rare exceptions, but on what happens normally and normally. It is so everywhere in the world, and we are part of this world, not some imaginary land beyond reality. I quoted the position of the former Constitutional Court from a year and a half ago, but today I received his public letter on the bench saying that when it was first critical of the Slovenian right, as it said when it had more power, it was not wise enough to support the proposal of former colleague Peršak, that the quorum for the election of constitutional judges would change, but it was waiting and speculating and now it says, well, now she has taken note of this issue. Better late than never and then continues: "I hope that the left-wing bloc will be able to achieve so much principle, even though it thinks that it will not forever be in power, that at this time the two judges will voluntarily land at least 1:1," in a round of "satellitely until the end of this term, the matter will also be regulated by system law." Former Constitutional Judge Magi. In this proposal, when he speaks of this, conditionally stated, division 1:1 if the criteria of the political and visual balance of the Constitutional Court were to be adopted, of course, then they would not speak publicly about these issues. But that would be a self-evident fact that would be taken into account by the President of the Republic. A year and a half ago, he was a magician. Krivic was even more bold, for he suggested that if we want the current composition of the Constitutional Court to be at least approximately balanced in the new elections for the two Constitutional Judges in spring 2002, he would expect the Slovenian Left to allow two conditionally to be elected from this point of view by the right-centre constitutional judge. I am aware that I have opened a sensitive question, but I have opened it with all responsibility, with all due respect for the Magi's candidacy. Krisper Kramberger, and I'm sure today we're just going to sweep the problem under the rug, but we're not going to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u19	This was the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. He would like another group to present its views. Mr Pohorec on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Our Group of Members is the following opinion. If we now have an established proposal by the President of the State for a single seat in a constitutional court that meets both the professional and other criteria that the President has taken into account so far in the formulation of his proposal, we are in order today to complete this city, to join forces and seek the next candidate for the next vacant seat. From the very explanation of Ms Krisper Kramberger's proposal, mag. the legal sciences, which is now a saint at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, a member of the Civil Division of the Supreme Court since 1991, that is to say, for more than 10 years, that she has confirmed her reputation in this area, the lawyer examined, that she has worked as an expert at the Supreme Court for so long, even in the economic field or department, that we are satisfied with this explanation of this proposal. We particularly appreciate its contribution or its involvement in the European scale, as it operates in this international framework in the field of human rights. And also because there are many times between us and the public, in the media, the question of what attitude we have to equal opportunities for women, in this case this is an offer that can give us confirmation that, as we say many times, we are also acting. If we also accept this proposal from the President of the country. In our view, it is not that we now have to wait for another to be found due to a well-formed and well-founded proposal. We propose that this be done today and that we support the candidate with all responsibility and with all that we like to talk about, even with action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. Since I don't have written-in applications, I limit it to five minutes. He will first present his position with colleague Školč. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much. With this proposal made by the People's Party and all the 'leporec' in which it is packed and where Matevž Krivic is supposed to be hiding from behind, I would hope to say, knowing Matevža Krivica, that he would now produce a greater amount of electricity, because surely his discussion was not a discussion against an individual candidate or candidate. And this must be some kind of overturning of words in a different context. But it doesn't matter. What interests me in this matter and where I refer the question to my colleague Podobnik is how he got his hands on the data on the candidate's political affiliation. From the argument we have and transmitted by the President of the Republic or his office, it appears that this is a proposal drawn up at the general meeting of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, signed by the President of the Supreme Court of Mags. Mitja Deisinger that this court, as its judge and a civilian specialist, is running for office as a candidate or a judge. Does this mean, according to the likeness, that the court, under the leadership of Mr. Deisinger, was in charge of political affiliation? I'm afraid this is a very serious accusation against the court. Does this possibly mean that the court belongs to one of the political options? This is an even worse charge for the judiciary. But "impersonate" opposition means that and nothing else. We can see from the explanation that this is a long-term judge with a practically uninterrupted internship in court. It is one place, and from this point of view, I think that Mr. Sponik, who opened it before the National Assembly, is obliged to say where he has located this judge - if he wants to convince us - on the basis of some information and arguments. That would be the first question, and later would be ready to ask the second. Otherwise, it's hard to take his accusations seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica? Please, colleague Podobnik, a replica of the performance of colleague Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate to my colleague at school for a moment. I spoke earlier on behalf of the Group of Members, but now I will speak for myself. I didn't accuse anyone of anything in my performance, and we can go look at the magnetogram, because I was very clear on this issue. I said that sometimes it's necessary to sharpen things in order to point to the problem. We can only talk about this topic here and now, and in two months, when another proposal comes forward, and then the case will be closed for five years. I speak with full responsibility. The question of the political and visual balance of the Constitutional Court is a question that has not grown on my pupil, with all seriousness, opened by an eminent professional personality. I'm not hiding behind a mag. To blame, I've only used his clear thoughts for my argument, that's all. I am sure that we have discussed these issues too little in the National Assembly. Worldwide, however, the deep political role of the Constitutional Court and its exceptional importance, as far as possible, is well known, of balanced political and political configurations. If we follow the proposal of the Group to postpone today's decision on the proposal for a respectable lady candidate for a constitutional judge, and if we understand our proposal to get a good two-month proposal for an additional seat, I think I have indicated in an corrective manner a very wise way a way out of this situation. And that's what we suggested. Of course, I cannot agree that candidates and candidates for a constitutional judge should not be referred to as their orientation and visual orientation. It's an integral part of every human being. The Constitutional Judges are also men of blood and flesh. I think there's a magician at this meeting last night. Blame that very nicely illustrated. In fact, we have now opened the question that will happen. Someone has already written down and sent an assessment to Members and Members of Parliament that now, conditionally speaking, there will be no political balance and visual, as he says, a ratio of 3:6 or even 1:8. That's what an ex-constitutional judge said. These are the questions. Of course, we will respect the decision of the National Assembly. But the problem will remain. But the problem will remain. The questions are not from years and a half ago, but today they are even more topical than they were then. If the future coalition and the left parliamentary majority in general in May 2002 - then it is mag. Krivic predicted that this would happen in May 2002 and that we still have two months, three months to go, and perhaps ever more - if there is an opportunity and you do not do so, then the credibility of the constitutional court as institutions in Slovenia can be wasted and the damage will be immeasurable. The responsibility of the Left and its majority in the present National Assembly is therefore, in this sense, historical. I do not know if I am obliged to be here at the hearing by my fellow Members. But if you ask me any more questions, I'm going to keep answering what I just said. And I'm sure I'm actually right. The political and value balance of the Constitutional Court is an element that enhances credibility and is an integral part of each institution. And the more balanced it is - so it needs to be balanced with wisdom - the more credible it will be and the more respectful it will be. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u25	My friend Skull wants to replicate your performance. Then I have two more hands, just to be clear - the hand of colleague Jerovska and colleague Run for the replica at the last performance. Yes or no? It's a debate. Okay. A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr President, I know it is unusual to ask a Member what he meant when he said something, and I also know that Mr Sponik does not need to answer my question. However, I would point to the situation where, for example, Mr Podobnik would be an authorised proposer, then, of course, he would not be able to avoid this reply. You couldn't have avoided it. Because he wants to influence the National Assembly in its decision and because the National Assembly will take decisions, he is ultimately obliged to give honest answers to claims as a person who refers to him. It is his duty to tell us how politically important the candidate we are discussing and how forward-looking this candidate is if we are to believe that this is indeed a balance. This is a duty, I will say, from another morality, which he is trying to represent in the Slovenian public space, to make. He simply cannot hide here for what Mr Krivic said in the principle of the composition of the Constitutional Court. I can agree with him, but I want to know how this is shown in this particular case. As if it were possible to make a comparison with that candidate who was withdrawn, where some relevant questions were raised and because of these issues, the decision did not even come to an end. Therefore, it would be very good to know how the drawer, if it is already using this argument, nasorskoe and political individuals in there and a new candidate. However, I believe that he will not be able to do so, because there is no data on this type of activity of this candidate and that it is going to be, I will say, a manner that is not only mannered by this noble right, which Mr. Podobnik is talking about, but also by any other political options, that they are not willing to support those candidates they do not know who they are or who they are. I fear that this candidate is good in this respect because she is not from anyone and that the Slovenian People's Party is not ready to support her because she does not know whose she is. That's my thesis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u27	I would ask for peace in the hall. I'm going to give my word to my buddy Potsch. He will be replicated by his colleague Podobnik. For the discussion are colleagues Kangler and Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Dear colleague Janez Sponik! I am replicating for the reason that I think that, in the course of the principle debate, which has been brought to a concrete level, we could have a different view and a different approach. I take your warnings on the question of the visual balance of the Constitutional Court. Personally, I am not idealistic enough to expect that things will always be able to be perfectly set up, but as close to an ideal as possible, it would be better. And this is mainly because all of us, until every decision of the Constitutional Court, have not only a formal but also a substantively increased confidence that it is indeed a professionally verified decision, without the excessive visual or political influence of the person who has taken the decision; I say, without too much, because I also agree with those who point out that, at the end of the day, the highest-ranking expert is still a person with some of his or her visual views on the world which he or she integrates into decisions. Just, take this principled view of the current concrete behaviour, but I do not think it is objective enough, and in this part I agree with the concerns which, although in its own way - I would not know them in this way - said my colleague Školč. I myself have been in the position to propose these candidates on behalf of the parliamentary group this time, and so far we have said that we will follow the criteria that Mr President-designated country, who also proposes that we believe that the high professional criteria are justified, but that we should also count on the high moral qualities that emerge through work. And we have never asked a particular question, although for many candidates and candidates we are much closer than for the current candidate mags. Maria Krisper Kramberger, known about their past, also political engagement. And we are, Comrade Podobnik, aware of this when we were ready to vote and to help elect also candidates who were undoubtedly not left foregone. That is why I think it is right for all of us to take care together that the best constitutional judges and judges are elected individually and professionally, that this time, Comrade Sponik, a reference to these criteria in a particular case is a matter of desire and a definition which, in some ways, the Ombudsman has already said that it will not support these proposed candidates, because some of them she prefers as priorities were not included in this round. This is a possible decision, but I think it would make her say it fairly and honestly, but not, I would say, cover it up with these fundamental questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. The word for the replica is now given by Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I appreciate the thought of my colleague Potč, who in the criticism of my performance was much more relenting than my colleague Školč. I think my colleague, Potsch, has indicated that he is aware of the sensitivity of this issue. This is a dilemma that the National Assembly has never debated in this way since we have a constitutional court. But we can only discuss it here and now. There's no other way. I was also aware that I would receive some somewhat sharper forums, but this is something completely normal in Parliament. I would like to thank my colleague Školč for the compliment that we are also trying to open up the issues of the Slovenian politicians with all the problems, because we are all bleeding under the skin here too. But I would remind you of something. In a way, I feel obliged to say publicly that I have the legitimate right to speak about it in this way, because in the last two talks with the President of the State, I have always talked about it, and I have also talked about it when we elected Dr Cyril Ribičič. I've got the stenograms here. At that time it went well, even in this small hall in Tomšičev, it literally slipped away. But that's the "passé" thing. At that time, many questions could be raised even more sharply than they are today. And my colleague, School, is likely to agree with me here. Even as for the right-hand man and that, when I mentioned the left-hand man or the left-liberal block, I didn't want to be offensive in anything. This is a normal European division left, right, left centre, right centre, human Christian, liberal, social-democratic - this is something normal. So I'm talking about a substantive question. You have to understand that I'm not going to buy your twisted idea that I'm here to talk about these issues in the way you expect me to. I don't need that. I don't need that. In advanced democracies, there are mechanisms for doing so without being talked about. And this is what the President of the State and then the National Assembly are talking about. And our proposal at the outset to postpone the decision and then decide for two months would be the best solution to this problem. I'm sorry you didn't understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. A colleague of Jerovšek, a colleague of Pohorec, now has the words for the replica. You wanted a replica, Comrade Pohorec, or a debate? It's a debate. Well, then there's Comrade Kangler in front of you. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will respond or respond to that part of my colleague Školč's performance when he told his colleague Podobnik that he did not actually support the election of candidate mags. Krisper Kramberger because she's no-one's candidate, and this doesn't suit my colleague Sponik. I suppose and put something on my fellow schoolboy that the candidate isn't from anyone, a little bit of the truth. That at the LDS, they discussed the candidate and found that they could not expect her to be their candidate. And that's why I'm going to support the candidate mags. Mary Krisper Kramberger, because on the basis of these performances, I believe that she is actually a neutral candidate. I don't know about a candidate practically any different than what I read in the explanatory statement, but I think she's certainly a quality judge, a civilian, and I think that by supporting a neutral candidate at this point, she's a little bit of a damaged visual composition of our constitutional court. I'm sure today, even if we were to elect two judges, it's too late to balance the Constitutional Court. His mental inclination is clearly present and on this side the President of the State in previous appointments and candidates was not attentive and was not prepared to listen to such advice, including mag. Guilty. There's another thing. In fact, I am afraid that because I believe that the candidate is politically neutral, she will not be elected and will be insolvently mined from this side of the political space. Indeed, this part of the political space has voted strictly against candidates who did not meet all the criteria for this part of the political space in the last period. I think it is very wrong that we are actually deciding on this candidate today and doing her a bad service because we are deciding in the context of the events that have taken place in the past days with another candidate. The media lynching experienced by the candidate for the second seat of the Constitutional Court, despite the fact that 13 years ago he probably took a somewhat strange view of the environment, which is sometimes impatient to, say, drug centers or something like that. We have had a lot of this in Slovenia, and in such cases people are quite intolerant and do not want to have such centres in their environment. However, I am sure that the vote on Mr Kres Puharič's behaviour came to the President of the State before he broke out in public. According to the media that opened this affair, I'm sure they've previously contacted the Presidential Palace. That's why I think Kresha Puharič was lured into a trap because I think he's politically neutral. I don't know him either. This time, however, it was difficult to avoid proposing politically neutral candidates and had to be mined and subdued in another way. And I think it was about mine neutral candidates and discrediting the Constitutional Court. With what has happened, there has been a severe discreditation of the independence of the Constitutional Court. I'm pretty sure. [[...]] [[Pisk.]] . I will continue the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Last line, at least reported, I have a colleague from Kebrich, and I'm going to put my word behind him to my colleague Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I repeat to my respectable colleague Janez Podobnik, because I do not quite understand what this connection of this candidate to a future candidate would be when we do not know which one will be. I'm not even completely familiar with it, because I can't see into anyone's heart what kind of political option he has if he doesn't publish it. If he publishes it, I can trust him. However, if it is not published or says that it wants or wants or thinks that it is objectively neutral, this matter is not related to the other candidate's candidacy. If the second candidate is one or the other and the first, the first candidate is the one we have, as proposed by the President of the country at Kviaz, and we have been cleaning up the professional and other issues of this candidate, I think it is right to elect today. However, each of us has the right to define and vote internally, as he thinks, according to his own conscience, that he is right. We can be in, we can be in. Voting is classified. No one is formally responsible for how he will vote. So it is not clear to me, and I repeat once again, what is the causal link between not choosing today or not choosing it, but connecting it to another. Because for the second time, we also do not know whether she will be elected or not to be elected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Two shows. Would you like to discuss this further, Comrade Jerovšek? Replica, Comrade Jerovšek. You have the floor, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u36	Although I thought that we had concluded the dilemma of linking the elections of the two candidates that would have been held in May, my colleague Kebrich, with a large dose of connotation, how the election of the proposed candidate would have been linked to the election or to the failure of today's other candidate, I think he called for a reaction. I don't think we can move around like this. We all know that the withdrawal of one candidate and the other candidates are politically strongly linked. It's a bad time today, because we're doing damage to a candidate, Mrs. Mag. Maria Krisper Kramberger, because in this context we decide on this matter. We should be able to convince ourselves of a significant number of things. Actually, I don't like the way the other candidate was eliminated. I believe that, in this case, the President of the State, who must have been informed of his previous conduct - according to the media from which he came, must have consulted the President of the State - that he should have insisted and refused the withdrawal of the candidacy, given the previous conduct of the President of the State when he once again proposed a candidate rejected by this National Assembly. In that case, the President of the State did not believe the arguments of the National Assembly and the political arguments prevailed. In this case, he immediately accepted the withdrawal of another candidate's candidacy. Of course, I am not rooting for this candidate and I do not agree with his conduct at the time, but I see a significantly larger problem in this, the problem of interfering with policy in the judiciary. This is a major political interference in the judicial branch of power. And, as I said, Mr Kebrič, please try to understand that these matters are certainly connected and that I think this candidate, whom Mr Školč said he does not know whose it is to be eliminated through the elections, will be, in my opinion, eliminated. So far, such candidates have been in the last two, three years, who, at the time of the election, have not clearly demonstrated their political affiliations, always eliminated or not proposed at all, have not come into a wider selection. As a result, there is still a great deal of link between the withdrawn candidate and today's candidate candidate, which I clearly say will support, precisely because I think there is also an attempt to eliminate candidates who politically do not show sympathy for a ruling party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. With this we have exhausted the replicas, so we can continue the discussions. My friend Kangler and his friend Pohorec. This will also, at least according to my list, close the debate, so I invite colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members! I would not like to discuss, in this case, the expertise of Mrs Marie Crisper Kramberger or Mr Puharič, his media lynch, about his morals. I think that colleague Jerovšek about his morale some things are good principles. I was very surprised when the president of the State Council proposed these two candidates, not because of their name, not because of their expertise. I do not want to speak, as some have spoken today in this Chamber or have thought and divided the constitutional judges to the left and to the right. However, I can say that the Constitutional Judges or that the Constitutional Judges were elected to their function on the left or on the right. I think we have constitutional judges who have been trained enough for their functions. The question is what political support they had, not to whom they belonged We are a very young country with a young democracy, and we do not look across the border at how where 50- or 100-year-old democracy is developed, solve the problem and candidature of constitutional judges. In our given case, the President of the State has full responsibility. And it is the President of the State who should ensure that the Constitutional Judges are elected to the Constitutional Court, both on the left and on the right, and that they have support both on the left and on the right. This is not just about the responsibility of the President of the State. This is also the responsibility of all of us who are sitting here today, especially the leaders of the parliamentary groups and also the opposition parties, who should be a little more reasoned and professionally represented by the President of the country. I don't know why you wouldn't believe the words of Lord Magi. Guilty. If I asked you when you elected him as a Constitutional Judge, when you were in this National Assembly, what you had to say about him, when this gentleman, after his term of office, points out some things in this country, is no longer an expert and no longer a moral person, if some of the things that normally develop democracy are normal, he warns. That's one problem I see personally. The second problem is whether we believe it or not, we have witnessed, recently, that too much is concentrated in Slovenia: either capital, economic, political or economic - mainly political. And if we look at the executive power today - where is it concentrated? If we look at the legislative authority that someone wants to change the way the election takes place in the National Assembly, to change the electoral system, if we look at today's court-martialed fellow Member of Parliament, I ask you whether Northeastern Styria with the university can't get through any candidates. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u39	Just a reminder of the subject matter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u40	Isn't that the subject of discussion, Mr President-respected? You must have picked me up a few seconds for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u41	Excuse me. I'm not gonna buy you any time. You have the right to him, and I have the duty to point out what is the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u42	We have no constitutional judge from the University of Maribor or from northeastern Slovenia. It's like we can't beat legal experts. And for some, this is going to be very funny, and I ask you, how much do we get out of the 35 supreme judges? Just two. How many members do we have in the judiciary? Not one. I don't want to get any more points on this, I don't want to warn you about this any more. However, I tell you that we have a very young country and if we allow the executive power, the judiciary and, like capital, economic and political, and economic activity to become too concentrated, I have a feeling that this country will start to crack. Some will find it funny, but I'm afraid we all know exactly where this seam can go. And to conclude, if you'll allow me, the Honourable President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u43	Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u44	In view of some of the arguments put forward by the leader of the parliamentary group, I will not take part in the protest in voting for a candidate for a constitutional judge, even though I do not recognise her expertise. Out of solidarity with my colleague Puksic, who was, in my opinion, a brief constitutional right today, given that his fellow Member has publicly asked him to participate when the Constitution gives him this right, according to his election, that I would like to participate in the election of the Constitutional Judge, I will not participate in the vote concerning the Constitutional Judge, Mrs Maria Crisper Kramberger; and once again, I stress that there is no reason for her expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that again. I'll try to be moderate and brief. I fully respect the legitimate right of all those who have their own views on this, and there is nothing to say. This is what Parliament is for us to talk about. In the end, we will either vote or we will vote on a result. When I first spoke to the President of the country about nothing - whether Mrs Crisper belongs to the left or the right, but only about whether she has her own personal professional qualities so that she can play this role. And we found out that. And so is our opinion. The second time I talked to him, he said, "Have you found anyone else suitable?" - before Mr. Puharic decided. And Mr Kangler as a Mariborian you have all the opportunity or you have all the opportunity now to find a constitutional judge in Maribor. It is desirable that we come from the base with candidates to the President of the State. I think that's perfectly legitimate. And I think it's time we stopped qualifying the Supreme Court, to whom it belongs, as we used to like to say or hear in the past. When I wasn't here, I heard a lot about whose hands there was a constitutional court. However, I would refer once again only to what is also stated in the explanation of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which in my view cannot be counted either left or right, but it has written down what characterises the candidate as extremely suitable for this role. She tells her qualities, says her publicist work, says that she studied in France, probably not Marxism, but Frankfurt, probably not Leninism, but she studied something completely different that gives her those morals or - I apologize for that word - those professional qualities and knowledge that she can play this role. If we now reject this opinion, which the Supreme Court also has, then we must also give him some qualifications. But I don't want to judge myself, respect him, even the Supreme Court, the judges and all those who helped write it down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. A colleague of Kangler, a colleague of Barovic, applied for the replica. You have a show, Comrade Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u48	Dear fellow Members, as you well know, it is not the mission of the Member to seek out a constitutional judge, not after Maribor, not after northeast Slovenia. You personally, when you come from there and I myself often move among legal experts in the city of Maribor or northeast Slovenia, you have to ask yourself why none of these experts apply. And which of these parliamentary parties in this composition would support such an expert. That's the problem. But you know what it means to have one legal expert apply for a Constitutional Judge and get support, and then either in Parliament or with the President of the State, he rises up. Ask yourself how many times such legal experts have been raised because they have not received the support of either the parliamentary groups or the president of the country. Go ahead and put yourself in your shoes and think about it a little bit. And once again, we are not the Members invited to look for constitutional judges. The question is whether we can't get through any candidate from northeastern Slovenia who could sit and be a legal expert and serve in a constitutional court. Personally, I am asked a big question when I see other branches of government concentrating on one place. And what I said earlier, around the judiciary and the Supreme Court, and what is most worrying to me is that in this country someone wants to change the electoral system in such a way that they also know the authorities that I hope today that we have Members from every end of Slovenia - we set up the system to concentrate everything in one place. Personally, my dear fellow Pohorec, I am not blind, but others I ask: Open your eyes and you will see where this is going.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u49	A colleague of Jerovšek has been reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much. In fact, I am replicating Mr Pohorc, and somehow I am also referring to Mr Kangler. Indeed, Mr Pohorec, it is true that it should be asked, as Mr Kangler asked, why legal experts do not apply. And it is important to ask which of them will be ready to join the future - given the well-directed matter with Mr Puharic. That's not supposed to happen. I also ask the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic why the President has proposed, despite, I am sure, the knowledge of Mr Puharic's activities, of his statements, because subsequent discrimination against Mr Puharič is the worst service we could have done to the legal order and constitutional order in this country. On the basis of this story, no one will really dare to report because they do not know what the centres of power are ready for anyone who does not fit their political image, who is not prepared to follow their interests strictly. Mr Puharič here says that this is due to his unprofessional activities in the economic sphere. Do you know what that means? It is said that he disobeyed some lobbyists and was framed at the right time. The one who proposes should already do so because I am sure of the knowledge I should not allow this to happen with an eminent legal expert in the economic field, because this is an incredibly bad service to further apply to a good candidate. [[...]] [[...]] The quality of the Constitutional Court will deteriorate, certainly because so far it has been a problem to obtain applications, candidates for quality legal professionals. After that, it will be significantly bigger. I'm sure that's what this was all about. In the new country, the Constitutional Court was often thorny in five and feared its independence in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your show. Comrade Kebrich and my friend Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Jerovšek! I'm replicating that sentence, four, five words, when you said why some people don't choose to run. I would remind you of the times when one was said to have run and knew in advance that he would be elected. It's like that in democracy. We who have run for Members have also had competition. The voters decided from a large range of candidates, whoever they thought was real, in their opinion or opinion. Therefore, it is not right to attack why not - everyone had the opportunity. And I agree with my colleague Kangler. But it is up to us to decide and when we are called to the President of the State, when we talk about constitutional judges and others, which is within his competence to propose that we try to put our opinions into practice in him already. Then it's a matter of how we behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u53	Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u54	My replica to my colleague Jerovšk may be unusual - that I agree with his opinion, especially with that first debate. It was extremely objective, and so we should actually ask ourselves several times - whether we will now consider the Supreme Court to be a 'non-necessary', each candidate to be dismembered to the end, but who will really be prepared from those top experts to strip him of his soul and body in this middle, and ultimately not to choose when he has a good position, a good place, a good reputation, but here this, they or third medium, will find some mistake, one, third, perhaps also from the past, and this will become, as today, as it is to be put on the cross or I don't know where. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u55	Comrade Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u56	My colleague Kebrich, because I think I was misunderstood. Mr. Kebrich, you've made it clear to me that it's not right to attack legal professionals, why they don't apply. I didn't say that and I didn't attack them either, and I totally understand them that they're making very difficult choices about running for office with everything that's going on. I want to protect them. And I would like to see the best lawyers run in the future in the Constitutional Court. In my opinion, this choice was among the candidates who have been nominated - they have been good candidates, but they do not correspond to those who may majority elect candidates as constitutional judges. I would like you, Mr Školč, to explain to us how you came to the conclusion that the proposed candidate is no one. I would like to know, namely, that it would help me in the elections, and because I rely on Mr Školč's rise, this was based on something, because his rise is falling away from the gray average. That is why I would really like him to respond to my reaction to his words and explain to us why he came to such a conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u57	I now give my word to my colleague Barovic and remind him that this is the last performance on my list. Would you like to replicate, Comrade Skolch? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u58	Of course, I would not have called if I had not constantly challenged my colleague, Mr Sponik, to say when I intended to balance the future proposal of the President of the Republic with regard to the Constitutional Court and to say which side of the scale he is giving the candidate we are deciding on. And in this context, I have said that I suppose he doesn't know, as we don't know, about her visual and political beliefs; I have guessed that myself. I agree with my colleague, of course, that in some way these things do not have to be discussed in this national assembly, so that they do not even qualify in the context of the elections of constitutional judges or other places where a visual or political definition is not required to talk about them. That's wrong. I agree with him. That's rude. But this speech began him, and this indecency began him; and therefore I called him to be, as it is called, a man, and to say what is with it. In this context, I have talked about people having to be responsible for their words, because the only actions in this House are words; he does not want to take responsibility for the words. It refers to some text that came about before we even had this proposal on a table that is in no way relevant to this candidate. And out of this, my colleague Jerovšek, I speculated that it was behind, but in this case I allowed the possibility that other political options sometimes have similar manners, that they wanted to shop with the President of the Republic about candidates. I object to that. That is why I will support this candidate, given what has been heard in the procedure of this appointment. That's all speculation about all this. On the other hand, I agree that it is rude to talk about this, and I repeat that what is dangerous is what my colleagues are now saying that we would have regional judges, or that we should have judges supported once by the lion, a second right option. That's one way, another way to support the judges. This is even contrary to the Constitution, with the solutions of the law, also at odds with the practice of saying so, liberals and I hope to say also to the lefties, who unfetteredly supported the judges in the first reference, regardless of which side they came from. It can be looked at in the minutes as to how many votes were elected. This pattern of shopping was created later and it's bad and it's time to stop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. My friend Kangler signed up for the replica. Comrade Companion then.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I would like to replicate to my colleague Školč in this part when he spoke about the election of constitutional judges from the left or right. Dear fellow Member! I didn't talk about it. You've got it all wrong. I was talking about the support given to the Constitutional Judges in the National Assembly, either on the left or on the right. That's the truth, dear fellow schoolboy. Take a look and get some magnetograms of debate and support from all constitutional judges in the last five, six years that we have elected in the National Assembly. It is well known whether these constitutional judges had the support of the left hand if I may speak so, either on the right hand side or on the side of all the parties. There have been such cases. Therefore, it would also be very good, as well as for the reputation of the Constitutional Court, for such proposals to come to the National Assembly, which would have the support of several parties, including some on the left or some on the right. And that is the responsibility of the President of the State, secondly, the Parliament which elects these Constitutional Judges, and also the leaders of the parliamentary groups, when they negotiate with the President of the State and deliver their opinions. And the leaders of the parliamentary groups should also think in this direction that the Constitutional Court - like the Mag. Matvež Krivic has already made it clear on several occasions in his performance - that the composition of constitutional judges must be one that will be balanced between the political options of the left or right. I didn't say that. It is true, however, that every constitutional judge elected in the National Assembly had political support for the various parties, either left or right. That's not a secret. And I did not speak personally about the Constitutional Judges and define them, and even at the beginning of my speech, I specifically pointed out that I do not want to define the Constitutional Judge as left or right. Because I trust this Constitutional Court, these legal experts, but I can tell you who elected them. Just about that. As far as "regional" is concerned, under the terms of you, Comrade Školč, is the second part of the truth. We do not witness the concentration of power only on the executive branch of power or any other, even in court. Just look at the lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u61	I find that we've exhausted the replicas, the last performance has - and I, Comrade Podobnik, have a replica. I'm sorry. Kolga Podobnik and behind you a colleague
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u62	A brief replica, a respected colleague of Školč, who then replicated to me at the question asked by his colleague Jerovská. I would like to replicate two topics: that my debate was impolite and therefore that it does not belong in this room and that it does not refer to the letter of one of the former Constitutional Judges and his date. First of all, we received a letter today, 26.3. starting with the phrase "In the current elections of two constitutional judges" and the complications and so on. I am so sure - that the matter is topical and comes out of the situation today and here. However, the second topic, which is related to the so-called impropriety, is that I would like to tell my respects to my colleagues and also to my colleague Školč that the President of the country touched on this issue in his statement to STA. He talked about it in public. If he can speak publicly, why can't I talk here? Indeed, it was a question of whether, if the law did not provide for a criterion, this does not mean that, in the case of the court as a whole, balance in this regard would not be allowed, but even necessarily necessary to think. In constitutional law, many indisputable principles are also unwritten, but they must be adhered to. Well, in his statement to the STA, the President of the State expressed his view that the candidate for Constitutional Judges, the President of the Republic, following such political guidelines, if not publicly known, has no right to ask questions. This was a statement by the President of the State for the STA. The culprit disagrees with this statement, says the President is wrong in this case. He says that such an opinion could be, above all, a reflection of a dominant opinion, both in the broadest and in the professional and political public in our country, that no one cares and that it should not be asked. Blame says that citizens do not - as he says, even on the census of the population, as you know, he also initiated an opinion in the Constitutional Court. However, in the case of candidates for election to a body where visual balance is essential for the successful performance of a constitutionally responsible authority, this is quite different in the Constitutional Court than in Parliament or the Government, the answer is quite the opposite. And here I would fully support this thought - let's shake off some false shyness about this issue once and let's all face the problem together. Then neither the President of the Republic nor the candidates nor the public will be able to object if he asks the candidates about it. Do we prefer to have an election "cat in a frog" in this regard when, until the first political or visually colored verdict, no one in the country knows what a forward-looking constitutional court we have? Or that this secret is devoted to few, while others live in the immature illusion of some kind of professional neutrality and are then, of course, disappointed. It is time to grow up in this regard and start acting like a mature or at least mature democracy. These are relevant questions, and I think it was entirely decent and dignified to open them up in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to my colleague Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you. Each item that comes under consideration in this National Assembly is the politicisation of a matter and is a matter of policy. This proposal on electorality is also politicisation and a matter of policy and it is spoken of in Parliament as any other thing, "parlare" - to speak about. And I think it is right, despite the fact that one coordination has been done that a Member, in this case Mr Podobnik, has the right to tell his colleagues that they have the right to replicate and all colleagues to speak; of course, another question is what and where they are going to speak. And that's why I'm talking about it. Because - here I cannot agree with Mr Kangler - we will be responsible for the election of the judge: we, the only one who will or will not be elected. I propose that we be aware of this and, of course, take up secret elections with this responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick's colleague wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also welcome Mr Schifter from the Office of the President of the State. Please correct me, Mr President, in case I am wrong, but I thought that when we were talking about a candidate, there is a candidate present; today we do not see a candidate here, although it would be good to be. When I listen to this debate, it seems to me that some people speak like angels, if nothing touches us, everything has to be clean and so on, we can't say that and that. Yeah, if we get to this level right here, then we're never gonna do anything about it. I think we should say these things and say them to each other. In fact, there is no need to ask anyone whether he is a candidate of this party or one of the parties. He knows a man by his behavior. And we have the right to ask that. For if we do not know how this person today or has behaved in the past, he or she was a member of one party or another, it does not matter how he responds to today’s problems and how this person will solve any problem at the Constitutional Court. That is why I think it is also appropriate to say that we are getting everything from the President of the candidate country in almost the same uniform. Look, if, for example, someone came here before our congregation with a different uniform: for the first time he couldn't come, because the president wouldn't have named him; for the second time, this whole national assembly would have gone up, probably. And it's the same with the ambassadors, for example. I've been on this committee for a year or so; I've never seen anyone who doesn't have the same background and uniform, and I haven't asked anyone before, but now I'm gonna start asking questions about it. I think let's face it: the positivity knows it can run us over whenever it wants to. Of course, that's why he's trying to keep the debate quiet. But that's all we have today, so we can say what we think. As far as the candidate is concerned, it seems to me that, after everything I know and the literature she wrote, there is nothing special, unless she missed some of the more sensitive things she wrote when she was under the old regime, I don't know that and I won't support that she did; but she's one of the candidates who came from somewhere that I don't know -- personally, because I don't know enough about her, I won't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Šiftar participates in the meeting of the National Assembly. He is a representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, he can reach out to the debate to explain whether he answers questions if he so wishes and assesses. I'll ask him later if he wants to participate in the debate. Do you want to be a part of this? Please, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u68	What has been said in this debate so far is what I would like to say, but of course in a different context, but it is neither necessary nor appropriate in this current context, nor is it my duty and would, of course, be justified to speak about things on my behalf as a human being as a lawyer. So I speak in the role that I am here today among you. I would like to answer to the honourable Member, Mr Jerovšek, the direct menu or institution I am presenting the question raised. And if you'll excuse me, there are three things I'd like to do, but I'd like to give you some additional explanations, or I'd like to repeat one of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u69	Please, you have the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u70	First of all, I could not hold and hold to the assumption expressed - I emphasise the assumption that this debate was so understood - that Prof. Dr. Kreša Puharič should be lured into a trap. This was an assumption that was not, as usual, when we were talking about the allegations made by any argument, no evidence. In the end, this is not expected. But they don't look back on that, and this assumption doesn't have any real basis. As a possible candidate for one of two vacant places in the Constitutional Court, Prof. Kreš Puharič was supported, among other things: the Union of Associations of Lawyers of Slovenia, whose official written support positive opinion was signed by Doc. Dr. Verica Trstenjak's Maribor Law School. Secondly, explicitly on the application or already submitted candidates for Prof. Kreš Puharič discussed the highest body of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana, that is, the Senate of this Faculty, adopted a positive opinion or explicit ecclesiastical support, which you also received. So from the beginning Prof. Dr. Kreš Puharič's candidacy was extremely serious, it was based - as - also on very, very qualified, competent, positive opinions. The alleged contentious, as a second explanation, disputed behaviour could also be repeated, as mentioned earlier. We're talking about the language of conjecture again. However, with all the necessary authority of the institution that I represent, I can ensure that there is no proposal for any alleged contentious behaviour, so the President of the Republic knew - I stress - about the alleged contentious behaviour that would have any effect or effect on the decision on the proposal submitted to you by the National Assembly. So, I can conclude on behalf of the institution, which I imagine that this assumption of alleged contentious behaviour which the President of the Republic is supposed to have previously known, unfortunately does not hold, or has no real basis. Third time. As the speaker, the President of the Republic, Mr Milan Kučan, has already been mentioned in the debate, of course, it would be possible and necessary to say in many respects with regard to the President of the Republic, but it would be limited to a brief summary of this part of the debate and also to the fact that he, or his statement, had already been quoted on 21 March or transmitted to the general public through this agency, to the part that deals most directly with today's debate. And if, Mr President, you allow Members of Parliament and gentlemen, I would only take a minute of time to literally summarize from the 21st of March his statement the part that seems to me to be very important in this context. The question of journalists or representatives of the STA was, inter alia: "Mr President, without this writing in the Youth candidate Prof. Puharic shows a relatively poor situation, given that the parties to the right election room point to the political balance of the situation in the court. For example, the Coalition People's Party today announced that it would not support Mr Puharič, because in its proposal they would not take this warning into account after the political balance of the Constitutional Court." The President of the Republic has answered this question directly, and I quote: "The criterion that the law knows is not. It is understandable that the people who are publicly exposed and in this public activity show political and visual affiliation, we take this into account. For people who do not show this in their performance, of course I have no moral or formal right or opportunity to ask them about their political definition. I also said that to the Members when they asked me. I think that it is impossible for both of these candidates, but certainly for the Supreme Court of Justice, Mrs Kramberger Crisper, to talk about political engagement on one side or the other. If, of course, Members think that this must also be formally placed among the criteria, they have every opportunity to amend and adequately formulate this provision of the law." End of quote. And if I may add, because there was also a comparison speech in today's debate, about how this area is regulated: in other countries, let me just remember that in one of the countries with which we are very often and also rightly compared, and also certain solutions we are summarising or still being, this question is very well settled: how, by what procedure and by what criteria, the composition of the Constitutional Court and who are all the candidates, including the direct founders of the Constitutional Court. Specifically, not to remain unknown in the air existing; I am thinking of an arrangement in the Federal Republic of Germany. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by finding that they do not take into account the gravity, the undeniable gravity of the debate, which points to a number of issues that will not be concluded today, it would be unwise, unreasonable and illusory to think in this direction, but to conclude that, in the entire debate, such as the debate held so far, Mr Bernick, noted, inter alia, that, although indirectly, he has found that there has not been in the entire debate, or at the meeting of the competent working body of the national assembly, no or any specific considerations on its competence, nor on other dimensions of its assessment as an expert or as a person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. This was therefore the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic. We are leading the debate. My friend Jerovšek wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Šiftar, the representative of the President of the State, for having responded to this important, undeniably weighty debate, as he said, where we have raised a number of relevant questions. I regret that on this side there is complete apathy, particularly Mr Školča, in this extremely important debate, which is important in defining the rule of law in Slovenia in the future. But allow me, Mr Šiftar, to offer a few more arguments for my thesis, which I am very afraid of the principles that perhaps Mr Puharič has been lured into a trap. However, I am not defending Mr Puharič, even his statements 15 years ago seem somewhat controversial to me. However, those who had knowledge of this should also be reminded of it in due time.In fact, just before, my colleague Anderlič told me that he did not support Mr Puharič with the President of the country. This means that, in the case of Mr Puharič, there was no criterion which Mr President often mentions, the criteria of emancipation, possible emancipation; because, as far as I know, our Group of Members did not support anyone. Thus, Mr Puharič, on the basis of the statements made by the parliamentary groups, had no opportunity to vote and was nevertheless proposed. I think that, with this knowledge, some other candidates had a better chance of being emancipated. And what does that mean? These are extremely important questions. And the sequel. In fact, now, after your performance and after this knowledge, which was given to me in the meantime, it seems to me that perhaps I understand Mr Puharič's statement better and what he is aiming for. He says, "That is why I believe that the withdrawal of the candidacy is an honorable duty because I do not want to give your political opponents the opportunity to enjoy the parliamentary demolition of the President's candidate." After this knowledge that Liberal Democracy is not a supporter of Puharič, I believe that there is a political opposition to the Liberal Democracy Group or this party, because there is a great deal of rivalry between President Drnovska and the President of the State, Mr Kučan. Because Mr Drnovšek said that President Kučan always works from the background, untransparent. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u73	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u74	In fact, if we take into account all these statements that have recently been thrown into political space, then we can [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u75	Let me interrupt.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u76	We see a broader dimension of the background of all these affair events, which, of course, we are weakening the rule of law in Slovenia in the long term. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u77	Comrade Jerovšek, please stick to the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u78	Yeah, I'm responding to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u79	I think you've gone beyond the scope of this debate. But I ask everyone else for peace in the hall, and now I will not count this time on your performance. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Before that, I will not give you the floor to proceed until there is complete silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u80	Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u81	You don't have a word yet. I ask for complete silence in the hall, otherwise there is noise, it disturbs the speaker and those who follow the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u82	Mr. President, thank you very much. But let me express the surprise that you, in my view, have the necessary reactions to this extraordinary, as Mr Šiftar has already said, unquestionably important and relevant questions that you have tried to stop me. In fact, I am responding only and I am trying to link political statements in this space in the context of these recent nominations. This statement by Mr Drnovska on the fact that Mr Kučan works primarily from the background is very fresh and I associate it with today's issues. I'm sorry, I think this is allowed to a member of the National Assembly. I want to be very transparent and very clear. I also call on others to respond to this important debate. In fact, I mentioned earlier my concerns that the last week's event has discredited the Constitutional Court, in whatever way it will work in the future. However, I am not defending Mr Puharic with this, because I know little about his activities. All I could read was that he was an excellent economic lawyer. The Constitutional Court was discredited. This should not have happened, I am sure that it should not have happened and that some in this country had an interest that this had happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u83	Look, now I'm going to give the floor to the two who signed up for the replica, Comrade Juban, first of all, you have the floor. Behind you, Comrade Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u85	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u86	At the same time, only man could say: the world is wrong. I have been using this term since Mr Podobnik said this in the invitation to a referendum for the establishment of new municipalities. That's when I agreed with him. But today we have the wrong world again. I do not know if the result of what my colleague Školč mentioned is that Mr Krivic is currently producing a large amount of electricity and that this energy has obviously been pumping into this Parliament that this wrong world is happening. For almost two hours, we are discussing a candidate who is the only candidate on the agenda, and without having any shortcomings in the application in one sentence, we are constantly talking about some possible constructive, errors, the politicisation of the Constitutional Court, for almost an hour now about a colleague or candidate Puharic, who is not at all the subject of the debate and the proposal of the President of the country. And the candidate, probably listening to us somewhere, from this House, if appointed, will go to the Constitutional Court and carry the burden from here to here in the wrong world. On Quiaz, you didn't use it for a single minute. And you couldn't tell anything. Today, we pass it to the little ones, how and whose it is, who it could belong to, to find her one mistake that would make us, I don't know, do with her. How can a man use - I don't know if we'd burn somewhere. And then there's this story of some constructs, of suspicions, when everyone points out that there's no mistake. Two hours. On Quiaz, not a minute. Come on, let's skip this wrong world and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u87	Comrade Partich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u88	Most of what I would like to say has just been said by a friend or a fellow Member of Parliament and a friend of Geza Juban. But to Mr Jerovsk he would be half joking, and he would believe that he would be well-intentioned, because in some way I am raising a friendly, not just a squire's feelings towards a fellow Member of Parliament. I would say that many times I listen, Sir Jerovšek, to your combinations from what has been thrown into the political space, and then you work out of it, I couldn't say that it's a literary thing, but it's called confabulating. You must be confabulating. And since I was a teacher, I know they're "confabulating" -- just lower-level kids or it's a pathological phenomenon that even psychiatrists deal with. And I'll tell you that this confabulation of yours - without wanting to be offensive, it belongs to this sphere. Nobody takes it very seriously either. We all smile a little. But you're a master of Confabulation for Liberal Democracy in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u89	I ask for a patient discussion to make everyone give up those attitudes that might arouse the feeling that it is an insult. I will give my word first to my colleague Kelemina, who also asked for a replica, and then to my colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! Respectable all together! Mr. Juban, and perhaps Mr. Shiftar, too. Mainly, what you say, Mr Juban, about the wrong world - I say the other way around: that we have had the wrong world so far in this area, but that we have started to have a different kind of discussion in some other spirit, in some other sense, and this is the real world in which we need to debate. This is a parliamentary debate and I do not think there has been anything completely wrong with today. That's my opinion, so I think we're in the right world now, not the wrong world. Mr Šiftar, Mr President's representative, I would like to comment on this. It is perfectly understandable that he, as a representative of that house, cannot speak differently and say otherwise, as he said. That's a fact. But we Members, and many in public, would certainly be very naive, at least I think, if we believed that Mr President of the State would speak publicly as he thinks, or as deep inside him. Well, not just him. All other politicians, when making public statements, are actually thinking significantly differently from what they say. They just want to be liked by the public, some neighborhoods, but in fact they may feel completely different within themselves. Thus, I firmly believe that what Mr Jerovšek is saying, my fellow Members, is not as bad as Mr Partljič speaks. I'm pretty sure maybe things are even more complicated. Indeed, the fact is that in this country, but certainly especially at a high political level, as is now the appointment or election of constitutional judges and so on, absolutely nothing happens by chance. Please, I beg you, where we live! Everything is designed, everything is watered, staged, plotted, parastatal, if you want, and anything else, it happens; but we accept it, because we do not have many times a look at the background. So please, the debate is correct, and Mr Podobnik has made the right stop today. We could discuss these things, make a key to how these things might really be behind the scenes, just as everything in this country is happening behind the scenes, agree on the key to how we will resolve these issues. There is no need to wash this laundry in front of the public, but to really agree on the key, and then, without any problems, we would confirm the constitutional judges as well as a number of other functions in this country, not with the problems we have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I have to replicate to Mr Partlich when he used it, I think it's Slovenian or, I don't know, a professional word, "confabulate." It means I'm probably making stories, stories. At first, I thought he was afraid that another Member would start writing articles in newspapers, I think, humorous and so on. Probably in this way to earn something extra, but I have no sense of it, but I have come to realize in further implementation that this is not about not being afraid of such competition, but about an unscrupulous attack on me and an insult. He tried to discredit my discussion today when I didn't think I was insulting anyone. However, I have touched on some, as mentioned by Mr Šiftar, important issues, relevant issues, as mentioned by Mr Podobnik. And if this is something bad in this House, then I repeat to the President of the German Parliament, Mr Thiese: "Who thinks the controversy in Parliament is something bad, this is nothing more than a glimmer of democracy." I think it's about squeezing democracy. And I think it's obvious to me that it's bad to read a little bit more material and also reactions and opinions than some other colleagues. I would prefer to read Sportskinos instead of some materials, because I also like to read newspapers, but in this matter I have deepened in some relevant matters today and have come to the relevant questions that I think I have legitimately asked. And, Mr President, I ask you not to allow such unscrupulous attacks and insults. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u93	Before I give the floor to my colleague Partljič, let me say that the debate is on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect two judges of the Constitutional Court, the proposal for one was withdrawn. I have already decided, before this point begins, that if perhaps it refers to another, I will allow myself, as Members could call for this to be on the agenda. Therefore, this discussion is in full compliance with the rules of procedure and rules. However, I do not think that they comply with the rules for exceeding the scope of this agenda item and any other issues which are completely out of the question. So, too, now, my fellow Partič, I ask you to abide by these rules. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u94	I will answer my colleague Jerovšek, in some way explain my discussion. I absolutely had no intention of seeing in the performance of a fellow Jerovska literary competitor, nor in my dreams did I want to degrade his debates and I think he is in principle right when he says it is good to talk about it. So let me explain what I was thinking. It seemed appropriate to me, Mr President, and I expected that you would have reacted earlier, that in that discussion, what President Drnovšek said, who is working from behind - and this was indeed in the newspapers, it was said, but not in this regard - and it seemed right to me that you had intervened and said that your colleague was moving away from the agenda. This is not the first time today that all colleagues know that, in fact, the problems of the Presidents who hold the meetings with Mr Jerovsk are common, in the way in which someone imagines what the subject is, and how those who are sitting there imagine that this is no longer the subject. Here I wanted to cut off the fact that confabulation means that some of the points in the story are true, so that's the story. But when a person is missing in the middle of the day, he decides things that are extremely subjective -- that's confabulation. And I was going to say that on some accurate data, Jože dear, you've got some other connections that are legitimate, but it's not necessarily that we all have to listen to this, and I think it's good that sometimes some working president does. That's all I had in mind. I said I turned to you friendlyly, believe me, I didn't want to degrade your discussion, but this crazy ability of yours, how you combine, what's between us in LDS, I'm sure there's three informers here, because I never know half of these things, or you're our deep-rooted sympathizer, that you're so familiar. It was only my discussion that I understood you, Mr President, that you should warn me that he might be moving away from things, and I will not speak in this regard again. I also apologize if you have been hurt; I meant that you are just a storyteller on some of the facts, in particular with regard to LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u95	Good. I propose that this controversy be terminated and that we return exclusively and strictly to the President's proposal. Does anyone else want a word about this point? A representative of the office? [[Nobody.]] So I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u96	I propose or require, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a half-hour rest for consultation in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u97	Half an hour?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u98	Half an hour, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u99	We'll continue the meeting at 4:40 p.m. I grant half leave at the request of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u100	At 4:40 p.m., a break will expire which we gave at the request of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. I'll ask the representative if he wants a word. Then we will proceed to the vote after being present. 16.41. The time for recess, which we set out at the request of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, has expired. I invite all Members and Members to return to the large debate room. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. I see that there are not two parliamentary groups yet, so I ask the secretaries of both groups of Members to remind Members and Members that the time for recess has passed. We're picking up the presence in the hall! Colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. I'm going to see the presence in the hall! Please press the quorum key. We're in the middle of finding out who's in the hall. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. Before voting, I will ask the representative, the leader of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, whether he wishes to inform the assembly of the outcome of the consultation? [[They don't want to.]] We can therefore move on to a vote notice. In accordance with Article 87 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the assembly on the election of a candidate as a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia shall vote in secret. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret ballot shall be held by the President-in-Office by the Secretary-General of the State Assembly and by the four Members elected on a proposal from the President. These are my colleagues Moge, Kelemina, Yuri and Levich. I propose that these four colleagues, together with me, vote in secret, debate and decision-making. Can we vote? [[Yeah.]] We are voting on a proposal for members of the Commission who are holding secret ballots. Please identify yourself. 61 present. 55 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, the Member shall be given a vote in such a way that each Member shall come to the table of the President and shall state his name and surname. The Member who will assist in the exercise of the vote shall deliver to each vote and the Secretary-General shall indicate on behalf and surname of the Member in the list that the vote has been delivered to him. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot that is not completed in accordance with the instructions referred to above shall be invalid. In accordance with Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the candidate will be elected to the post of Constitutional Court if the majority of all Members vote, that is 46, or more. We will vote in the Chamber. The Members and Members will place the completed ballot in the ballot box, which is at the table next to the voting booths. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, we are moving on to a secret vote. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. We'll start the vote at exactly 5 p.m. May I have your attention, please? The vote will take up to 5 p.m. and 15 minutes. However, we will continue the meeting at 5 p.m. and 30 minutes. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u101	Please come to the hall. I would like to inform you of the outcome of the vote on the election of a Constitutional Court Judge. We will first determine the presence, so your participation in the hall is inevitable. Please take your seats. I'll be there as soon as the time is 17.31. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 67 colleagues and colleagues present; the National Assembly is closed and may decide. Allow me to introduce you to the minutes on the finding of a vote on the election of a Constitutional Court Judge. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The vote was held on 26 March 2002 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 76 ballots were distributed, 76 ballots were delivered and 2 votes were invalid and 74 were valid. "For" was voted by 57 Members, against 17 Members. On the basis of this outcome, Mrs Mag was elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Maria Krisper Kramberger. [[Let's hear it.]] I'm asking the judge to swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u102	I swear that I will judge in accordance with the Constitution and the law and with my conscience and strive with all my power for constitutionality and legality and for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Maybe another word. Thank you to all those who voted for me, and thank you also for all the concerns I have heard; I will take them into account. I wish you a further success. Thanks again. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u103	We therefore congratulate the newly elected judges, and we wish them all the best in performing an important function. The Constitutional Court shall commence its functions on 25 May 2002. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY [[Please prepare the material for her]] This is the European Commission’s report on the progress made by the Republic of Slovenia in its inclusion in the European Union in the summer of 2001. The report was addressed by the Commission on European Affairs, which is a competent working body, and I ask the President, my colleague Peterlet, to make an introduction to this point. I also welcome a number of government delegations and thank them for their seriousness in processing this point. Of course I'm asking for peace in the hall! Comrade Peterle, please wait one second for the hall to calm down. Please, if the government takes their seats. Thank you very much. Now I ask the President of the Commission of the National Assembly on European Affairs, colleague Loizet Peterlet, to introduce us into a report which his Commission has also addressed. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I am pleased that such a strong government background has been established here, which will certainly help us in today's debate and decision-making. I am confident, my fellow Members and colleagues, that we are getting close to the conclusion of our European final, in which there are no doubt still challenging tasks ahead of us, difficult exams in which the word "implementation" will certainly be a central concept. I am pleased, not only that the European theme is part of political consensus, but I would say that there is a fundamental political consensus on our key political objectives in Slovenia and that although there has been a change in the political structure, I am also thinking here of new parties that were not once signatories to the signed document on the participation of most parliamentary parties in our integration into the European Union, yet this fundamental consensus remains. Before I go to a more specific consideration of the report, which, of course, I will not go into detail, assuming that you have all read it carefully, as well as what our working bodies have said, I would like to say a few words about the situation in which I think Slovenia is in this time. This is a situation that is far different from the situation at the time of the debate on the European Commission's last progress report. The key novelty is that, on the one hand, we are still negotiating with our partners in the European Union on some very difficult chapters, but at the same time, we have been, we could say, for the first time, invited by someone in history to participate as sovereign partners in the debate on the future of Europe, which is taking place at the convention on the future of Europe. This Convention discusses what Europe should look like inside an enlarged structure and what role it should play in the future in the global political game of the world. I refer to this fact, not because Parliament has two members in this Convention, Slovenia has all three, like others, but because of some fundamental emphasis they have put on the work of the Convention. Indeed, it is an emphasis on the integration of citizens, a particular emphasis on civil society and it is quite clear that the concepts of a future Europe are very different: a Europe of nations, a Europe of countries, a Europe of homelands, a Europe of regions, and so on that they all meet on a common nominee called a citizen of Europe in one or more of its countries. And this citizen will have to ratify documents in the current and future Member States and, of course, the candidate countries will decide at a referendum or referendums. Let's hope or count that positive. I think it is right to draw attention to this aspect or to this fact, because the national assembly and the government are not the only players in our European game, and I think we must also be aware of this today when we are talking about the European Commission's report on our progress towards the European Union. I have the impression, Mr President, that I am disturbing some with my performance, and I am going to stop a little.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u105	I have asked many times today, the hall is full, which is good at this important point, but I ask for peace, of course. There's a noise coming up fast, if there's one more. May I have your attention, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u106	I would also like, when I speak of the National Assembly, to point out that it is reasonable or also necessary for our debate to go beyond the frameworks with which this national assembly deals as a legislative part of our authority. This is the whole matter, this is our relationship with the government, this is our relationship with those who have elected us, and I think it is more than important and useful that we also consider this report of the European Commission in plenary. It's the fourth report. Hopefully, for the last time, there'll be only one more. This is a report that has been viewed as positive in the working bodies of the National Assembly by the government. This report is the best so far, the most positive are the Slovenian efforts and some of the criticisms that have been or have been known so far do not appear or repeat. I will not specifically point out these positive sentences about more progress, about important progress, about the word obvious and similar. That's a lot of words. A government representative is likely to speak in this spirit. I think it is important for us to stop at what remains a criticism in the European Commission's report, which uses the words "little progress", "too little progress" or "too little acceleration" and so on. These weaknesses or for our partners concern are facts, little progress, insufficient progress in regulating or reforming public administration, the issue of competitiveness, including the unfinished privatisation of the banking and insurance sector, persistent inflation, as it literally says in the report. It also mentions the country's overpowering impact on the economy and, of course, still lagging behind in the judiciary, although some progress has been recognised or found here. When the report on small progress speaks, it highlights here regional policy, free movement of persons, social policy, consumer protection, which I think is also worth special attention. I'm not going to go into detail on the subject of the land book. It's just a word. Some in Slovenia think that this is just a simple administrative matter. For our partners in the European Union, of course, this is a fundamental thing related to the exercise of property rights, and of course this is where we will also have to happen what we promised ourselves. This issue concerns a number of working bodies in the National Assembly. Most of the working bodies have their own chapter in this report. Whether it's economy, agriculture, social or some other area. I regret to note here that, in addition to the European Affairs Commission, not many working bodies have reached out to this opportunity to deal with the report, to read it carefully, to comment on it and also to adopt a position, but that they have only done so in addition to the European Affairs Commission, two other working bodies, the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. As before, the Commission has also considered or summarized these conclusions and proposed that they be adopted by the National Assembly in the plenary. Allow me to comment on some of these proposals in order to clarify what the Commission or the Committees have been thinking about. I am counting, of course, on the fact that these conclusions will also be open to the presidents of the working bodies on which they were first adopted. I do not think it is necessary to comment specifically on the first proposal of the conclusion that we have met and that it reflects the reality, but I feel the need to comment on the second decision. I would say that I think it's almost as good to hear what's going on in this decision as I think about those who have a cell here for other purposes. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on all competent institutions of the Republic of Slovenia to take appropriate measures to achieve the objective set, the internal readiness of the Republic of Slovenia to become a member of the European Union by the end of 2002." Once again, I stress that our success does not depend solely on the national assembly, on the adoption of more than 60 laws, nor does everything depend on the government, although it still has a number of sub-legislative acts before it and, of course, on the implementation of laws, it is also about institutions that we do not consider directly to the government, which have great powers or a great role. That is why the Commission has put emphasis on all institutions here, because it has to work the whole. Then I would also point out that this year's report will be prepared by the European Commission a little earlier and that the Slovenian side will prepare its own view or version of the report in June. It is said that, as far as this aspect of the business is concerned, it is very important that we do as much as possible in the first half of the year, so that we can add this to this draft report as a new achievement. I would like to say that the game is still taking place, even though differences between Member States may lead to concessions to one or the other Member States, but our work will have to be carried out in accordance with the instruments adopted, with the promises that have been made to the end. In Brussels, it is said that it would not be good for members to set up their own carpools in the final; I do not think that it is necessary for the assembly to explain what a goal in this spirit could mean. Then I would like to comment on the third proposal for a decision. Here we say that the National Assembly will continue to give priority to the treatment of European laws, as it has now done for several years. In doing so, it expects the Government to submit the draft laws to the Assembly in accordance with the deadlines provided for in the 2002 working programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to ensure their compliance with the European Union acquis. Why are there two highlights here? Because we can have a priority order, we can be very careful, but we can all be in great trouble together if the bill proposals do not come in line with the dynamics envisaged. And it would not be a good policy of time distress, in particular not because of this, but because this is the second part of the decision, because in these years the National Assembly has not been able to set up such an expert team to independently, sovereignly verify whether the government has really used or indeed provided in all dimensions of the law to comply with the European Union law. We have this purpose, but this year or the final, we still have less professional support in Parliament because there are simply not enough people than we had in a year or two before. I will also say this on purpose because some procedures have also been delayed for a very long time in order to strengthen their staff. And now there's a convention, and we've got more and more assignments, and people aren't enough. It takes a lot of attention here. Then the proposal for a decision under number 4. Here we propose that the government speed up public administration reform, establish the necessary institutions for the implementation of the acquis and ensure adequate administrative competence. It is not just about getting a marriage, one or the other, or more laws, but it is about accelerating the reform itself. It is not only about reforming what we have, but also about adding new institutions that also need some start-up, some start-up. When all of this is set up, those there must be adequately trained administratively. This is what the partners in the European Union strongly remind us of. Since some reforms have begun with delays, I think it is right to draw attention to this difficult matter by the National Assembly in the manner proposed. The fifth decision calls on the Government to prepare the Republic of Slovenia for entry into the European Union, which will ensure the full use of available resources within the framework of European policies and funds. This decision also seems to me to be highly justified. We have now used a lot of hard words to criticise or reject the unacceptable financial framework offered by the European Commission, and so have many others. If we fight there so that the financial frameworks are better, we must not allow criticism on our part to fail to make use of all that the European Union itself is offering or will offer. And that can happen, as some people know, if the programs are not good or ready in time. For us, development programmes have now become much more important in areas where there is a development gap or large differences, than in dealing with this time with regionalisation, where representatives from Brussels have said that our internal issue is, above all, an internal issue and that Brussels will provide resources for a particular type of development problem, no matter how many regions we set ourselves here or how much we decide. Many candidate countries have not been able to make full use of all funds so far. Neither do we, I don't know if we were exactly 100%, but we were undoubtedly, so we hear, the best at that. This excellence, if I say so, would be good to add to the fact that we take advantage of everything that is available We have a lot of examples between the current members of the European Union, who were able to do so well and did not do anything other than take advantage of 100%. Then it is a very interesting decision of the 6th, which may not seem special to anyone, but this proposal says that the Government should prepare a presentation of the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia under the conditions of membership in the European Union and present it to the National Assembly by the end of 2002. This decision is linked to what we listen to in our sent offices [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u107	Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u108	When people ask us what it will look like from day D ahead, what Slovenia will look like when it starts to work again, if I remember now the most reverberating concept, when the quotas will start to work, how many litres in Styria, how many in Primorsk, how much in Dolenjska, how much ha subsidies this or those cultures in Gorenjska and so on. [[...]] In short, people are asking us how it's going to work. I think it is right for them to know in advance that we will not be faced with this topic until the day of the formal entry itself. I think that this conclusion is certainly worth the attention and, above all, the support. Then I would like to comment only on the seventh conclusion that you have in your supplementary report as the first. This is a decision on regional policy proposed by the original Economic Committee. This means the concreteisation of one of the conclusions I have read before. Here we propose that the National Assembly call on the government to accelerate the preparation and adoption of regional development programmes and projects, of course also ensuring regionalisation, better coordination between ministries or between national and regional levels and create the conditions for the absorption of Structural and Cohesion Funds. I think this case is, I'd say, very important. Other comments would also be worth commenting on, but I am counting on a lot of debate not to be done. The conclusions are clear. Then there are some conclusions on the report on the status of further activities in the area of regional development. Thus, this is already the third conclusion on this subject, which shows its sensitivity in public debates. Now we want the government to report on this situation and activities. The three conclusions, however, relate to agriculture, one on the proposal that the government hasten with measures and regulations on this own structure in order to increase the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture. However, this is a very specific matter, which may not be due to such concreteness, because it is of a highly enforceable nature, to the National Assembly itself, but the Committee on Agriculture considered that the Ministry of Agriculture should be called upon or proposed to take urgent measures to obtain accreditation from the Slovenian Agency for Agricultural Markets. Then, of course, it is the last decision in this area that proposes to the government to obtain a comprehensive agricultural analysis within two months. I would also like to say, of course, at these conclusions, that there have been many changes since we received the report, and so far, that there have been new legislations, new regulations and more. So perhaps my comment in what area is lagging behind the reality. If that is the case, I will actually be happy, because that means that in the meantime it has also been done. With this initial implementation, I conclude on the assumption that the presidents of other working bodies will deepen the subject on which they have proposed specific conclusions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u109	This will be possible for the presidents of interested working bodies to do so in the general debate. I now invite the Minister responsible for European affairs to clarify the Government's position on the regular report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u110	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I'd try to be as short as possible. The progress report is, however, a material adopted on 13 November 2001. From here we are moving forward, so I will try to illuminate in particular what is happening this year or the things that are waiting for us this year so that we can finish our work well. As Mr Peterle has already said, in essence the progress report for Slovenia has been good, the best ever. That's a fact. The progress report is, in fact, a unit of three components that consisted of a full regular report, the other two were the enlargement strategy and the revision of the Accession Partnership. In particular, the progress report, which has so far been quite in-depth, would not have gone down, but would have added to the enlargement strategy a few elements that I think are extremely important because they have a strong impact on our work and on life, especially in this year and in years to come. As regards the principles of the enlargement process, this enlargement strategy has agreed that they exist as they have been so far. In short, they are based on the so-called 2000 Agenda, the financial perspective or, if you like, the budget adopted by the European Union in 1999 for 2000-2006; the Nice framework for institutional reforms; and, thirdly, the negotiations should continue on the basis of the existing legal order by applying the principles of differentiation, which is what we want in the end. In practice, this is sometimes difficult to reach, but it is one of the basic principles that is also present in their documents. It seems extremely important to me that it has been particularly exposed that discussions on the reform of common policies should not jeopardise or slow down the enlargement process. The fact is that there are actually two negotiating processes in the European Union today at the same time. One is the process of negotiating candidates, where we are discussing the enlargement process and how we are actually going to enter the European Union as a new Member, while the other is the negotiations that are taking place between the members of the European Union, in particular the possible changes or the direction of changes in those policies, which are, above all, crucial from a financial point of view. This is, on the one hand, a common agricultural policy and, on the other hand, a regional policy or, more precisely, a structural and cohesion policy in the European Union. But what is, in my view, a key issue and actually an internal one that has a significant impact on events, is that time has become, in some ways, an exogenous variable. In Laekn, for the first time, it was clear in the conclusions, later, on the basis of what was announced in this enlargement strategy, that the European Union was determined to conclude negotiations with the best-prepared candidates by the end of 2002, so that they could become members of the European Union in 2004. So, nothing is in hope anymore, nothing is the goal anymore, but it is the determination to do so In the negotiations we are now talking more or less about the cut of money, the cut of money for 2004, 2005 and 2006. That is why, as I said, time after my belief is a variable day, and you will no longer hear much of the evidence or very little of the kind of things that were said two years ago to decide, we are doing things that we don't even know about because we don't even know if we're actually going to be members of the European Union, let alone know when we're going to be members of the European Union. Now we can be sure that we will become members of the European Union, unless we wish otherwise ourselves, and we can be sure that this will happen soon. Allow me to add to this that particular emphasis in this report has also been given to the public opinion, both within the European Union and in the candidates. The trends here are different. In the Member States of the European Union, support for enlargement is increasing, while in the candidate countries, support for enlargement is declining. I think trends on both sides are a few expectations. However, I think that we are approaching the lowest point, from which the points have in fact slowly started to show in a direction that will be acceptable to both members and candidates. How was 2002? The year 2002 will indeed be crucial for Slovenia and for all candidates who want to join the European Union in the first round of enlargement. You've probably heard this sentence that this year will be crucial, here repeatedly, but I think that's the last time you hear that this year will be crucial. Why is this year going to be crucial? Because, as Mr Peterle has already said, the European Commission will probably, at least, expect the latest progress report. This report is to be submitted to the European Council, which will meet in Brussels on 24 and 25 October. The Commission will therefore have to adopt the report on 16 October, which is approximately one month earlier. On the basis of this report, the members will then decide which candidates are the ones to enter the first round. In short, the end of this year is decided on which members will enter the first round. It is worth noting that, while it has already been mentioned in Laekn, it is expected that up to ten candidates will enter, and also, for the first time, the candidates' names have been listed, including Slovenia, which is supposed to enter, but none of the candidates has assured them that they will enter. It was stated that there exist that these are on their way right now to meet this, but there is no assurance. Therefore, there is certainly no time to sleep this year, even regardless of the report and regardless of all the positive findings I have made earlier. In accordance with this timetable, Slovenia will have to submit its regular report by 14 June at the latest, and in the period from 3 to 10 September, we will have final meetings in Brussels, where we will, together with the Commission and with representatives of other candidate countries, provide the latest information on the basis of which achievements can be transmitted there by 15 September in the current year. In short, September 15th is the last date for any communication to the European Union. As in previous years, the Commission will only take into account the legislation actually adopted, and I am convinced that, in view of everything that is said, it is worth doing again and again this year and further to do so, if it is in our power, both of us and of you, and that we are actually trying to make this last effort that will enable us to become a true member that will enter the European Union with our heads raised. The opportunity is great and the responsibility, of course. The first look will be made by the Commission in April. Progress will be possible to report by April 17 when it prepares a so-called monitoring, or table, report. This will also be presented at the Sevilla Summit in June 2002. At this point, we can find that Slovenia has adopted only 15 laws since last year's regular report, which will be able to be included in the report. In line with this year's programme, the adoption of a total of 75 laws, as far as possible at the time of the submission of the regular report, should be by the end of the year, but of course what will be taken into account in this Communication, are those dates I mentioned earlier. Therefore, the last reporting date is 15 September. It is therefore so important to accelerate the adoption of laws until the submission of the Slovenian report in mid-June. Above all, it is important that by the end of May the National Assembly actually adopt a package of public administration reform laws containing four basic laws that are ready for second reading. In Slovenia, we adopted about 63% of all regulations by Wednesday March. I don't like to use these numbers because they usually don't tell the exact situation, because most of the tougher marriages have been lovingly adopted. And in most areas we already have a situation that is already fully in line with the acquis of the European Union. But there are some areas where this is still necessary. These are areas where the rule of law is most demanding or most extensive. You already know them because they have already been listed many times, especially agriculture, transport, the environment, and partly laws on the free movement of persons. In this report, the European Commission will pay particular attention to the actual implementation of the legal order adopted. To this end, in line with last year's enlargement strategy, and in cooperation with the candidates for each of them, it has drawn up a so-called action plan. We have aligned this week with the European Union, so that we see it the same way, and it does not actually bring anything new, but only a summary of what relates mainly to implementation and institutions. In institutions for a short period of time. Five more institutions need to be established, and some need to be strengthened. As you probably followed in the media, last week the government adopted a series of conclusions to enable these commitments to be implemented. As we know that the fiscal constraints are serious and given that the ministries have assessed that they need about 450 people to enable key institutions to be able and to ensure the proper implementation of the acquis, we have proposed the duality of these steps. In the first phase, it was only accepted to hire 14 new employees in those institutions where we are convinced that redistribution cannot achieve this. But we've suggested that everything happens in two stages. So to try to identify within the state administration all the excessive workers that exist and to try to mate with those that we need. This is also the first attempt to gradually move gradually into systematic monitoring and thus directing the recruitment policy in general in the state administration. As far as other activities are concerned, and I conclude with that. This is a review of the consistency or continuation of screenings. Two of these assignments are waiting for us this year. One will be in the coming days, the other in July. This is for the growth of the acquis of the European Union. We are working hard on technical adjustments to the acquis, which means that already accession treaties have started. These are being prepared right now. Thus, in December, we received lists of so-called technical adaptations for 16 working groups. How difficult this work is, and I am just illustrating to you that, before the inclusion of the most demanding chapters, for example agriculture, 313 pages of precisely technically adapted material have been required so far, which will of course be part of the common contracts we are preparing. State programme for the adoption of the acquis of the European Union by the end of 2002. We are planning to complement it, which is expected to be completed in April and will contain, in particular, the tasks arising from the new acquis adopted by the European Union. The evaluations show that the European Union's acquis is increasing annually by about 5,000 pages of the new official list, which needs to be reviewed precisely by the ministries and determined whether we are already in line or not and what steps still to be taken. The European Commission does not, however, require a new state programme from candidates this year, since it foresees that its role will be largely taken up by the so-called Action Plan. However, we note that the State programme is also an appropriate instrument for internal organisation of work, which would be worth preserving after entry into the European Union. The meetings of the bodies established under the European Association Agreement shall be held normally. The Association Committee was held on 15 February, we have a Council meeting in April. Negotiations are under way. The most difficult part of the negotiations is the one we've entered. Many of the following steps, or steps, are yet to be taken. In the coming days, we expect individual candidate countries to have negotiating points, both for agriculture and for regional policy, and ultimately for the budget; this will, of course, still be the Commission's temporary starting point. At the end of June, we expect such reports from Member States. We hope that Spain will succeed in reaching these consensuss by the time their presidency is concluded. In short, negotiations are essentially at the most difficult stage. This year you will often hear words such as financial plan and financial problems, tides, outflows. We know something - we know that when Slovenia joins the European Union, in the years currently under negotiation, 2004, 2005 and 2006, it will be a net recipient of financial resources; however, it is still impossible to say at this point. Notwithstanding all that we are not likely to enter under exactly the same conditions, I would now appeal to all of us to think in the context of the European Union and its enlargement beyond the negotiations themselves and the problems we will face this year. The European Union is more why its enlargement is taking place, of course, is another issue. Finally, I might just add that actually the problem is that we are moving to a period when the time is an exogenous variable, when we have to adjust our actions to something that is clearly time-bound, and when we have to move from a period when we have in some way adopted the policy of the European Union which was ahead of us, in short, the European acquis, to a time when we are becoming co-creators of this policy. This period when we become co-creators of European policy will be the most difficult for Slovenia in relation to the European Union and to membership in the European Union, I am sure of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Minister. Now I'm going to break this agenda. Before that, I should be pleased to inform you, colleagues and colleagues, not only that the National Assembly, which was involved in the preparation of the Forum, is just before the Forum on the Future of Europe is set up at the end of the month, but also by visiting the Republic of Slovenia Pat Cox, which is the President of the European Parliament, and will also take place in front of the National Assembly. So for today, we interrupt this point. Tomorrow we will continue the meeting of the National Assembly at 10 a.m., with the discussion of the 27th point and the 19th point, if the competent working bodies today are to make proposals. Then we'll continue with the broken 2nd and 10th and 22nd. I should also say that today the representatives of all the parliamentary groups have consulted on the possibility of the State Assembly working on Friday. The compromise proposal is to work between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. This procedural proposal will be decided tomorrow at 10 a.m. at the beginning of the meeting. Thank you very much.
