ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues! It's two minutes later. I invite everyone to come to the National Assembly Hall. We will continue with the adjourned 14th extraordinary session. Please come to the hall. I suggest we don't waste much time. Look, one day we're older, and we're still on the same agenda. I therefore propose that we take this shocking fact into account and that we are more vigilant in our decisions. The SDS delegation took a break. Would anyone like a word of explanation? Colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! Welcome to the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Before I determine the presence in the Chamber, I would like to inform you of colleagues and colleagues who are detained. I'll have your attention first. May I have your attention in the hall, please? Colleagues and colleagues who will not be present: colleague of Montenegro, colleague of Delak, Malovra, colleague of Bevk from 3 p.m. on, colleague of Podobnik, colleague of Barovič from 4 p.m. on, for the beginning of the meeting apologized to colleague Kangler, colleagues of Germič, Kacin and Kopushar will be absent from 4 p.m., and colleagues of Kremžar also apologized to Švagan and Vukko for today. Now, please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. There are 51 Members and Members present; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I'm asking for peace in the hall! I think we'll all be easier to work with if it's a little less. Thank you very much. [[...]] I have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting, which I very much welcome. We will continue the meeting of the assembly with the consideration OF THE DISCONTINUED 2. Agenda items, this is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Composition of Agricultural Lands and the Lords of the Republic of Slovenia. Then we'll move on to item three and orderly. I would like to remind you that yesterday we suspended the session when the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members requested time for consultation in the parliamentary group. I ask the representative of the Group of Members whether he wishes to communicate the position of the Group of Members. Can we get to the vote? We are under Article 2 and reviewing the amendments tabled. We will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 2. Let's vote! We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 2. There are 56 present. Twenty-nine, twenty-one. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 21.]] It's hard. It's gonna be hard working in these situations. I know you're consulting on the content, but it's still not possible to do it out loud. Colleagues and colleagues! We decide on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 2. Let's vote! 52 present, 36 for, 10 versus. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Procedurally, colleague of grandkids. Before deciding on the amendment under order number 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u2	Mr. President! I must protest because I do not think most Members know what we have voted on now because you have interrupted a debate that was not concluded yesterday. It was not concluded because a representative of the Social Democrats proposed a break between a debate for which at least a few other debaters were present. I must say, I don't know what we just voted on. I don't think it was right of you to suddenly put to the vote things that no one has any idea who they are. And you also did not invite a representative of the Social Democrats who proposed a break. [[A voice from behind.]] I'm sorry if I missed that, but I don't think it was right that we just went to the vote without restoring where we left off yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u3	So, with extreme courtesy, I'm going to say that this wasn't the only thing you missed out on. I have made it clear that the debate was concluded yesterday. After the discussion, the representative of the Social Democratic Party, the parliamentary group, the party in the national assembly, took a break. When we found attendance in the hall, I asked the representative if they wanted a word, and I got an answer from them that they didn't want that word. I have warned that we are moving on to a decision on the three successive amendments to Article 2 and have done so. The review is before you and him, and we decide according to it. That's how I reject your contract. We'll decide [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Excuse me? Isn't there a replica here, unless you have another procedural procedure? [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u4	I propose, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party, a half-hour recess to discuss the re-voting of the College.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u5	There is no possibility of re-voting. Now, because I can see that this is fun for you, my esteemed colleague, I must tell you this is not appropriate. The procedure here is very clear and transparent. And if we listened a little bit more, we could also see how the decision is made. I think that these are too serious things to become now without the need to target these criticisms. If you want half an hour off, I'll give it to you, but not with an explanation. We're in the decision-making phase now. When we decide on the third amendment, you can take the next debate - once again raise your hand. [[...]] Please, my grandson.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u6	I have made a mistake and I propose to the National Assembly that we decide again on the first two votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u7	That's not possible. That's not possible. You know this, of course, that a precedent in such practice would mean that any state assembly can always repeat the votes that have already been carried out. I propose that we go to the vote on the third amendment to Article 2. Please let us vote. Comrade Wolf. Excuse me. You want another word. He's a colleague of grandkids. Would you like another word? Please, if this is a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u8	Yes, I propose procedurally that the National Assembly decide on my proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u9	Therefore, to vote on all the votes in this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u10	Not all of them. Just the first two of us, because we weren't, I think you've let us down here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u11	No, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u12	I'm protesting, protesting against this way of conducting a session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u13	You can do this. I will also put my manner of chairing the meeting to a vote. Please, we're taking laws. And there can be no suspicion here that there is a flaw in the decision-making process. She's not here. Your comments were inappropriate. I can't put them to the vote. Someone wanted a word here. Procedural? No, no, no. Please. My friend Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u14	Mr President, I would just, of course, procedurally like to conclude first that there is no basis for what Mr Vnučec proposes, and I suggest that we continue as it has been started. At the same time, I take advantage of this opportunity to protest against Mr Vnučec's way of discussing the fact that Members did not know what we were voting on. Apparently, he didn't know what he was voting on, and he doesn't know the rules of procedure, and now we're wasting our time with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u15	Please proceed. We will decide on the amendment under order number 3 to Article 2. We're making a decision. Please. Explanation, interrupt the vote. Please, Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against this amendment of the government. Indeed, we voted in the first vote on a solution where the government will no longer have anything to distribute. The amendment speaks: the government decides to allocate revenue over expenditure, taking into account the financial plan adopted and the work programme of the Fund. With the first solution, where we start to manage the fund in any way, we have distributed all the revenues by taking one third to the municipalities, but with the other part the fund should be dealt with, as it will be, with only the functioning of the fund, for all the other things, even for the Fund's work programme, of course, no more funds. And this amendment is pointless and I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u17	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to the vote. We're deciding on an amendment under the orderly pardon. [[...]] I'll just be a second. [[...]] We decide on the amendment under order number three. Please. 61 present, 29 to 26. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 26.]] I am opening a debate on the amendments, two to three have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number one to Article 3. We're voting. 62 in attendance, 53 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment under order number one has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 66 in attendance, 56 in, 2 in. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. I am opening the debate on the amendments tabled to Article 4, eight amendments have been tabled. The third amendment to Article 4 is also accompanied by an amendment proposed by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. This is an amendment to the amendment to Article 4 of the United Nations Group of Members. This one's not in check, it's on the bench. Who wants a full word on the amendment to the amendments and on the amendments to Article 4? [[He doesn't want to.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. I ask for needed peace in the hall, or we will again witness to the position that someone cannot listen collectively to the decision-making procedure. We will decide on the amendment under order number one to Article 4. We're voting. If this is accepted, everyone else is irrelevant. There's 71, 20 for, 45 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment has not been adopted, so the other amendments are still subject to consideration. We will decide on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 4. If accepted, the amendment under order number 3 and the amendment to the amendment are irrelevant. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 70 present, 48 for, 20 versus. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are on page 3 of the review, under order number 4, because the amendment under number 3 has become irrelevant. We're at amendment number four, page three. We are voting on the amendment under order number 4. I ask for peace and attention in the hall. 65 present, 62 in, one in. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number 5. We're voting. Excuse me? I'm calling off the vote. Voice explanation, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u18	Here's the essence of the story that happened yesterday. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u19	Wait a minute! I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please, Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u20	I will vote against it, of course. Here's the point of the stories that happened all afternoon. In fact, whether the concessionaires so far have the right to manage forests further or not, or what, once the concession relationship has expired. And, of course, there is a solution here that at any time, even after 20 years when the concession relationship expires, they still have a priority right. I will compare with the construction of highways, where we put 10 billion into the tender, 10 operators will apply, but those who are now doing the most, say, SCT, without regard to the offers offered by others. I think the solution is unacceptable, and I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The next person who wants to explain his vote is colleague Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much. So, the essence of what we discussed yesterday was, of course, accepted with the amendment under order number 2. With this amendment, when you decided most of the time and accepted it, a 10-year period was deleted and changed back to a 20-year-old. However, in this amendment, proposed by the United List, the proposal is that when these concessions are completed in 2013, the concessionaires still have a priority right. So this is unacceptable and we will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much. A fellow Rockhead. Can you turn it off, Comrade Sok? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. You've already told the predecessors. Indeed, it is a typical amendment that advocates the interest of a certain lobby in that country and which prevents the establishment of a normal competition beyond that period. I think that this amendment is actually driven by the logic of the market economy; I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u25	Does anyone else want to explain their voice? [[He does.]] Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u26	I will vote against this amendment myself, because I believe that even if I have been voted against, it is unconstitutional. This is contradicted by the principles of our system, which we have decided upon, which is also guaranteed by the Constitution. However, the adoption of this Article in the long term has provided funding to a particular party in order for certain economic operators to hold back the unlawful benefits for an unjustified period. For this reason, I think it is even incorrect that this article is forceful and does not withdraw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. My friend Webber. Then the representative of the secretariat wants to speak as well. Comrade Weber, you have the floor to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment because such a solution is already in the existing law. So it's a solution that's already in force, it's already in the existing law. The abolition of the right acquired is unconstitutional and, if this amendment is not voted out, of course, it will also be possible to initiate new constitutional disputes. What we are proposing is already in law, and because of this procedure, which has been in place since 1997, we are only trying to preserve what is already in the basic law. It's nothing new, and it's nothing constitutionally controversial. In fact, if this amendment is not adopted, there will be open pathways for new constitutional disputes. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u29	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I repeat: it is an explanation of voice, not of controversy. The views have already been discussed. Please, you have the floor. Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Yeah, I'll explain my voice. I will vote against such regulation. Why? Because it says "at least 20 years" in previous articles. This means that now those who enter into concessions will be able to conclude them for 100, 200, 500 or 1000 years, because it is a crazy provision. And by doing so, we will give him the opportunity to have priority after the end of this twenty-year period. Excuse me! This means the re-implementation of feudality in Slovenia. Obviously, then, there will have to be another way to get to the amended law. That's outrageous. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u31	Before I give my word, I'll ask for peace in the hall again. Before that, I won't say a word. Please, you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u32	Thank you. I will also vote against it, in particular because it is clear that the amendment's proposal wants to give effect to the right of priority in the re-application of the concession after the expiry of the contract. We have already talked a lot about how long-term concessions are disputed and any priority that we could possibly impose on the current concessionaires by applying this amendment would be in sharp contrast to all that we have said. At the same time, it seems to me that the basic text of the legislative proposal, at least in terms of the fact that concessions can also be awarded to farmers living in restricted areas of agricultural production, is also in line with our expectations and I think that it is also with the basic purpose of the fund to strengthen the economic power of farms in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their voice? I guess not. Then we can go to the vote. Colleagues and colleagues, we will vote on the amendment under order number five, which is on the third page of our review. We're voting on him. If this is accepted, then the amendment under order number six becomes irrelevant. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number five. I ask for peace in the hall, the vote is under way. 69 present, 14 in, 52 in. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 52.]] The amendment was not accepted. We decide on an amendment under order number six. We're voting. 59 in attendance, 37 in, 17 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 17.]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number seven. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under order number eight shall be immaterial. Now I always wait for a moment to see if anyone wants to explain their voice. [[Nobody.]] We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number seven. 66 present, 39 for, 22 versus. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 22.]] He was adopted. Eight is irrelevant, the amendment under order number eight is irrelevant. Let's go to page five of our review. Seven amendments are tabled under Article 5. I am opening a debate on the amendments tabled. Anybody want a word? I find no one wants a word, so I conclude the debate. I would like to point out that the amendment to the government's amendment has been amended. May I have your attention in the hall? The amendment under order number 1 has been amended. The applicant shall be the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. You've got the text of the supplement on the bench. He's not in the amendment review. We will vote on it. It was introduced on 13.2. this year. The National Assembly therefore knows which addition we will now vote on first. No reservations. Can we get to the vote? [[Yes, you can.]] If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under order number 2 shall be immaterial. We're going to vote now. We are voting on the amendment under order number one. 67 present, 18 for, 44 versus. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 5. Let's vote! Please, please, please, please, please, 64 present, 26 to 26 versus. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 26.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. We are voting on an amendment to the government's amendment. This is an amendment under order number three. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under order number 4 shall be immaterial. Excuse me. I'm warning you, the amendment has been withdrawn. We are moving on to an amendment decision under order number 4. Let's vote! 68 present, 52 in, 9 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 5. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments under order number 6 of 7 are irrelevant. Six has been removed. We are voting on the amendment under order number 5. Please! 66 present, 59 in, 3 in. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. In this sense, the amendments under order numbers 6 and 7 become irrelevant. The sixth one's already been removed. That's how we decided on the amendments tabled. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate mutual compliance. You want a word? Please. I'm asking for peace in the hall. You can switch in, ma'am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much. In view of the amendments adopted, I note that the text of Article 6 should be amended, as the Secretariat has already announced in its written additional opinion. Indeed, it is not a matter of any other sub-legislative act than that of the Minister in Article 4, as amended, or of a provision amending Article 17, paragraph 7, of the current law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u35	Good. Please, the proposer, the government to take this note into account by the secretariat to prepare a proposal for a harmonisation amendment. We'll decide about him when he's ready. Until then, I would have broken this point. Can the government tell us about when we can count on the coordinated amendment tabled? Approximately. Can we do it today? Can we do it today? Yes, you can! Okay, so until then, I'm breaking this agenda item as soon as the government prepares the harmonisation amendment, we could move on to a decision on it. You want a procedural proposal, colleague Jerovšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u36	Yes, the proposal is completely practical - and before we vote, even after the harmonisation, I would like to have a record of what we have adopted today. There was some confusion, and I don't even know if I voted against what I was discussing and taking part in a single amendment. For in this way, in relative haste it is difficult to define and therefore I propose that we have before us a copy of the previously adopted law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u37	We will ensure that the conditions for decision-making on the proposal are met, including that it is clear to all of us what we are ultimately deciding. The government should only prepare the harmonisation amendment as soon as possible. At the National Assembly, our services are to regulate other circumstances for decision-making. My colleague's grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to join this proposal, for the reason that I did at the outset - because what has been adopted so far is a living victory. And it's not your fault, I'm not going to say it's your fault, but I suggest that the government tells you, according to the writing, its position, what it thinks about this law, that we'll make a better decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u39	Thus, as it is said, when the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the continuation of the consideration of the previously suspended agenda item are met, the State Assembly will continue its work on the agenda. And now I'm moving on to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION ON PUBLIC TRAFFICS - A SHORT PROCEDURE. We'll wait for the government to join us. After the marathon treatment of the previous point, the government may not have been prepared for such a quick conclusion. We'll wait a moment for the government representatives. We can't wait very long for government representatives. Please, if, colleagues and colleagues, sit in their bench. If none of the Members and Members of Parliament would demand that there be government representatives present, we will begin the hearing without them. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. There are no government representatives yet, perhaps they will come forward later to discuss the law. For a moment, I have to stop the work of the National Assembly because there's too much unrest in it. I will do this in particular so that, later on, one of the Members and Members of Parliament will say that we have taken decisions in haste or in too much confusion. As long as there's no peace, we won't continue. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Does the president or representative want a word? Please, Comrade Gerencher, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since there are no government representatives, let me just remind you that this is a short procedure, it is a matter of harmonising the provisions of the Public Roads Act relating to the verification of transport licences with the European acquis, which should be harmonised by the end of last year. Slovenian legislation with the "acquis" found that the field of emergency transport was not fully harmonised. It is also necessary to harmonise the concept of emergency transport in this law with the concept established in the Road Transport Act. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment considered this amendment for the first time on 5 December last year and adopted a decision to support the reduced procedure. At the following 2nd meeting, i.e. 12.12., we re-examined and adopted two amendments after a short discussion, namely Article 2 and Article 3. Finally, the Committee decided to propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the law together with the amendments proposed by the Committee. However, the Committee did not define itself until the amendment of Mrs Zalokar Orazem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. I have not received written applications from my colleagues and colleagues, so I will limit any discussion later to five minutes. Does anyone want a word? No one wants a word, so I am concluding the general debate. Please take a preliminary review of the amendments to the bill prepared on 28 January this year. Please have two amendments before you, which were tabled by Comrade Trofenik; these are the amendments that we will decide on. We will first decide on the amendments to Article 1. In the review of the amendments, we have tabled amendments from the Group of Members and colleagues of Zalokar Orazem and two amendments from colleagues of Trofenik. Does anyone wish to speak on the amendments tabled to Article 1 and Article 1 in full? Yes, Comrade Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. The reduced process of amending the Law on Public Roads allows, in addition to what is followed by the applicant, also the correction of the uncontrolled situation concerning emergency transport. When the law in force was now passed, there were some other assumptions. And in order to better understand the philosophy of the current law, I would point to Article 10, which cannot be seen from the material that the current law on public roads provided that the State would provide the necessary funds both for the maintenance of state roads and for the regular maintenance of local roads. Of course not. One of the pressing problems is the emergency transport or damage caused by emergency transport. In particular, I propose in the first amendment that the word "public" be replaced by "public" in paragraph 2 of Article 51. Why? Indeed, the section on emergency transport is part of the chapter on state roads. Public roads, however, are local and state roads. At the time, the applicant - or when we accepted - was inconsistent, since in the same article 51 at the end he speaks at point 6 about public roads. In order to correct this inconsistencies, it is now an opportunity and it is necessary, so I propose that the word "public" be corrected at the second point, or replaced by "public". Why? If this is not done, it may be interpreted as meaning that a transport signal defining permitted axle loads and the like is only valid for nationals and that it is not possible to derive from this some consequences which are important for local roads. Following this, I propose a second amendment concerning the issue of emergency transport licences. I would like to warn you that the doctrine of marriage is indisputable when it comes to extraordinary transportation on state roads. However, as soon as it comes to extraordinary transport on state and local roads, and in the third form, when it comes to extraordinary transport alone or mainly on local roads, of course, practice has shown that such a legal solution is unsustainable because thousands of transports, extraordinary, occur according to the definition of emergency transports, but the Directorate does not issue any permits or are not under the control of these extraordinary transports. The result is the destruction of public property, which is state and local roads. The point of my amendment is to break down or break down three possible situations, once there is no dispute when it comes to extraordinary transport on state roads, that it is under the authority of the directorate; the second time it comes to extraordinary transport on local and state roads, that the central authority issuing the permit is the directorate, but cannot do so past local communities. There is always an open dilemma: consent or opinion. Since there is no agreement that is the only right solution, I propose a solution so that it is a preliminary opinion and that the conditions laid down by the local community or the competent authority should be taken into account. What's this all about? In practice, it happens that the Directorate allows extraordinary transport where it is not supposed to, through protected, for example, water protection belts and similar, accidents occur in these transports, the result of which is almost incomparable, because if the oil derivatives are being poured into the groundwater in the protected area, of course, it is very difficult or impossible to remedy this. The third option that this amendment brings when it comes exclusively to emergency transport on local roads must - and this is the only logical - be exclusively within the competence of the competent authority of the local community. I would like to point out that, from the point of view of national road standards, some transport may be normal, and from the point of view of standards, in particular axle loads, the same transport on the local road is exceptional, according to the applicable definition covered by the law. From this address, thousands and thousands of counterfeits are happening, "extraordinary transports" without any compensation, causing much damage. Let me finish. Like, or unlike some other amendments that wanted to solve this, I do not mention any compensation anywhere, because it makes sense to me, and in this part, I agree with the Government's explanation that compensation should fall under the applicable law, both for local roads and for state roads. It is true, however, that this does not happen in practice, although, I think, the law was passed in 1997 or 1998. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. A colleague of Zalokari's. Excuse me, Comrade Sok, first my apologies, then my colleague Zalokarev.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u44	Mr President, I propose that - yes, I see that, at this moment, a representative of the Ministry of Transport and Communications has arrived - because I believe that these two amendments tabled by Ambassador Trofenik are not as innocent as they seem at first sight. And I would, of course, like the Ministry to declare before deciding on these two amendments, or I would suggest that before we vote on this, we take a fifteen-minute break from our parliamentary group, New Slovenia. What's this all about? If I have correctly understood Mr Trofenik's explanation, it seems to me that this matter is a continuation of the debate on the livestock law, where certain Members have proposed deleting Article 10. I do not want this debate to be repeated in this amendment, but I would like to draw attention to the following. If we include all other public roads in this law in addition to the state, then, of course, parallel municipal roads are included here. Many municipal roads are built the way they were built, and it happens that, in the agricultural sector, farmers and other users of this road are burdened differently in certain time periods than are actually envisaged. To be concrete, in our case it is the transport of a sugar beet in autumn. During the previous period, farmers or farmers carried this pesos more or less with tractor trailers. Today, however, the factory offers service and directly from the field transports the pesa to the factory, successfully, it is said as it runs there processing, with trucks. And if we include something like this in this law, then I'm afraid that this truck ride in a lot of congregations will be banned. For this reason, I ask the National Assembly, as well as the Ministry of Transport and Communications, to identify this issue. It seems to me that it is not going so quickly to accept such decisive amendments as this, and that the Member, Mr Trofenik, should have tabled this amendment a little earlier. We do not adopt the law by means of a reduced procedure, I do not even know if he can put it in plenary. So, the committee has not discussed this, the government has not defined itself - I am not in favour of ad hoc voting on such important amendments as this. Thank you very much. So, I will propose before voting 15 minutes of recess on behalf of our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u45	I will also order those fifteen minutes as soon as the debate on the amendments to Article 1 is concluded. I would just like to remind you that the amendment has been tabled on a regular basis, so that it is not disputed in terms of the business procedure and, of course, it can and will show a vote. A colleague of the Zalokar-Arzam Flower, then a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to explain the amendment bearing number two, but at the same time to clarify that the amendment to Article 1 is withdrawn on behalf of the Group of Members. In this first amendment, which has been tabled: as a group of Members, of course, in our later consideration, we have found that, in the matter of emergency transport on state and municipal roads, it would still be reasonable not to burden the Directorate of Consent with an additional procedure to seek agreement at the municipal level. That is why I have prepared a new amendment, where I propose that the Directorate should inform the municipalities within the time limit set out in the preceding paragraph. I must say that at this moment, given the explanation and position of the government you have received, I strongly protest against the things that are written here. For, I must say, in practice, no one has ever informed road maintenance or municipalities of the passage of extraordinary transport through or through municipal roads. I think it's so arbitrary and, I'll say, an ignorant attitude towards local communities, and in that case, even to their property, enough. If the State is so because of certain interests [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u47	Colleague Zalokar, just a moment. You are being followed by a small conference, I think it is right that you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u48	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u49	No, no, it bothers the others. Certainly doesn't bother those at the conference.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u50	If a country with such great joy in recent years has reclassified so many roads to local roads because of its financial interests, this is its problem. We were faced with this, and suddenly we had to find significantly greater means of maintaining roads. It is, however, ignorant and unfair from the State that on these roads owned by the Domžale municipality, an extraordinary transport takes place without at least informing the local communities. I must also attach to what Comrade Trophynik has said that I do not know the case, although this law allows anyone to receive any compensation at the expense of these extraordinary transports. And, of course, I must say that in this case, if things don't work out properly here, it will be necessary to take other legal paths to exercise these interests of local communities, because I think that property in this country is somehow insured and no one can just take extraordinary transports on some roads that can destroy these roads, they can run across bridges that can't even transport them. And in this sense, I think that this amendment under number 2 is sufficiently adjusted to inform the municipalities that such extraordinary transport is taking place, that the municipality then has the opportunity to draw attention to the lack of roads or the difficulties that such extraordinary transport would cause. And, of course, I think that the article, which speaks of a relative proportion of the local community in such a case, has been completely corrected, given that this Regulation has never been implemented in practice and that no road operator, at least in the municipalities, has ever received any share due to emergency transport. In doing so, I stress that, of course, extraordinary transport can take place and is carried out exclusively on state roads, and in such a case, there will be no problem. However, I think that so ignorantly, past the local communities, their property cannot go, so I would suggest to Members and Members that the amendment under number 2, which is sufficiently adjusted and does not mean that procedures or obstacles to the direction are complicated, although I do not think that extraordinary transports are prepared overnight, but have a certain period of time when this process is being carried out and there is sufficient time for the local community to also be informed at this stage. Once again, I am withdrawing the amendment under number 1 of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u51	The amendment under order number 1 has therefore been withdrawn by the Group of Members. The Secretary of State has also been announced for the record. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members. The government has addressed the amendment tabled by Mrs Zalokar Orazem and does not support this amendment. While the government did not consider the amendment tabled by Mr Trofenik. However, I must say that the current legislation regulates this matter properly, as it points out that on the road protection issue we are talking about the problem of road protection, that when transport is carried out on municipal and state roads, the operator preparing a proposal for an emergency transport decision will inform the local community of this emergency transport. In accordance with the regulation adopted in 1999, however, it also provides, under Article 10, compensation for the emergency transport to road operators by way of extraordinary transport in proportion to the length of the transport route of the emergency road by public road operators. Literally read Article 10 of this Regulation. In practice, how does this matter take place? I have before me a permit for extraordinary transport in public roads, where it states that, one example of emergency transport, that 90 tolars will be deposited at the expense of the municipality of Ljubljana, because so much of the emergency transport took place in this case along the road that is in the administration of the Ljubljana municipality. What kind of money is involved in the current legislation, and how are things arranged? In fact, under the current legislation, this is not compensation for a damaged road due to exceptional transport, but this is a certain duty, which is comparable to those of the countries that handle these matters properly or in detail, namely Austria, Germany, Italy. So, from extraordinary transport, approximately 75 million are collected in the state budget. Of this, about 5% of such transports take place on local roads and are being evaluated, of course, this is an assessment, but the analysis can also make it possible to collect between 5 million and 10 million money at the annual level of this title, which belongs to municipalities and is also indicated. Here it indicated that these 90 tolars were directed to the city’s congregation. However, the municipalities have jurisdiction to regulate matters with their orders. We took a quick look, couldn't fix it, couldn't look at it. We have reviewed 88 municipal regulations that regulate these matters in the same way and also prescribe reimbursements for use or for extraordinary transport. Only four congregations of these 88 who did not have such matters arranged. This is said to be perhaps 5% of the municipalities that have not yet settled this matter and can properly regulate these matters within their respective competences and options. The amendment would only mean adding something that has already been regulated and that the law would have lost its structure in general cases, in general decisions, regulated how it is regulated on public roads and in other points of the law regulated how public roads are regulated and left to the municipalities that these matters remain roads, construction, maintenance, extraordinary transport, road protection and so on. The only exception is when transport is carried out on municipal and state roads at the same time, and this law provided that in this case this is regulated by the Directorate for Roads, but: by directing an appropriate share to the controller, in which case to the local community or the municipality. As it is said, the government does not support such amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Now we've got a few signed up for the word, then I'm going to order a fifteen-minute recess. First my colleague Sušnik, then my colleague Sok, my colleague Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support and also agree to vote on the amendment by my colleague Trofenik, because I am convinced that it is only so clear that it has an exceptional transport licence issued by municipal roads issued by a competent municipal authority, the only guarantee that extraordinary transport on municipal roads takes place in accordance with the purpose of a good master, if I say so, or with the aim of obtaining compensation for any damage that occurs on these roads. This is happening, and it is also happening that in the event of various traffic accidents, the police, without the consent of the local communities, are directing all traffic along certain roads without asking anyone or anyone willing to compensate for any damage. The amendment tabled by Mrs Zalokar Orazem Kvetka to let herself know is, I will say, quite empty, has no substance and is part of similar things that we have already described and that have already been discussed in this National Assembly. As a result, the notification does not mean anything, there is no guarantee of any impact on the implementation itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I would only like to ask the Secretary of State if he can explain the definition of emergency transport, so that it is more clear what extraordinary transport is and how it is meant to transport emergency transport in relation to municipal roads, which are also public roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u57	Comrade Trofenic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I'd try to replicate Comrade Sok first, and then I'd try to replicate the Secretary of State. In Article 82, which speaks of the management of municipal roads, the law makes it clear that the municipality adopts a decree on municipal roads in which it regulates the management, construction, maintenance and protection of municipal roads, supervision of municipal roads and categorises municipal roads no later than one year. Furthermore, the law states in the same Article: pending the adoption of the decision referred to in the preceding paragraph, to regulate the situation, etc. The provisions of this law relating to public roads shall apply mutatis mutandis. This is what the Secretary of State has said that the law is already in force in this respect. The problem is that the law in Article 51 has too little disintegrated the problem and that in practice there is a disorder, and neither the local communities nor the state act as good masters who must protect the property. And, of course, by definition - if I continue - Article 51 is considered to be an extraordinary transport of cargo which, together with the cargo and the vehicle, exceeds the requirements of the permitted axle load [[I'm not going to read it because you can read it yourself.]] . And this leads to fundamental problems - due to the too much axle load that is happening and should already be sanctioned by law, there is remarkable damage. However, these damages are not, of course, a burden on the state budget, as stated in Article 10 of the current law, which states: "The means to maintain state roads and to maintain local roads regularly are provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia." Now for practice. It really makes no sense if it is 90 tolars, if I have heard correctly - but I would like to ask whether the directorate or the ministry can show me any decision on emergency transport issued for northeastern Slovenia since the law and the minister's rules are in force; I would like to see that a few thousand such decisions should be issued each year. Because what my colleague said is happening, and the directorate doesn't even know about it, and not much else. As you know, in such an organisation of the Directorate, which has its employees, its staff, its exhibits, the premises of the executive organisations, it is, of course, the road companies that manage state roads, it is impossible to expect it to appear as a sober judge and protector of public interest - when I speak 'public', I speak in terms of state and local. And this amendment of mine doesn't even apply for compensation, because I know that these compensations for extraordinary transport are not in proportion to the damage that's coming. I know this very well, even a submarital act, which is why I did not point out anything, unlike a colleague who exposes damages. I agree with you, damages or taxes mean nothing. This is a prevention, because I do not think it is acceptable for a general opinion that any extraordinary transport should be allowed where it is unfavourable for the carrier, this could be illustrated by a whole bunch of cases. No, not all steamers for the nuclear power plant in Krskem, not all of the reservoirs for the Union or Laška brewery that went through Hungary and we drove them correctly on local roads, but not by state roads, that we avoided 90 degrees of rolling or removing some traffic lights, but we left a lot of local roads exposed, unprovoked, not talking about matters. Of course, I reject such instigation that there is a desire for some kind of agricultural burden or whatever. No, Mr Sok, the profits from the priced carriages of the beet are collected by the owners of the sugar factory, which, as you know, are in most foreigners. But I'm going to have all the costs that come with this. And of course the third option [[_Piss]] - I will immediately finish, I apologize - the third option, when it comes exclusively to transport along the local road, cannot be different from that of the local community. I warn you, given the intense pressure, some transportation is normal for the state road, but for the locals, it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u59	I have to insist on the rules that apply for five minutes each. Comrade Sok, you wanted an explanation from the Secretary of State. You want to hear the explanation first and then get your word back? There's a colleague of Zalokar's behind you. Please. You have the floor as Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So this is also the subject of the Emergency Shipping Reimbursement Regulation. Mr Trofenik has already said 1st point when it comes to preventing a permissible or axle load. Of course, there are other points that say that it must not exceed the total mass and that it is an emergency transport if it exceeds the dimensions of width, height, length. This depends, of course, on the state of the infrastructure, the height of the overpasses, the width of the roads, the radio curves and so on. So, exceptional transport, if it can otherwise be defined domestically, is transport by road, something that is outside normal conditions, but by assessing whether the infrastructure is still capable of accepting it without harm, of course, under certain conditions. And then the operator prescribes these conditions. As an example, let me say exactly agricultural activity. Combustions, for example, are a typical example of extreme transport due to excessive dimensions. These move up and down these areas at the time of harvesting. They shall have the right to require monthly licences under the Regulation, but they shall at the end of where the vehicles and the operator are, then, charge the costs or charges for this emergency transport. So, this case is properly arranged. The question that, if possible, Mr President, Mr Trofenik raised - I will not, I will be brief - whether it is appropriate to control it. Appropriate supervision, of course, is always compared to the state of the infrastructure. At national level, the state of infrastructure is accompanied by a local community, at local level. The constraints that we will face in the future at this time will be a fundamental burden due to the state of infrastructure and the cold, and this will have to be taken into account. It's not a small job, it's a hard job. The police are supervised by appropriate weighing or by measurements and inspection of emergency transport permits. However, in the area of control and in particular in the field of sanctions, I must admit that there are still some matters that need to be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. A colleague of Sok, a colleague of Orzmova, has the floor first. Please. Or they may be so short that this discussion would not be lost before we take a 15-minute break. Please. Comrade Sok, colleague of Zalokar and then colleague Trofenik again, if I see correctly. Comrade Trofenik, did you want a word? Then the replica. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Since the amendment has been tabled directly at the plenary session, I think it is right to say to ourselves in this matter to the end and to see what is behind this amendment and what will come out in practice if this is accepted. The Secretary has not yet said whether these two amendments, Mr Trofenika, support or not. All he said was that the government didn't define itself. I spoke earlier about transports in agriculture, and now we are more aware of what extraordinary transports are. I would just like to point out that municipal roads or local roads, public roads, have been built by most people alone, with various self - contributions, from local, municipal, and so on. These roads are built the way they are. And now, of course, with extraordinary transports, if this second amendment and the first one is to be adopted, it will be necessary for the congregation to have certain permits to be able, what I know, with trucks, with working machines on these roads. But it's not just about agriculture. This is also a question of whether these municipal roads will continue to be driven by large and heavy trucks that collect garbage, or whether trucks will be able to bring you home. Second, if the truck could bring in, I don't know, 3,000 bricks for or a truck of 10 cc's of grammose and so on. So these are not such simple questions. That's why these debates are opening up. And when I read this, I became aware of this because I know these discussions from the Armenian congregation. Mr Trofenik is also the mayor, but he has been working very hard for years to limit these matters in some way, but let us ask the people. We cannot simply accept a few restrictions for what people have built and invested in the past. That's what this is about. I think that, so quickly and so easily, these amendments, especially when we do not have a government position, should not be accepted in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u63	A colleague of Zalokarov, then a colleague of Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u64	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to rephrase my colleague Sok in the sense that I would like to tell him that the local communities are probably not so foolish as to be bad at making these decisions. It is certainly not necessary for local communities to urge them not to allow the transport of fuel oil to their citizens and similar things that they are now referring to. Where he doesn't know what I'm thinking right now, and he wants to cut down recklessly with his discussions, but here's the thing. Do you think that the country is a better guardian and a better custodian or a less difficult country? Of course. I suppose it's because she'll manage and decide on foreign property. This is about the property of local communities. And in fact, in this sense, what is happening on local roads will probably be with such a view, in fact, no matter what is happening and how these roads are then burdened and further damaged. So I think that the local community would certainly not take such decisions to limit its citizens, limit economic activity and the like in its field. I think, and I ask one question, and I want a very clear answer from the Secretary of State. Can you tell me, according to the government's position, that a legal solution when the Roads Directorate is the only one to decide and give consent for extraordinary transport, both on state roads and on municipal roads? Where is the legal basis that the directorate can decide on property that is not state-owned but is property of local communities, because now social property or something like that is probably gone and where is the legal basis that it can be decided completely autonomously, and where is the legal basis that this will not happen to us tomorrow, even in private courtyards, which in fact seems exactly the same, even in private courtyards? If the state assesses that this is necessary, then we can expect to receive extraordinary transport in private courtyards as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u65	Comrade Trofenik, then Comrade Grošelj, then Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u66	Thank you. First of all, I would like to tell my colleague Sok, I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to confirm that the essence of my amendment is no aggravation, given the rules in force, that it is already so. Or it should be and there's no new ones. However, the matter is not being implemented and it is only ambition by demarcating powers. The state is clear. Mixed traffic between local and state roads is a particular problem, the logic is that this is coordinated by the Directorate. It's not even a consensus, it's an opinion. When it comes to congregational matters, this is the exclusive jurisdiction of the congregation. So we don't get in the way. It is true that no one has determined the corridors that should be by law and regulation and similar matters because these things could be arranged for extraordinary transport. There are no new or more harsh conditions, as they are already established in the law in the municipal decrees where they have them. And as for the Secretary of State's statement on what control will look like. I'm glad he admitted that surveillance was bad. But it's not true that the police are monitoring it. The municipality is almost unable to obtain assistance from the police, the inspectorate in these matters. They offer private companies from Ljubljana a weighting of basic burdens and police assistance and a package of prices that is accessible and can be shown.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u67	Please, my friend Groschel. You have the floor. ♪ After you ♪ [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u68	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. It is true that what I wanted to replicate to Mr Sok was also answered by Mrs Zalokareva and by Mr Trofenik. However, I am very disturbed by its implementation that it is only right that he thinks it is a matter of protecting the inhabitants of rural origin. All other matters, when this is not the case and especially if the mayors apply for the word, are immediately, I would say, the subject of this attack. So I'm not going to repeat the word, it's just like it is. However, if you read this amendment too, you could very clearly see that this is Article 51, which speaks of extraordinary transport. I would support both amendments, if necessary, both Mrs Zalockareva and Mr Trofenik. But I think the Member is very, I would say, certain and limited. Mr State Secretary, despite the fact that you have mentioned that the government has not defined itself to this amendment, I think we appreciate you so much as the Secretary of State so that you can at least express your opinion at last. This amendment concerns what they have to do on a state road, I would say anything in local roads, etc., but all those things, not least, like that. Just like yesterday's glass, or today's debate, when we were talking about the agricultural land and forest fund. Of course, there were also speeches yesterday, since we will finally give about 162 million of these reimbursements, of course, but this has not been said to be 192 congregations, and in particular in our congregation will come to about 700 to 750 thousand a year, if we want to only partially repair them, usually costing us ten times or more. Some of us are also disturbed by the fact that we are most often not informed about these extraordinary transports. Because now that we have a police that is solely responsible to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, if we have very good relations, then of course we can be informed that something is going to happen there on state roads across our congregation, of course, and a little less about what is on local or municipal roads. That is why I think that this third paragraph is very correct, and I think it would also make sense to support it and, of course, also to ask Members to follow our call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u69	Comrade Kelemin, you wanted a word. Then Mr. Secretary of State is behind you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. Only one question is whether or not the Secretary of State will be able to answer it. Well, I'm interested in why these local roads are so poorly built and with such poor technical elements that it's not actually possible to carry them out, or if they're already under way, there's an extraordinary damage. Is it possible that the state does not have the right to monitor this and to prescribe some dimension or some quality, a minimum, which would then allow for as much normal transportation? The fact is that today people, like my colleague Sok said, build a road, maybe even just two meters wide to avoid walking home in mud, but that they can bring in a luxury car, with a bicycle, etc., even for tractors, and then, in fact, heavy traffic begins to take place on these roads and now how it is embarrassing to solve this or whether there is any norm, a state-level regulation that prescribes, in some elements and under what kind of burdens, minimum, there is also a need to build a local road. If you can say it. I think the biggest reason is that everyone does what they think is best for him at that point, and then the consequences are unsuccessful. This is also today this issue that we are solving, the inquality implementation of roads, which then emerges these terrible "damages", which, of course, are quite necessary then in the further recovery. In short, the vicious circle seems to me to have to be saved in the long run. If you can explain maybe this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. I'm asking if anyone else would like a word with their colleagues. The Secretary of State would like to conclude the debate on the amendments tabled for Article 1 and order a 15-minute recess at the request of the Nova Slovenije Group. You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'll try to be brief. Therefore, the state does not want to have interference with the congregations in this regard, it is now not and is not so written in this legislation. That's the first one. Secondly, I'd like to explain. Until the amendment by Mrs Zalockareva, the government has identified that it does not support him, for one simple reason, because it considers that this matter has already been settled and that it does not yet need to be further regulated. However, the Government does not oppose the content of this, nor does it oppose the amendment of Mr Trofenik, who is similar. So we're not contradicting the content, we're just saying that this thing is already settled. If you think that with the amendment it will be further, better arranged, then of course we do not have, I will say, we do not see any negative consequences, of course not that this matter would be better arranged. Third thing. The role of the State in the construction, management and maintenance of roads is primarily at regulatory level - regulations, technical regulations and standards - is without prejudice to governance, since this is the responsibility of municipalities and these matters can be governed by their own rules and also in accordance with their economic options. Surveillance - I did not say that control is bad, I said or thought - I am sorry that you misunderstood - that control will still have to be improved, in order to achieve the two objectives that are: firstly, to protect roads, and secondly, to allow the economy to be allowed in those borders that are still acceptable in terms of road protection and traffic protection as very economical transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u73	Would you like another word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Mr Secretary of State, you said that the matter which Mrs Zalokareva is trying to regulate with her amendment, as well as Mr Trofenik, has already been regulated. However, from the debate I somehow realized that this matter was obviously not being implemented. So the logical question is why it's not being implemented and where you see the reasons why it's not being implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much, colleague Diaci. Comrade Kelemin, you have no answer to the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u76	I would only ask because the Secretary of State did not answer my question - now that it was so pointless, but no - I would still ask for an answer to what I have set out, why these local roads are so poorly built. I don't know, I think that's the basic reason for all the problems if you don't think it's appropriate, but no, but I think that's an important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u77	Mr. Secretary of State, would you like another word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u78	So, I'm sorry, this answer would require a little more discussion. Now, if this is the moment we're talking about, I don't know, I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u79	Will you write it down?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u80	We will send in writing, I agree with this proposal. About what's not arranged, that's all. The police and the directorates regularly exercise supervision and/or control programmes on a regular basis. This surveillance could be somewhat more frequent, especially in the field of sanctions, when they find that someone has violated legislation or has violated a permit. These sanctions are somewhat too mild and should, in our view, be more acute. We are seriously thinking about this and because this time we are actually correcting the law on public roads simply because we want to harmonise it with the European Union, we want to find out in the next step, and we are already doing an analysis of what would be added to the law on public roads in order to make it more effective in this area, and we also want to do more in the area of prevention of abuse and road maintenance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u81	She's a representative of the Secretariat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The secretariat has therefore identified itself in its additional opinion to the proposed amendments tabled by the parliamentary group, as well as by Member Cveta Zalokar Orazem. Here we have highlighted our vision of the proposed solutions and we assess, in view of the drafting of the Public Road Act, which is intended to regulate the construction and maintenance of public roads and, of course, also in Article 51 of the Law, we have the power to lay down, in agreement with the Minister of the Interior, a regulation on the manner and conditions of carrying out extraordinary transport. These are rules on the uniform arrangements for emergency transport, which are required to be taken into account by all authorisation holders, both the Directorate and the local community, when transport is carried out on local roads. However, with regard to the solutions offered themselves to supplement Article 51, we must draw attention to the following. This Article 51 is set out in the chapter on the protection of state roads. It therefore examines the competence of the Directorate or determines the competence of the Directorate to issue licences, both in cases where extraordinary transport takes place on national or municipal roads. We further assess that a reasoned warning resulting from the proposed amendment does not, therefore, require that the authorisation holder be not required, i.e. the directorate in such cases, when the licence is issued for transport, which will also take place on local roads, not to inform the competent local community as operators of these roads. Why? If we look at the following paragraph 5 of this Article, the law provides for the obligation of the road director(s) to notify the road manager referred to in Articles 12 and 20, which are concession roads, in the event that they have them, and the DARS. In short, the highway manager. And if we want these provisions of Article 31 to be comprehensive and comprehensive, we estimate that it would be appropriate to also take into account the situation where extraordinary transport takes place on state and municipal roads, that the local community is then informed. But not any more, because the Directorate will, of course, issue a permit according to the uniform rules that it will prescribe, as I said, Minister. In addition, why the Directorate may issue such a permit without the specific consent of the local communities. These provisions are based on a single system of records. The Directorate shall have a system of road condition records. So these records have to be updated on a liquid basis, just as the state of the roads is changing. This, of course, is also the obligation of local communities. We therefore estimate that it would be necessary, as I said, for the comprehensive regulation of these issues in Article 51, for these cases when transport takes place on national and other roads to inform all managers of these other roads of the Directorate. This is, of course, a minimum supplement to address this issue, to a certain extent an unclean state and local community relationship in terms of regular maintenance, as Mr Trofenik pointed out. That is why, in this written opinion, we have also offered one shorter dictatorship to complement the text of Article 51, paragraph 3. However, we have not yet decided on the proposed amendments by Mr Trofenik. I therefore need to assess these proposed amendments and, in view of the fact that the provisions of Article 51 are included in the chapter on the protection of state roads, we are of course assessing that this proposed text in the first amendment supplementing Article 51, paragraph 2, would, of course, result in the non-consistentness of this Article. Indeed, in paragraph 6, we have only the power of the Minister to issue a regulation on the mode of issuance of extraordinary transport. However, as regards the proposed text for a comprehensive new regulation of the third paragraph, I would estimate that, of course, only one part would be part of the text of the Law on Public Roads, while the other part relating to jurisdiction, who should issue a permit for extraordinary transport along the municipal road, does not, of course, belong to this law, but is a place to regulate these matters in municipal decrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u83	Anyone else want a word? I guess not. Therefore, I conclude the debate on the amendments tabled under Article 1 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. Do you insist on five minutes? [[...]] I give five minutes of rest at the request of the New Slovenia Group. That means we'll continue at 15.42. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. The Bible’s
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u84	After a good three minutes, we will continue the meeting and it would be useful to be immediately concluded so that we can continue our work. [[...]] Please. Please take your seats. We will determine the presence in the Chamber and then ask the representative of the New Slovenia Group whether he wishes to communicate the views of the Group on the amendments tabled to Article 1 of the Act. Please, if he takes his seats, because I will determine the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. Please, if you take your seats in the hall, I will rediscover the presence in the hall. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. 50 of us are present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Would you like a word, Comrade Sok? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. I think that this time has been useful for both the proponents and the representatives of the ministry to have a discussion, and the secretariat has also responded and explained its position on these two amendments, and from what has been said, we conclude that we will not support Mrs Orazam's amendment in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much. First, a notice of how we're going to decide. First we will decide on the first amendment of colleague Trofenik, then we will decide on the second amendment of colleague Trofenik, then we will decide on the second amendment of colleague Zalokar Orazem, etc. Is the procedure clear to the National Assembly? [[Yes, it ……]] I'm asking for peace. We're moving on to decision-making. First of all, I'm putting my colleague William Trofenik's first amendment to the decision. We're voting. 50 Excuse me? [[...]] Do you have a comment on the voting device? Yes, please. Excuse me? Wait a minute. Do you object to the vote because of the voting device?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u87	[[...]] [[Not included, not included.]] It didn't work here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u88	Okay, we'll repeat the vote. We will repeat the vote Whether you can press the key in this vote, we need to check whether the voting device is functional or not. [[...]] Please, can you vote? Was she doing okay now? I will repeat the vote because there was an objection during the vote, otherwise I would not have - since there was an objection during the vote, I will repeat it. I repeat the vote on the amendment to Article 1, the first amendment of my colleague Trofenik. 54 present, 19 in, 30 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We are voting on the second amendment of our colleague Trofenik; this is excluded by a proposal from my colleague Orazem. 46 present, 15 for, 27 vs. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 27.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We are voting on the proposal of colleague Zalokar Orazem, this is an amendment under order number 2 in the amendment review. We're voting. 52 present, 38 for, 5 versus. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 5.]] I'm guessing the amendment got the required majority. We are voting on the whole article. 50 present, 43 in, 2 in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 2. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the amendment under order number 1 to Article 2. We're voting, please. There's not enough of us in the gym. Once again, I will ask all my colleagues and colleagues to vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 2. The vote is under way, please, if you'll excuse me. 48 present, 41 for, one up. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 3. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I shall put the amendment under order number 1 to Article 3 to the vote. We're voting. 49 present, 44 for, no against [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the text of Article 4 to which no amendment has been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I shall put the text of Article 4 to the vote. We vote on Article 4. I will have to ask again for a vote. We vote on the text of Article 4. Please clarify whether you support or not such an article. 46 present. 40 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] We're moving to a vote on the title. Anybody want a word? We're voting on the title. Ask for a vote. We're in the middle of a vote on the title. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 48 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. The first three articles are open. Qualified applicants want to table amendments. If that's the case, let them do it. [[They don't want to.]] Then we move on to a decision on the law as a whole. The text is harmonised. The Secretariat shall have no comments. We are voting on the law as a whole. Please. We are voting on the law as a whole. 53 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. Let me just inform you that the Government of Slovenia's harmonisation amendment to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests is ready, we wait for the writing and then the National Assembly can decide. Otherwise, it goes to 4. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the Consumer Protection Act. We'll wait for the government to arrive. Otherwise, I think we can start by presenting the views of the Committee on the Economy. Ah, the government is here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u89	Nice greeting, government representatives. You want a word? Mrs Vera Cosmik, Director of the Consumer Protection Office, please, you may go to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u90	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. You have before you a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Consumer Protection Act. This is a law that was passed in 1998 after a long debate. At the outset, I would like to point out that the basic issues that were adopted in the law at the time, particularly the basic logic of consumer protection, were not known for the necessary changes at that time, and that is why we are not changing them in this law, but we are preserving them and only trying to upgrade them. It is true, however, that the area of consumer protection is one of those areas that is rapidly developing in the European Union and the European Union as a whole, complementing, coordinating and in some ways producing very many additional directives. And that is also the basic content of this proposal that is ahead of you. In short, it is about introducing into our existing legal order nine directives of the European Union, which in this way do not change legal certainty, but which are essentially complemented or, above all, specify what is extremely important and good for the protection of consumers. I'm just going to list what directives this is about, because you're going to see what this whole bill is about. Directives on unfair contractual conditions, Directives governing distance contracts, large-scale Directives on misleading advertising and comparative advertising, on contracts concluded outside business premises, then on directives governing the action for abandonment, on the harmonisation of rules requiring manufacturers to be responsible for defective products, on the guarantee directive and on the specific aspects of the sale of temporary leased tourist facilities. We are fully introducing the Directives. Since they are very extensive, the proposal before you is also very extensive. Over the past months, we have tried to involve with a very broad debate in the preparation of amendments to the law, especially the Chamber of Economic and Commercial Affairs, the Chamber of Lawyers, NGOs, and I must admit that these discussions and this coordination have been a great deal, that we have coordinated the vast majority and that there is indeed a very harmonised law before you. I am confident that we will be able to supplement it in the coming months, including with your comments and additions, and that the law will be adopted there by mid-this year, because it is one of those laws that Slovenia is expected to adopt by mid-year, and in particular is due to enter into force at the end of this year. There was also a debate on the Committee, also in the State Council. The Office of the National Legislative Assembly has made comments that we have fully reviewed and we believe that we will be able to include them well in the text for other readings, of course, along with those that you will also provide. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. The rapporteur is not among us. However, we all have before us the report of the committee to this law. So I'm asking, does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Not at all. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions of the parent working body. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act - the first reading - is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 43 present. I think there are a lot more of us in the Chamber, so I am asking for your attention, because we are going to vote on the proposal for a decision next time. We're voting. Presence 38. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the rules of procedure for 10 minutes, I'm breaking up. However, I would like to point out that it was the intention of an extraordinary meeting to hold a backlog, since we are only on the 4th item of the extraordinary agenda, but I would ask for proper cooperation. We'll pick it up at 16.11. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u92	Please come to the Chamber, because we will vote for the third time on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the consumer protection law is the first to be considered, a suitable basis for the preparation of a second reading bill. We will vote on the proposal for a decision for the third time once you have reached your seats. At 4:11 p.m. This is the third time we have voted on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the positions drawn up by the mother's working body and recorded in the report of the working body. It is nine views, as well as a proposal for a follow-up to the Committee's position on the economy, which is proposed by Ferri Horvat. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We will first vote on the proposal for a follow-up proposal tabled by Ferri Horvat. We're voting. The first vote failed again. That's why I'm asking for your attention. For the second time, we are voting on a follow-up proposal. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against no one. The vote was 38.) [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. And we are moving on to a decision on the proposed positions as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed positions are fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. And we are moving on to the 5th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the bill, and at the end of the 2nd point, we wanted to move on to the possibility that Members who wanted to read the material that the services had delivered to them. If you agree, we would have done point 5 and then moved on to point 2. Thank you very much. So we're going to move on to 5. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the customs law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I invite representatives of the government to the hall. Between us, I very much welcome the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be presented to us by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Darko Končan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members! The Government has submitted to the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the customs law by which our country fulfils its obligations from the negotiating bases with regard to the further progressive adaptation of Slovenian customs legislation to the European Customs Code. Thus, the first set of amendments and additions proposed to the National Assembly for approval include provisions for which the current practice has shown that it is necessary and possible, and at the same time the adjustments necessary for amendments to the European legislation which was in force at the end of 1999 and in 2000, such as the extension of binding information on the classification of goods in the Combined Nomenclature from three years to six years, the delivery of accompanying documents in the electronic exchange of the customs declaration, the reduction of the uniform rate of duty from now applicable 15% to 10%, the determination of the Government's competence in the field of normal customs procedures and practices, the reimbursement of paid import duties in the customs procedure for the export, the reduction of the uniform rate of duty from now applicable 15% to 10%, the determination of customs duties and the payment of customs debt. The Government is also proposing to the National Assembly the adoption of those provisions that will achieve a full harmonisation of the area of exemption from import duties, where we have so far not been in line with European rules. In this respect, it was based on the negotiating bases in the area of the 25th Customs Union and on the fact that, by implementing the new Customs Tariff Act, it could be possible to establish autonomous measures, to reduce or abolish the customs rate for certain goods not produced in our country, and to end the transitional periods for the reduction of customs rates under free trade agreements with individual countries and groups of countries, such as the European Union, EFTA, CEFTE, the Baltic States, Croatia, Macedonia, Turkey, Israel, Bosnia and Herzegovina - together, 33 - so that all industrial goods of origin from those countries are imported at the level of duty free and thus the abolition of certain exemptions would have no economic impact on the beneficiaries of this Title. The last set of amendments, however, includes those changes that are necessary to address some of the dilemmas and issues that arise in practice, as well as the shortcomings of the text so far, such as, for example, the use of the same terms throughout the whole law, which was found in the previous text, the harmonisation of terms in accordance with adopted or amended laws in other areas, the elimination of certain duplications of individual provisions, as well as the modification of language, so that a substantially more appropriate proposal for a particular term is proposed. In view of all the above and the justifications I have given, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to approve the proposed law as a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur of the committee wish to give an opinion? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. We have not received written submissions to the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal of the law on amendments and additions to the customs law - the first reading - is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 43 votes against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on the position taken by the parent working body and is set out in the report by the working body. Anybody want a word? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed position. We're voting. There are 45 or more of us in attendance, so I ask again for your attention. Secondly, we will vote on the proposal for the position of the parent working body. We're voting. Once again, we did not vote successfully in the second vote. That's why I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. We'll continue at 16.32.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you to take your seats, because this is the third time we will vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for a second reading. Thirdly, we are voting on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the customs law is the first to be considered, a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the position prepared by the parent working body and recorded in the report of the working body. Anybody want a word? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the proposed position. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 48 against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed position has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thank the representative and representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for their cooperation. And we're going, as I said before, to SUGGEST 2. Agenda items, this is the third defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Composition of Agricultural Lands and Lands of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the finding of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs that the adopted amendments violated the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a harmonisation amendment to Article 6 of the bill. You received the harmonisation amendment on the bench. I'm asking the representative of the government, or does he want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to a representative of the mother's working body? [[No, no, ……]] There is no discussion on the content of the harmonisation amendment and we are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 42 to 13. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 12, against 44. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed law is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. We're moving to six. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Execution and Insurance. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, following a rapid procedure. However, when setting the agenda, the assembly decided to deal with it on a regular legislative basis, which is the first reading. Does the government want a word? Mr. Hinko Jenull, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! A more extensive amendment to the law on enforcement and insurance is proposed by the Government, although this law has only been in force for three years. The Institute of Executives, established by law, operates for about a year and a half. However, in a short period of time, the law has already been enforced mainly in the work of the offenders and their cooperation with the courts, showing a number of shortcomings which have led to the failure to achieve the purpose of the law to a greater extent or not to the extent expected. When preparing the amendments and additions necessary to bring the law into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court, the applicant requested information from the courts on the enforcement of the law. Surprisingly, an extremely large number of proposals have come into play, which have coincided in essential parts and have shown that the Institute of Private Executives needs to be upgraded and strengthened. In this context, we propose to increase the formal education required for the appointment of the executing officer, while allowing transitional provisions for those who already have this title to replace this condition by the installation of substitutes or persons who qualify for this formal education. By amending the entire section on executors, the proposer wants to increase the supervision of their work, their education, their professional verification and their disciplinary responsibility. Another important segment to which the law affects is the operation of executioners with courts. Presidencies for enforcers, which creditors have to pay - there have been many speeches in the general public - should no longer be mandatory. The perpetrator could request bail instead of the current advance, but not at his own expense, but at the expense of the judicial positions. The security should be activated or used when it is committed, and in the event that it does not have sufficient resources to repay itself in the execution itself. This ensures that the creditor’s assets are secured and that the perpetrator is entitled to them when the work is done. It simplifies pre-emption and costing decisions so that the court, by means of its decisions, intervenes only when the creditor so requests, if the creditor considers that the perpetrator has charged more than what goes to him by law and by tariff. On the other hand, in the light of the increased level of education, the determination of each enforcement act shall be abolished to the executing authority and shall be significantly burdened by the courts. The second set of issues concerns enforcement remedies. In order to prevent abuse of rights and to delay proceedings, even stricter conditions are laid down for the enforcement of objections, postponement of enforcement and other remedies. Thus, an objection after the expiry of the legal period should be limited, enforcement courts should be empowered to decide on the facts at issue on the basis of the decision on the preceding issues and a compulsory enforcement security should be provided, except for socially justified reasons. In accordance with the changes in payment turnover, enforcement shall be adjusted to the assets in the accounts. The other amendments relate to individual enforcement measures and are designed in accordance with the requirements of case law to ensure faster and more efficient procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the board, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u98	While Mr Pavel Rupar has been appointed rapporteur, as I see he is absent, I will try to summarise him briefly. In considering this law, as has already been established in the agenda, the first observation was that there are large-scale changes and, of course, the law must be adopted on a regular basis and the national assembly has already decided so. In addition, we have received and considered in the Committee and have taken into account the views of the secretariat, which points to some things, and of course the opinion of the Committee on the Economy, which, a few days prior to the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, considered as an interested labour force. We were also informed of the comments made by the Board of Executives, the comments made by the Chamber of Economics and the comments made by Mr Dari Šilc and the comments made by the Slovenian company. I must say, the general view that the law needed to be reformed has prevailed. However, we have instructed the proposer to take particular account of the secretariat's comments on the legislation in the part where it is found that there are entirely new conditions and requirements for judicial enforcement if these are new conditions such as - that is, university education in the legal direction, in proportion to the work required. The opinion drawn from the decision of the Constitutional Court was mentioned in particular here. That's all I think. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly for Law Amendment adopt the first reading and also propose that it consider and take due account of the comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u100	Respectable. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law are extensive, as a large number of articles are changing, three years ago the adopted law on enforcement and insurance. The government is proposing a rapid procedure, but this proposal has already been rejected on the home labour body, as the President has already said, which shows that members of the ruling coalition are also aware of the importance and scope of the proposed changes. The proposal seeks to eliminate the non-compliance of the law with the Constitution, for which the Constitutional Court has set a deadline that has expired in 2000. Amendments and additions are also intended to be in the interests of the legal security of the parties in the enforcement procedure, as well as provisions on the supervision of the performance of the executioners, and otherwise proceedings are pending before the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the law on the review of the work of the executors. Due to the complexity of the procedure, many executions are not completed, which is why also high amounts of advances are not currently used. In all of this, however, they are not adequately insured. Otherwise, all these changes and additions come from negotiating points for joining the European Union, and we are taught by the government. However, it would be interesting to know these negotiating points, as they have already been cited by the proposer as being quite plausible. We propose that the government present the negotiating points for the adoption of the acquis of the European Union in this area or prepare them as an integral part of this bill. It has already happened that the applicant has ensured consistency and, after some time, it has been found that this is not true. There are many reasons for amending the law, which is too extensive with more than 300 articles to allow for rapid and effective enforcement, especially as it enforces specific Slovenian solutions that are different from those in European countries with an effective judicial system. Because of this and because of inconsistencies, there are too many provisions in it that make enforcement difficult and do not facilitate what is intended to be its main purpose. Allow me to draw attention to some of the provisions that we consider to be in practice most often. By issuing a judicial decision on the judicial procedure, the procedure does not necessarily have to be completed. Where the debtor fails to comply with what is imposed on him by the decision, the decision must be enforced. In such a case, the creditor shall require the intervention of the State or its authorities, in our case, the executing authorities. Our model of executors, which began work in May 2000, is something special. We have not had any experience in this type of work, and there have been major problems that the current bill is trying to resolve at least partially. We note that such a private enforcement system has created an additional time and financial burden on the courts, since the courts have to service the executioners in some way. 150,000 decisions per year, certificates and orders issued by courts for enforcement, the courts are still burdening them with additional burdens and taking up valuable time. The courts must first issue a decision on the executioner and the level of the advance, after which they confirm that the advance is paid and then the order of what the perpetrator must do. It is also worth stopping under the amended conditions for the appointment of the executing entity. The minimum level of education, two years of work experience, has been sufficient before, and according to the amendment of the law, the executor must obtain the professional title of a university lawyer. In order to implement this provision, a period of one year or within the same period, the executing officer must propose the appointment of a deputy or conclude a contract of employment with the person concerned. The Executive Service shall be defined as a public service and shall carry out the profession as a separate private activity. It will require an appropriate degree of law from the Faculty of Law in the eyes, which the applicant advocates with concern for greater professionalism and is regulated in other Western countries as well. This raises the question whether or not the applicant knew this three years ago. Otherwise, the one-year period for enforcement officials to meet the new conditions for education is not appropriate. It would be good if the applicant could also provide us with information on what education has been given by the so-called executors. We do not think that the solution to the problem of a substitute or a person on the basis of a contract is the best, since it is not possible to determine what the status of that person will be and what its relationship with the perpetrator will be. We are afraid that such a solution may lead to abuse, but we are confident that this will not achieve the objective, this is to ensure greater professionalism and thus independence in the work of the executioners and, at the end of the stage, the burden of the judiciary. Otherwise, provisions are still in force to allow the courts to determine, in the light of circumstances or other justified reasons, certain direct actions of enforcement and insurance by the executing authorities. The applicant does not sincerely wish to acknowledge that it is not entirely certain that such a solution as a system of enforcement outside the judiciary is appropriate, as it allows for a possible deterioration in the situation in the field of work of the executing authorities to lead to the re-imposal of the executing magistrates or at least to the situation in which the executing officer would be linked to the court and rewarded in an incentive manner, given the success of the recovery. The system of private enforcers, which is separate from the courts, constitutes an exception in the European legal order and is effective only in countries, as it is supported by an appropriate legal, supervisory, financial and strong organisational structure. We note that, even in financial transactions, executives do not run as they should. The appellant must give an advance to the costs of enforcement within the time limit set by the court in the decision. However, the amount of advances paid by creditors to the executing entity is very high. The fact is, the creditor pays up front with good money, for bad money he doesn't know if he'll ever get it back. However, these funds lie in the accounts for a very long time, even up to eight years, as the courts cannot quickly decide on the final accounts and thus on the costs of the procedure, not to mention that the courts are still under additional burden. Thus, the executioners serve with interest, which is not exactly negligible, and the creditors can be wiped out under their noses. In addition, these funds are not insured in the executing accounts at all and may also be used unintentionally. We hope that the amendment will fix the matter as the advance is replaced by a security to pay the costs of the perpetrator, which is paid directly before the perpetrator starts the act and is stored in the court’s deposit accounts. However, a security which is not compulsory should also be determined by the executing entity itself and account for costs which we hope would burden the court. The provisions relating to the supervision of enforcement authorities are also worth considering. The President of the Court shall supervise the legality of the proceedings. In this regard, an initiative to assess constitutionality is being put in place as such an arrangement would be contrary to the constitutional principle of the independence of the judiciary. Nor is the proposed amendment best since it is not clear whether they exercise control over the legality of the performance of the duties of the Executive President of the District Court or of the District Court at the same time, or whether one is superior to the other. The key question is also how many percent of the cases are completed after the enforceability of the enforcement decision so that the creditor is paid, which is the final purpose of enforcement. In the case of mobile executions representing more than half of the ordinary enforcement cases, it is important for the successful and rapid completion of the procedure to be carried out as soon as possible. The data showed that more than 50% of the debtors voluntarily settled their obligation when the rubble was made, while only 16% of the debtors did so in front of the bank. Implementation is long-term, and acceleration is therefore needed in this particular part. The possibility for the creditor to obtain additional information prior to the application for enforcement, or at least after the jurisdiction of the decision, would constitute a burden on the court, since only this would spend a great deal of time and money on inquiries. The fact is that one of the key problems for delays and inefficient data acquisition is the meddling of courts. The appellant is interested in obtaining as much data as possible before the procedure or, as I have said, at least after the decision has been taken or when this decision is authorised, because it is only possible to decide whether to proceed in the process at all. For example, if the debtor does not have any assets, many times it happens that many enforcement procedures will then be terminated by the cessation of enforcement. The proposal also regulates the area of enforcement in family disputes, which is an extremely sensitive area. It's about protecting the benefits and rights of children. The presence of workers for social work, together with the executives, in a kind of police capacity, is quite questionable, as it raises questions about their advisory work and the execution of their basic mission. Changes in insurance that give all jurisdiction to notaries are considered inadequate and unnecessary. As a result, the courts will not be particularly burdened, and notaries will be able to raise their profits again. In recent months, we know that notary tariffs have already risen three times, and the country would thus re-initiate them. It is interesting to know that the court makes an inspection of the land register just before issuing the insurance decision and the notary only issues the decision on the basis of the statement. But at this time, a lot can happen. There are often errors in the composition of the notary record. Therefore, we believe that the transfer of insurance powers to the notaries would bring a lot of problems and we strongly oppose the proposal. The fact is that citizens do not benefit from the successful exercise of their rights in court if we do not benefit from these rights because of the lack of enforcement in practice. The successful enforcement of judicial decisions depends to a large extent also on the trust that citizens have in justice. Inadequate enforcement may result in the risk of creditors using unlawful recovery methods, which is already happening in practice. This is what we would like to pay special attention to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. Since my predecessor has already listed a lot of this, I'll be able to do it myself. These changes to the law before us are essentially necessary and necessary. Firstly, because of a decision of the Constitutional Court which found non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, at least if not more, these changes to the law due to the situation in this area are important due to the legal security of the parties in the enforcement procedure. This is particularly important or necessary in the field of justice, especially in the sense of judicial backlog. Certain things have to be done in, I'll say, appropriate, real time, and some things are urgent and need to be arranged sooner than maybe some others, because for some month or less people don't hurt as much as some others. We do not oppose this law in the Social Democratic Party. But we do have quite a few substantive concerns. I would like to point out that we are pleased to see this conclusion that the law is not adopted in a fast procedure, but that it is going into a normal procedure, into a regular procedure. There are many things that need to be resolved, more appropriately defined, and a thorough preparation is needed. We believe that any other procedure other than regular procedure could do more harm than good, given that it is a change. It is also incomprehensible for us in the Social Democratic Party that the executives now have the required education from the V. level, that is to say from the middle to the university level, and the transitional period is only one year. Everyone knows it can't be done. This somehow leads us to believe that the executioners, even though they have not yet come to life, are already superfluous. It is only in this way that we can explain this change in the required education that they have, I don't know, become disruptive or unnecessary. Basically, this is kind of the thinking that comes to us on such a proposal from the proposer. It probably does not need to be emphasized that such a rise in education is not consistent with the executives. The next thing that we don’t understand is an area or a solution that somehow falls within the field of child rearing and care. Taking or assigning children to one or another parent has so far been somehow within the purview of administrative units and social work centres, and is now moving on to the field of justice. We feel that this is not the best solution and that it should be carefully considered before we write it down; at least the one we now have is highly doubtful. The next area, which seems very problematic to us, is the possibility that creditors, before going into proceedings, have the right to request an insight into the debtor's assets to determine whether they are being paid or not. There may be a violation of the right to the protection of personal data, especially if, for example, the creditor is a foreigner. Even in this case, we don't think it's the best solution. It is true, however, that by entering the European Union the term 'twitter' will be substantially different than it is now, but for the time being it is still so; until the European Union is included, this division is fully appropriate. The next thing that bothers us is that the executor can claim bail, regardless of the result of recovery. This can also lead to the fact that the perpetrator does not actually have an interest in carrying out the task for which he was in charge. There can also be a breach in this area, and there can also be arrangements, because the perpetrator will always get paid at least as much as he has tried if not more. The remuneration of the executives should be linked to the recovery results. Finally, I would just like to say that we support the opinion given by the secretariat that the executing entity must immediately hand over the executed matter, whether it is money or material, to the creditor. For, as we have already heard today, manipulation and unnecessary harmful situations could occur in the interests of the creditor, so that those who do not have any right may have the resources of someone else. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Party, we will support this law as a suitable basis for the second reading, precisely because we will be able to analyse and hear the views of others in the second and third reading processes and find a good solution, because the situation is not as good as it is now. The intention of this marriage, we think it's real. Something has to be done, and we think it's the law that should solve it. Of course, the concerns that will be heard today, which we have also mentioned, will be resolved to the benefit of the creditors and that the rights of citizens and citizens will also be better protected in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Diaci will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree that there are valid reasons for the adoption as soon as possible of the amendment to the law on enforcement and insurance. In addition to the required alignment with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia speaks primarily in favour of prompt action on debt recovery. Since the adoption of the new law on enforcement and insurance in 1998, no significant changes have been observed for the better. On the contrary. The courts, creditors and debtors, the professional and general public, find that proceedings are now far more complex than they were under the old law. It's even worse that they're much more expensive. Trustees must pay high premiums in individual cases immediately after the issue of the enforcement decision. The money lies in the accounts of the executives, where it is not interest-bearing and low-valued. It means that creditors carry an additional risk of even being paid back what they had to pay in order to execute the judgment. The payment of the executives is not in any way linked to the final success of the execution, so it does not depend on whether it has led to the payment or not. This discourages creditors from recovery at high prices. Indirectly, this strengthens payment discipline and contempt of court decisions, which we do not want in SMS, and we are convinced that no one in Slovenia wants to do so. Delays in recovery and the system that encourages debtors to delay also have economic consequences. Unpaid obligations mainly make entrepreneurs and smaller companies in great difficulty. They are subject to obligations, VAT must be paid immediately after the invoice is issued and, on the other hand, years can wait long for money from their debtors. The fact is that this also has an impact on employment. They say that by amending legislation, the country responds quickly to the bad situation and quickly corrects those shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the law. In our SMS we share the belief that this law must be adopted as soon as possible. Until that happens, further large amounts of money will be paid to the executives' accounts. In the coming months, according to the annual number of enforcement procedures, this additional burden will be imposed in at least another 50,000 cases and will be "stocked" in quotations paid a lot of money that could be used more rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate and we are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance, the first reading, is a suitable basis for preparing a proposal for a second reading law. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Before we move to a decision, I invite colleagues and colleagues who are close to joining us to vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. The first vote has not been successful, so we are voting on the proposal for a decision for a second time. Since the second vote was not successful, we continue in 10 minutes. For the third time, we will vote on the proposal for a decision at 5:18 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u106	Respectable, Your Honor. It's 5:18. This is the time when we agreed to vote for the third time on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, namely that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance - the first reading - is a suitable basis for preparing a proposal for a second reading. We will vote on the proposal for a decision for the third time. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the debate on the two positions drawn up by the mother's working body and are recorded in the report of the working body. Anybody want a word? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed positions. We're voting. The first vote was not successful again. I think there's enough of us in the hall. I'm asking you to cooperate. Secondly, we will vote on the proposal for a position. Vote, second time. There are 47 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed views are accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and the Government very much. Also to the representative of the secretariat, thank you very much. And we're moving on to 7. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVENUE OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, PUBLIC ACCORDING TO THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK FOR THE PROJECT FINANCING OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS - A FACILITATION PROCEDURE. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Because no one wants a word, I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. I didn't get written applications for the debate. Anybody want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. The law has four articles, the first and the second are amended, both of which are written in the report of the parent working body, these are the amendments to Articles 1 and 2. I shall put Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We move on to decision-making first on the amendment of the parent's working body. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The vote on the Article has not been fully successful. I am asking for your attention, we are enough in the hall; I see no reason not to do a few more points today until 6 p.m. This is the second time we have voted on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 37 votes to 2. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 2 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision, first of all to an amendment to the committee. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 38 votes against 6. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 4. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 3 to which no amendment has been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We decide on Article 3. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against 3. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. I shall give Article 4 to the debate and to the decision-making process. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the decision on Article 4 last. We're voting. The first vote on Article 4 was not successful. Can I have your attention again? Second, we vote on Article 4. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. It's 39 votes against 3. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 4 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 1. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to Articles 1 and 2 have been adopted to the proposal for a second reading law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to these articles, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I ask the Secretariat on the basis of Article 198, paragraph 3, whether there has been any disagreement. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 3. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. With regard to this law, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has tabled an additional proposal for a decision contained in the report of the Committee. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on an additional decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the government for their cooperation, including the representative of the secretariat, thank you very much. And we're moving on to 9. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law amending the law on the provision of funds for the construction of state roads laid down in the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Government representatives, if they are among us, I invite them to the hall. The government will be joining us any minute, so let's take another minute. The bill will be presented to us by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, Mr Anton Shaina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I'm a little late. Amendments to the law on the provision of funds for the construction, development of state roads or to the short term petrol tolar were requiring legislative changes, since the original law was based on transport tax. The traffic tax was replaced by value added tax and replaced by excise duties. Thus, there was no longer any basis under this Act for calculating the means for the construction of motorways, and this had to be replaced accordingly. There are also some other reasons why these matters should be handled differently. The reason for the law is to provide permanent and stable resources for the construction of motorways and that Dars, as a company for the implementation of the national highway construction programme, can accept long-term commitments and long-term loans so that he can even build motorways. This law, this amendment to the law, regulates a minimum amount at the annual level intended for the construction of motorways, in this case 37 billion tolls at real value, at least, may be increased by reference to the available resources in the budget, and that this law shall expire by the use of the funds earmarked for the rebalancing of the national programme for the construction of motorways for this purpose. This would cover the overall balance of the national programme from a financial point of view for the provision of funds for the construction of the programme. Procedures and measures are also laid down as to how these funds are indicated and what procedures are in place to draw these funds. However, I think that everything was also written in the explanation, so that I could answer any questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment as a working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. The President, Mr. Andrey Gerencher, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. The proposed law was examined by the Committee on 11 January. He adopted two conclusions, the first to complete the explanation by the applicant, which we all received days ago. Finally, he adopted two conclusions - to agree with the reduced procedure and to support the draft law by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Gerencher said that the committee had also accepted and confirmed. Of course, I'm a board member myself, and I was against it. Why was I against it? Let's say we're looking at these tables that are ahead of us, and the question that I've been dealing with myself since I've been in this national assembly, how the dedicated money that comes from the industry is being used, so on a short gas toll - for tolls it's kind of clear to me - that so little of that money is being given to me for its purpose, it can't possibly be clear to me and actually no one has answered this question professionally. I received the best answer today in Del, where former Minister Marjan Kranjc wrote the course, even the chronology of the construction of motorways from 1993 to 2000. After what Mr Kranjc points out, we are not even halfway through the road - 41% of the highway is built - and the money has been spent so far - all the money that is foreseen since 1993. That's because even 50% is not spent, I just don't know who else to believe. I hope that the current government is more honest than it was in 1993. I was kind of confused by the numbers, actually. And also, let's say, that gas toll that was scheduled at the beginning of the year, it's already been tried, and at least it would have been used 100%, but it didn't. We can see from this table that by 1996 there was, then it went from 95% in 1994, to 47%, on average, 79%. I don't know if anyone would have told me where that money went, but even if it didn't, we know he didn't go for his own purpose, which he wasn't used for. How am I going to believe now, let's say that this second table, where it's supposed to be by 2005 -- I just can't believe it anymore. For example, last year a map was drawn with priority construction of different sections, and this year there is little more than that - the Rebrenica fell off, fell off at Ormož 8 kilometers, I think it was, and so on. I've already talked about the referendum and asked questions from Members of Parliament, etc. And now, let's say, even if we are aware that we have 94 billion net assets, that's about 10 billion tolars for this purpose to be used in the same way as in tolars. When that loan was granted, 50 percent of the construction of Rebernics was valid, its present value is only 1/4. So, for two and a half miles of highways, the funds went up. And even if I'm talking about the Rebars: there's already a bad mile from the Crushed Down, which is not used, and it's some kind of appendix or dead capital. And if we don't keep doing that, then I really don't know what this policy is. So I just don't get it. We were in the Aydov Congregation, in the world, in the beginning against the construction of the highway along the Vipav Valley. We said we should just update, otherwise the leg against Raztrem and over Col to get close to Ljubljana - 20 kilometers less - they just voted us to be, there must be a highway. And if that option were the one we proposed, that road would have been ever built, we would only need a third belt in the Rebernicas and have transit go over Sežana if it connects Ljubljana to the West. It's the only thing that's gone wrong. Now I see we were right. And in any way I support, I think it's a priority to connect Koper to Lendava or Shantil; I'm for that, just then, with the pace we have, I don't know where we're going to get to. And so, I'm sorry, you didn't convince me to vote for it. And that goes for the whole group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinion of the Group of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written applications and therefore the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Because no one wants to discuss it - Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. I still think it's an extremely important marriage. In fact, it seems that this House does not have all the obligations that Members have, nor does it have the will or time to discuss these matters a little more precisely. See, already in the discussion on the budget, some of us proposed and requested that the Slovenian national road programme should be amended. At that time, there were promises today that this would happen at the end of last year, now it is February, but there is no change in this programme in Parliament or in the spirit and hearing. So far in Slovenia, we have built, I think, a little over 200 kilometers of highways and fast roads - 217, maybe 240, but the whole Slovenian road programme is supposed to be built when 518 kilometers of highways and fast roads are built. The year 2004 and 2005, when the Slovenian road programme was to be implemented and completed, of course, is moving away and some are already writing that it will not be until 2018, and probably even later. For the means to build highways are shrinking rapidly, and they are not nearly achieving what was planned with the highway program at the time. The situation is now such that this highway programme is being adapted according to the budget of the planned resources. This means that in the coming years, Slovenia will be able to build the most, perhaps 15, or, at best, a few kilometers more motorways and fast roads, and that is, of course, what the Prime Minister explains is a success story in Slovenia, which, of course, no one believes in this country anymore. Last time I listened to him in Odessa, he said that in Slovenia it was a success story, and if we don't admit it at home, he admits to us abroad. I don't know why the foreign would acknowledge us, because we will obviously enter the European Union in this area completely unprepared, because Slovenia will not actually have a highway cross built. The construction of roads therefore ended more than a success story with a story about a fast "polygee", because the construction takes place in a sluggish way and, of course, this is not what was adopted with this programme at the time. I am therefore convinced that the government should come to the National Assembly first by amending this programme and then by finding the appropriate resources. Now it is so that the programme adapts to the resources available, and the problem is that this gas toll is no longer used deliberately - and this law will not make use of it deliberately - but it will run into the budget and will also be used in the budget for other purposes. As my fellow Member has already said that our Group of Members will not support this law, I do not intend to support it myself. I am convinced that the government should take a more decisive step in this area, but above all, it should take a more decisive step on what you also have in the coalition contract; that Slovenia will try to build some highways and fast roads through concessions. We are aware that this requires a law that would allow it at all, but we can see that until now, this government has not taken any steps in the area of law, which would allow any section of Slovenia to be built even through concession. He's not even trying this way. At times, we hear the opinion of the Prime Minister or certain ministers that the government is thinking about it, but we are, of course, interested in how long the government will only think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. The fact is that the motorway programme is not implemented as envisaged. The fact is, we still lack at least 380 km of highways, which we should have built to a large extent, and yet we have not even started building on certain sections. It is also true that the construction of motorways, especially tunnels and future viaducts, seems to be put into construction for foreigners, instead of giving this to domestic operators, who would thus elevate Slovenia, Slovenian consumers and fill the Slovenian budget. This is how money flows abroad, and instead of Dars making sure that some money is left at home, instead of the state road company doing the same thing, it's actually trying to transfer money abroad, so that something comes back, sometimes even into private accounts. In spite of all this and despite the fact that, for example, the petrol toll, which is supposed to be dedicated money, disappears into the various dead sleeves of the integral budget and that we fill all possible things with it, except for those for which the gas toll is intended - that is to say that it is disappearing where it should not have disappeared into private hands - we will support this law. We are aware that there is a need for control, and I think that we should set up in Parliament, within Parliament, some control body that would review, and this gives a detailed overview of the functioning of Dars and DDC, because there are the biggest consumers of money, and that money that is disappearing. There are also people who make a profit to foreigners and take advantage of the Slovenians. As I have heard, last Thursday, some interventions were intended to try to build a highway from Kozina v Koper to turn over to the Italian company Impressa Grassetto, which has already proved to be a nonconsistence and poor performer; in Trojans they have barely 20% of the programme, they use extremely poor material, so there are also accidents from which one almost claimed the life of one worker. Another thing, Impressa Grassetto threw on the road a Slovenian company from Trbovlje, this contractor was crossed out and hired Slovak workers, not Slovenian - Slovak, so there were no misunderstandings. In short, the Slovenian National Party advocates the establishment of a parliamentary supervisory committee to oversee this spending of budgetary resources. We are convinced that the current committee is not enough, it has to be specific, because billions and billions and billions of Slovenian tolars are disappearing here. In the basic principle, because we are aware in the Slovenian National Party that we cannot without roads, we support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Today is Valentine's Day, and I want all the ladies in this House to have a happy Valentine's Day, and all the colleagues as well. At least that's the habit elsewhere in the world. It is sad that we are here to consider this proposal for a law that is, in fact, very sad. When a man looks, especially at our program of roads, he thinks the ship is without compass, without rudder, and without everything. We lie to ourselves about what we're going to do, lie to those who have the least of it, and last December there was an article saying, "How are the Pomurians going to go to the European Union?" So those of you from there should jump on their feet and start asking questions and asking the government what's wrong with our road program. One wonders because we don't have a road strategy, we don't have a country strategy. There's a whole bunch of things floating around the sea, and it's not going anywhere, and we don't do anything. It would be necessary for the government to be sober here and to draw up a plan to oversee the entire building and also to tell us Members and all citizens where all this money has gone. I had a chance to talk to people on Dars once a year ago, and I saw it was a complete mess. Although I was only interested in the legal situation of some matters, it was obvious that all other things were much more important, political, etc., than let us take a look at some of the problems that this road map has caused. And I don't think there's really any need for us not to imagine what's going on here. We could list a number of similar problems in our country that no one cares about. And no one - who thinks they care - has any real control, no real report, and also reasons for how they implement their programmes. I think it's time for this to change, and one would like to see those Members here who live in places where their roads have been promised for all eternity, but nothing has happened so far, set foot in the day and try to move this thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Jerovšk, Mr Jelinčič's procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Given that Mr Rupel is in the way of meeting Members to listen to the debate, I would suggest that we conclude this debate today, even if it is just a few minutes. I didn't want to say this before because it was me who was talking, but when the fellow Member spoke, I saw that the focus had completely shifted to the other side and therefore I suggest that we stop a few minutes earlier today and leave it to the Minister to speak peacefully with fellow Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I think that we will continue until 6 p.m. and that the Members are no longer disturbed. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I also agree that this is an extremely important law that should allow for the normal construction of the Slovenian highway programme. The second paragraph of Article 1 reads: "This law provides for the means of providing and spending resources for the construction of state roads as defined in the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia". But of course, given this, I'm wondering if we know what we're spending our money on. Indeed, the national programme has been a list of wishes for several years rather than a binding document for the Slovenian government. The national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia is not being implemented. And for that reason, of course, I wonder whether this is really an authentic law that is intended for this purpose. However, this national programme for the construction of motorways should be implemented. And if it did, we wouldn't be driving through traffic jams on the route from Maribor to Ljubljana, but we would be driving all the way down the highway. And this trend will seem to continue; because, for five years I have been in the National Assembly, five years is a priority, say, the Pragersko Oblast. However, every year, at the end of the year, the Ministry comes with a programme to allocate funds elsewhere. Unless the budget is already fixed as in the two-year programme, there has been a re-deployment. The same stepmotherly relationship is enjoyed by the whole Eastern Slovenia. Slovenska Bistrica - Ptuj - Ormož - Croatian border is not built at any stage. The same road of Maribor-Prekmurje. At the same time, in this National Assembly, the coalition majority is concerned that this is the case. Last week, I think we had the election of the Dars Supervisory Board here, and although the Prime Minister has not assured the parliamentary question many times that he will take up and ensure the parity of all political parties or representatives of all political parties on the Dars Supervisory Committee, where the Slovenian budget is virtually spinning. This past week was not the case again, we were played again, and again Dars or the Slovenian government avoided these funds being controlled; that the construction of the national highway construction programme would be supervised. My predecessors have otherwise pointed to this same fact. Whose hands do we place these funds in? These funds are used to a large extent or disappearing in a curious way. The consequences are suffered by all Slovenian citizens because they are suffocating in traffic. Instead of, I don't know, 80 kilometers per year of freeway, it's built substantially less and this trend is increasing. Years ago, my colleague, my fellow Member, Hvalic, found that the control post in the construction of the highway was too high a percentage to bring in Swedish supervisors if they trusted him with these funds, and they would be "war" rich. Last year this percentage increased and I must say that the newly built road Krtina-Ljubljana is poorly built, that it is wavering at the opening, that there is no section of the highway that would be so poorly built as the new highway Krtina-Ljubljana. Completely clear, completely, layman in the construction area is clear that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u122	Jerovšek, please don't "tulli" your hour to finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u123	[[I'll finish.]] that it was not built here on the basis of professional standards or that the funds used were not invested in this road. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Jeroshvek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u125	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-14-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. Since it is 6 p.m., the second reading of the bill will be done tomorrow at 10 a.m., as we continue work as per the programme, and then in order to continue until 2 p.m. Thank you all very much. On behalf of women, Dr. Bernick, thank you so much for the congratulations.
