ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Member! Dear fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 85 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, I would like to inform you which colleagues and colleagues will not be with us today because of other obligations. These are colleagues of Celigoj, Jakič, Kacin, Kavčič, Kremjar, Školč, Weber, Rupar, Peterle and colleague Barovic. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, and Minister of Finance, Mag. Anton Ropa and other members and members of the Slovenian government. I welcome everything in our common name to an extraordinary session. We will proceed to the establishment of the agenda of the 22nd extraordinary session. You received the draft agenda with reference to 11.10. this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I did not receive any proposals for withdrawal and an extension of the agenda after the deadline of business with my colleague and colleague. That is why we are moving to a vote on the agenda. Do you have a procedural, Comrade Visac? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u2	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to explain my vote on the agenda. Thank you very much. We will vote in favour of today's agenda because of our business duties or our vote in favour of the parliamentary group. However, we would like to say that we do not agree with the way in which the state budget is presented, so we have also taken the initiative - regardless of the business arrangements or it is possible to interpret them as such - that the representatives of the central bank and the other two state treasury offices are also involved in today's meeting, namely, the Pension and Disability Insurance Office and the Health Insurance Institute. Our initiatives, despite the practice of past years, did not want to and did not want to listen. Why did we make such a proposal? It is generally known that the state budget is the most important and the highest act of policy management of any government or state. It is an act in which it must reflect concrete data and information from individual policies such as fiscal policy, monetary policy, pricing policy, income policy and other policies. Most importantly, this budget reflects the coherence of these most important policies. Since the central bank is responsible for the management of monetary policy and in this respect for price stability, it is common for democratic, parliamentary democracy to be represented jointly by government and central bank representatives. Slovenia does not meet one of the most important Maastricht criteria, which is the criteria on the upper limit of inflation, one year before the desired entry into the European Community. The responsibility for meeting this criterion lies with both the Bank of Slovenia and the Government. Which more or less today Members from the budget documents cannot clearly understand, at least what we should hear, is that both the Governor of the Bank and the representative and the Prime Minister Drnovšek claim that these policies are harmonised and that Slovenia will also meet this Maastricht criterion at the end of the year. Thus, two state-owned cash registers, such as the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute and the Health Insurance Office, are also closely linked to the State budget. Therefore, they should also hear from their representatives today whether their budget documents are truly in line with the draft state budget and, in particular, whether they contain real assessments. And in such circumstances, in our view, the National Assembly certainly has no basis for taking responsibility for the adoption of the State budget. In short, it is clear from this explanation that we are missing here today both the representative of the Bank of Slovenia and the representative of the two most important or very important treasury states, so this presentation will be somewhat modest and distorted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u3	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. I am grateful that you have expressed your disagreement or a critical view of the rules of procedure so patiently, and in the same way I would like to give you the following explanation. Mindful of the possibility that - and not for the first time - some of the opposition may raise a question at a meeting of the National Assembly concerning the presence of some others whose Rules of Procedure are not referred to in the presentation of the draft State budget, I myself have opened the question to the College and have said that it is not possible to read, at least in my opinion, the third paragraph of Article 156, which says: "The budget memorandum and the draft state budget shall be presented at the meeting of the National Assembly by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. There is no debate on this presentation." Well, knowing that someone was going to ask a question, I wanted the leaders of the parliamentary groups to get to know my point of view. In addition, it was said that if anyone objects to such an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, he could make a proposal for a reference to the Business Commission, which has also happened. Today, the Business Commission took office and confirmed this interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. As of today, there is no doubt that you will present the budgetary memorandum and the draft state budget of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. If I am allowed to say so, then the working bodies will have this discretion that, if they so wish, they may invite them to their meetings - and to the debate - including the Governor of the Bank and the main people of both cash registers to participate in the debate in a qualified manner. Does any of the other members of Parliament, colleagues, colleagues want to explain their voice? We will vote on the draft agenda. Please, Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, or ministers and ministers. Allow me, on behalf of the Group of Members, to express my own concern about the consideration of such an important document governing the fundamental economic policy in the Republic of Slovenia. Our parliamentary group has proposed that the relevant working body of the National Assembly be defined in accordance with the requirements for the participation of representatives or directors of both institutions and the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia in such a document. Given that both institutions are budget consumers in the middle of the budget, it is expected that they can also speak to us. The business rules do not say who should be present, but because of the importance of the issue, this should happen, particularly in these times, as we are now facing, with the issue we are facing, this would be minimal for these representatives to participate. Given that these proposals have not been fulfilled, of course they have been ignored, we have no choice but to declare obstruction in accordance with Article 95 of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will not participate in this presentation. The business arrangement simply says that there is no discussion about this. These are the key reasons why we base this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer, your conduct is legitimate and we will respect it. Let me say this again because you've opened up the same subject as you, Comrade Magi. The vision that the question of inviting me to a meeting is not a matter of my discretion or political will, but is regulated by the rules of procedure that I am obliged to follow. As a matter of fact, I also opened this question at a college meeting. The Business Commission has decided. I understand that you are not satisfied, you have this right, but it seems important to me that I may say this and that it will not be accepted as a political position that there is sufficient room for business with provisions, that the possibility that the State Assembly at work and at the final session, starting with the presentations of the groups of Members, can give careful consideration to the acts relating to the adoption of the State budget. Mr Kebrich wanted to do it on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, your ministers and ministers and colleagues! In our Group of Members, we discussed this problem, which has arisen or has been brought to college. We have listened very much to such and other opinions, and we are pleased to have before us today the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Commission, as it is, and as such we must and must respect it. Therefore, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. Mr Peče wanted to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. You have the floor, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u9	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u10	Let the ignorant Members, those Members you will support, be pleased because you obviously do not know what you will support today in the form of a point at the 22nd extraordinary session. The meaning of the debate, as suggested by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and its consequences for all those who depend on the state budget in this country, I regret to inform you, is a lot of people depending on the budget. This same budget that we are changing. What instructions are given to these users if we change or change numbers, i.e. cash amounts in this budget from month to month. This points to the image of public finances; those finances that you claim to be fixed, that they are firm and hidden reality, that public finances are or are in an unenviable position. In the Slovenian National Party, it seems completely pointless for us to call today's agenda a proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but it would be more appropriate for us to call it information on this. If Members are not to discuss this, if we have called today only because of the so-called “photo session” and perhaps the Premier Drnovšek, and according to our or my assessment of the alpha and the omega of Slovenian negatism of Tonet Rope.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u11	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u12	We're not going anywhere with this way of working. In the Slovenian National Party, at least we propose, if you have not already been so constructive, Mr President, and the ruling coalition, that those involved in macro-economic activities should also be invited to attend the meeting, especially in the monetary area, to at least change the title of today's item and say that it is essentially information that the National Assembly will not be able to influence at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Look, my fellow Peca and respectable colleague and colleague! In the new Rules of Procedure, we have a special chapter on the procedure for adopting the State budget. In accordance with the provisions of this procedure, I have also convened this extraordinary meeting. I would like to remind fellow Members and colleagues that on Friday at the College meeting we have also adopted a timetable for the consideration of the draft amendments to the 2003 budget and 2004 budget. In addition to the fact that the new Rules of Procedure gave a substantial weight to the parent or the competent working bodies, I should point out that the National Assembly, my colleague Peca, will consider the proposals for acts to adopt the supplementary draft State budget on Wednesday 11 December, Thursday 12 and, if necessary, Friday 13. 12th, this item will begin with presentations of the views of the groups of Members. The Rules of Procedure provide that parliamentary groups shall then be available for 20 minutes. Does any other group of Members wish to explain their voice? Comrade Podobnik, you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we regret that this is how we begin the debate on the budgetary memorandums for two years and the budget for 2004. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed agenda for today's extraordinary meeting. As we say, we regret talking about these issues here. I also supported the new rules of procedure and the majority of colleagues in the Slovenian People's Party. To be honest with him, we will recognise that we Members have almost lost the most right in the area of the adoption of the state budget. I also personally deeply regret today's debate on the Rules of Procedure Commission. I only had two hours to prepare myself for an explanation of this issue. I couldn't consult with my colleagues, not the experts. I have proposed an amended proposal, which is a business proposal: give us at least a few days of time to turn to those for whom the Rules of Procedure are responsible - that is, to our legislative and legal service. You voted me out. If the National Assembly has any practice that it can be proud of in front of Europe, it is this that, in addition to the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, they have also spoken: the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the Director of both the Treasury, Health and Pensions. Be proud of this practice! It was a good practice, and we changed it. We regret that. It is true that at times the governor overshadowed the Minister and the Finance Minister, but he commented on the event. And thus gained democracy, the Slovenian State and the National Assembly, which became a space, a key place in the debate on the state budget. Colleagues and colleagues, today the Rules of Procedure Commission has adopted an illogical explanation. She said that the presentation of the budget and the budgetary memorandum in the National Assembly should not be discussed at all. And there's no debate. And I asked three times: When can we even discuss this? The plenary National Assembly may only discuss, in accordance with the rules of procedure in force, an updated draft budget. Tell me where in Europe it is possible that budgets, memoranda cannot be discussed in this place on the stone of Slovenian democracy. This was the wrong preparation of the Rules of Procedure. And the President, it's not true that working bodies have such powers! Business bodies, other than finance, have no jurisdiction. It's only financial that has all the power. Don't talk about working bodies because they don't have that authority! I regret, I regret that we regret to join the Group of Members that this is an incentive to join the adoption of the State budget this year. Bad start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u15	I think it is also right to say critical points of view to the Rules of Procedure, even though we have talked about it and accepted it. Now we have to respect him. That goes for me, too. The previous Rules of Procedure contained a provision, which is the case with Coll. Podobnik, which defined that meetings of the Assembly may be attended by persons invited by the President of the National Assembly and that the present Rules of Procedure no longer contain this provision. The provision of Rule 156 of the Rules of Procedure is clear and sets out who is present in the presentation of the budget. Does one of the parliamentary groups want to explain their vote in the vote on the agenda? I'm guessing it's none of them. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. Peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote. We vote on the agenda. 64 present. 50 for, 4 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the agenda of the 22nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is at the presentation of the 2003 and 2004 budget memo and the 2004 budget proposal for the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2004. This is the first act of dealing with and adopting the 2004 State budget in the National Assembly, at the discretion of Article 156, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance shall present the budgetary memorandum and the draft state budget. I ask the Prime Minister, Dr Janez Drnovska, to present the 2003 and 2004 budgetary memorandum and the draft budget for 2004. Prime Minister Drnovšek, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr President. You have before you the draft budgets for the next two years. In their preparation, the government has taken into account the latest forecasts of economic growth not only in Slovenia but also in the world, but especially in the countries of the European Union, which are our most important economic partners. The budgets are based on the assumptions on economic growth and other macroeconomic indicators of both domestic institutions that are preparing forecasts of economic developments, as well as the latest forecasts of the International Monetary Fund, which, in its autumn forecast to the Member States of the European Union, predicts 0.6% lower economic growth than in spring and, in Slovenia, about 0.4% lower growth. The 2003 budget is thus based on a forecast of 3.7% economic growth and 4.1% economic growth for 2004. Then I would like to comment that the economic situation of the last period in the world is very unpredictable, that the economic recession lasts for a very long time, as all the world's institutions have predicted, and that it is happening, if you follow international reports, that international media are constantly changing forecasts by virtually all economic institutions in the world and, of course, also by predictions by virtually all countries predicting their economic growth and their budgets. There is also a great potential for change. Some factors in the global economy and policy are such that there can be sudden changes that can either affect the price of oil on the world market or on a wide range of other factors. When and how this will happen and how long the changes will last, of course it would be impossible to predict at this time. Thus, budgets, of course, must also continue to be accounted for with a certain degree of flexibility and, if necessary, rapid adaptation if such movements occur. This applies both to Slovenia and practically to all the world economies at this time. The development orientation and reality of public finances contribute to the re-stabilization of investment activities at a relatively high level. Last year's introduction of two-year budget planning facilitates the planning of multi-annual infrastructure investment programmes and promotes greater efficiency and shorter time to activate investments. Let me also mention the significant acceleration of housing savings in 2004. The government has been actively implementing the adopted housing investment strategy for several years now through the Housing Fund. As an important fact, 5200 rental non-profit and social and market housing will be built over the next three years. The main objectives are to increase the quality and, in particular, lower prices from the current market. This will increase the availability of apartments, either for purchase or for rent. The estimated total investment in housing is more than 98 billion tolars, from which the state will provide approximately half of the value. In addition to making housing more affordable, the said housing programme will have beneficial macroeconomic effects, particularly for young people. While maintaining relatively high levels of real growth in exports of goods and services, it is realistic to expect the continuation of favourable export-import movements over the next two years and the maintenance of the approximately balanced current part of the balance of payments at the increasing level of coverage of exports. In favour of optimistic assumptions regarding the movement of indicators in the field of international exchange, the data also suggests that in the first half of this year Slovenia’s market share has increased in the 15 major trading partners. In the first seven months of this year, according to the same period, exports of goods and services to countries of the former Yugoslavia increased by a good 12 per cent, to countries of the former Soviet Union by 11 per cent and to countries of the CEFTE area by 11.5 per cent. Current developments indicate that the Slovenian economy will also be successful in compensating the economic downturn of export revenues on the European Union's major and demanding markets, while maintaining a favourable regional structure for the export of goods and services. The regional structure of the export of goods and services to Slovenia for 2001 shows that Slovenia exports 62 per cent to stable and demanding markets in the countries of the European Union, to the countries of the former Yugoslavia 17 per cent and to the countries of the former Soviet Union a good 4 per cent of total exports of goods and services. The regional structure for the export of goods and services, reflecting still untapped potentials, allows optimism and stability in the planning of export-import flows in the future two-year budget period. Therefore, the indicators or growth forecasts on which both budgets are based are based are based mainly on two assumptions: one is a considerable investment during this period and the other is an assessment that despite the tight international situation Slovenia can continue to build on the export economy and that exports will continue to represent the towing locomotive of our economy. Dear Members and Members! Regardless of the economic cycle phase, in view of the current recession in the world, the coordination of economic policies, price, income and fiscal policies of the Government and the monetary and exchange rate policies of the Bank of Slovenia are crucial to ensuring the stability of public finances. Such coordination takes place between the two institutions and, although the government has a broader range of objectives, it is aware of the importance of reducing inflation and carries out its part of the activity in this common direction. By agreeing to move controlled prices, which gradually reduces their contribution to inflation, monitoring wage growth in the public sector and with restrictive public financial policy in terms of reducing initially planned budgetary expenditure, the government is trying to help alleviate inflationary pressures. Further structural reforms will also contribute to reducing inflation and increasing export competitiveness. The relevant exchange rate policy before entering the exchange rate mechanism before entering the monetary union and later into the euro system can contribute significantly to the positive effects of the restructuring process of the Slovenian economy and to favourable developments in the area of cost competitiveness. The coordination of anti-inflational economic policy and exchange rate policy is particularly important under tighter global economic conditions as international competition increases with lower economic growth. The agreement between the Government and the Bank of Slovenia on the sterilisation of NLB's purchase and its financial management also contributes to stabilising the terms of management and maintaining the planned exchange rate policy. The 2003 budget is prepared at the assumption of 5.1% of the average annual inflation. This is, on the one hand, a restrictive assumption that the government has avoided putting too high inflation expectations into place in the preparation of the budget, while at the same time putting together all the policies mentioned above a realistic objective. The Government and Banka Slovenije will also lead a coordinated anti-inflation policy within the limits of their respective powers and options in the future. The consistent logic of the ongoing adjustment of the fiscal framework to macroeconomic options is an economic and political reality, which significantly allows for the necessary flexibility of economic policies in modern economic conditions and contributes to the continuous development of European management conditions. Despite the revision of the assumptions of the macroeconomic framework and the resulting rebalancing of state budgets for the years 2002 and 2003 and the 2004 draft budget, the government has consistently pursued, in addition to budgets, the main objectives of the 10-year period since independence: membership in the European Union and in relation to NATO, which are in the final phase. Dear Members and Members. The proposed programme classification of the revised budget for 2003 and the draft budget for 2004, together with the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, makes it possible to implement the memoranda of origin of budgetary priorities in the year of entry into the European Union. In terms of promoting balanced economic development and further convergence, in addition to the 17.5% real growth in investments in 2003 and the increase in resources for integration into the European Union, the increased volume of resources for science and technological development in both years applies to the European Union. The budget resources for science and technological development will increase by 7.1 per cent in 2003. Education is allocated 3 per cent more budget in real terms each year. There is also an increase in budget resources to promote and support economic activity, namely by 7.2 per cent in 2003 and by 10.7 per cent in 2004. In this context, the real growth of the budget to promote or increase the competitiveness of the economy is 13.2 per cent in 2003 and 50.7 per cent in 2004. We are working to further reduce unemployment through the implementation of an active employment policy, although the unemployment rate in Slovenia is already among the lowest in Europe. The budget allocations for active employment policy will increase by a further 2.8 per cent in 2003 and 4.3 per cent in 2004. The unemployment rate in Slovenia in 2001 is lower than in the 15 countries, which, according to the ILO methodology, recorded a 7.6% unemployment rate in 2001, and in Slovenia we have already reduced this draft to 6.4 and continue to fall. Special attention is paid to social protection programmes where the real growth rates are 7.1 per cent in 2003 and 1.2 per cent in 2004. In the context of health care, we allocate more budgetary resources mainly to investment investments in hospitals where the budget will actually increase by 35.5 per cent in 2003 and 12 per cent in 2004. Total healthcare resources increase by 13.4 per cent in 2003 and 7.4 per cent in 2004. Health is certainly one of the fundamental priorities of the 2003 and 2004 budgets. The increase in budgetary resources in this activity is also accompanied by efforts to implement a major reform of the entire health system, which is primarily a means of ensuring stable funding, including the use of internal reserves in health care, and in particular to ensure its modernisation and the best possible service for citizens or patients. I am confident that the health reform project will be one of the main projects in the coming years. In the area of pension protection, the legal level of rights is maintained. The draft budgets and the 2003 budget implementation law are also accompanied by changes in the alignment of pensions with inflation. If necessary, coordination will be possible twice a year, allowing stable planning of pension fund expenditure. Budget allocations for local self-government are increasing. In accordance with the adopted motorway programme, road infrastructure continues to be built. Particular attention is paid to agriculture, forestry and fisheries, where budget resources grow by 4 per cent in 2003 and 6 per cent in 2004. Special attention is also given to the protection of the environment and cultural heritage. The necessary resources are provided for the professionalisation of the military and preparations for NATO membership. The budget resources for defence thus increase by 12.4 per cent and 9 per cent over the next two years, realistically. We found rationalisation in the expenditure on goods and services, i.e. in the material costs of budget consumers, where the planned budgetary resources in the amended 2003 national budget are reduced by around 6.3 billion tolars; that is, so much of the internal savings are intended to compensate slightly lower growth than originally envisaged - without prejudice to fundamental priorities. By continuing to privatise state assets, the state will also withdraw from the economy in the future, and budget documents will also be accompanied by an accurate programme for the sale of state property. Dear Members and Members. The budgets ahead of you are also following the objective of balanced public finances by maintaining the current deficit below one percent of gross domestic product. In 2003, the projected current budget deficit of 0.99% of GDP and in 2004 is 0.97%. The average budget deficit in the European monetary union area was 1.4 per cent of GDP in 2001. In 2001 they had the largest budget deficits: Portugal 4.1%, Germany 2.8% and Italy 2.2%. As we know, in 2002 these and some other members of the European Union continue to foresee such or even higher budget deficits. This reflects the economic recession in the world and, in particular, the problems facing the European Union or its many members. That is why, in the European Union, they have been looking for new public financial solutions and talking about more flexible criteria for sanctioning non-compliance with the Growth and Stability Pact and nominal Maastricht criteria. This is to make it more clear that our budgetary efforts certainly have an appropriate international comparison or that they are positive compared to the European "performances" and that we are achieving significant growth in many areas, many priorities, which I consider to be a solid budgetary achievement. In the preparation of the 2003 and 2004 budgets, Slovenia faces an important innovation, namely membership in the European Union. Indeed, the accession to the European Union envisaged for 2004 will have an important impact on the state budget of the Republic of Slovenia and public finances in general. Already in the 2004 budget, the budget we are presenting today. While it is true that our country's and the European Union's budgets have been interconnected in the last few years, when our country has received different forms of pre-accession assistance, the extent and quality of these relations will change to a completely different level when it enters the European Union. As a full member of the European Union, Slovenia will be entitled to draw on the European Union budget for those economic policies implemented at the level of the European Union as a whole, in particular the Common Agricultural Policy and the Structural and Cohesion Fund. On the other hand, under the current legal order, we will have to contribute some of the resources to the common European budget to finance these common policies. The experience of previous enlargements of the European Union shows that the volume of net financial flows between the budget of the new Member State and the budget of the European Union is generally very limited in the first year of membership. The reasons for this are both on the European Union budget drawback side, which is still relatively low after membership due to objective constraints, as well as on the European Union budget side, where the rule is to grant new members a transitional period in which they gradually assume their full new financial commitments to the European Union budget. Negotiations on the financial package for Slovenia's integration into the European Union for the period 2004-2006 are still under way. We are counting on it to be completed by mid-December of this year, when Slovenia's public financial position in the initial period of our membership of the European Union is also to be fully and fully known. This means, of course, that, at this point, it is still not possible to predict the extent and structure of the funds we will receive from the European Union budget during this period, nor the amount of the funds we will be paying to the European Union budget during these years. What can be said today with a great degree of reliability is that Slovenia's net budgetary position towards the European Union in the first years of membership will not deteriorate compared to the last year before membership. This means, in particular, that our country will by no means be a net payer in the budget of the European Union during the period 2004-2006 or that the inflows from the budget of the European Union to Slovenia will be higher than our payments to the European budget at least for the amount of pre-accession assistance that our country is expected to receive in the year before accession, that is in 2003. This is the current position advocated by both the Commission of the European Union and the European Parliament, as well as the majority of the members of the European Union. However, Slovenia's inclusion in the European Union will not only be reflected in our country's budget in the form of substantially increased and qualitatively modified financial flows, which will take place between the two budgets, but will have a much broader impact on it and on public finances in general. In fact, integration into the European Union means that the implementation of policies which, pending integration into the European Union into the full jurisdiction of the State, becomes an integral part of the acquis of the European Union. This will result in the necessity of restructuring part of budgetary expenditure, in particular those relating to financing agriculture, development and internal policy. Ladies and gentlemen, today I can say that Slovenia is a financially stable country, which is also economically successful, in its latest progress report, the European Commission also acknowledges. The European Commission is usually critical not only of candidates in its reports but also of its own members. Even after we are members of the European Union, the European Commission will draw up a report every year, as it has been in recent years, when we have been candidates for membership in the European Union. In doing so, we note that we are one of the first countries to make a two-year budget, and our assessment is that it has proved to be a positive and additional contribution to the stability and predictability of our financial environment. For many years, we have achieved levels of economic growth higher than the average of the European Union countries. The real growth of the social product in Slovenia in the period 1997-2001 exceeds the average real growth of the social product in the 15th European Union by about one percent in each year to up to 2.5 percentage points in each year. The latter also illustrates the persistent growth of both Slovenian social product per capita in US dollars by purchasing power and the growth of social product in general. In 2000, as we know, the social product was already 16,400 dollars per capita in purchasing power. In recent years, according to our assessment, we have managed to maintain social, economic and environmental sustainability, while, according to estimates of the growth of the social product for the second quarter of 2002, the recovery of the Slovenian economy is faster than is the case for "euro area" countries. The revised Eurostat Social Product Growth Assessment for the second quarter shows that the social product of the European Monetary Union countries increased by 0.4% in the second quarter of 2002, i.e. only 0.7% compared to the second quarter of 2001. Comparative data for Slovenia is 3.2 per cent increase in the second quarter, and we can also reject criticism that we are only adapting budgets to the global recession downwards so that economic policy does nothing to promote domestic economic growth. In spite of all the higher rates of growth in Slovenia than elsewhere in the world, or as in Europe, of course, the result is, of course, to a great extent, the resilience and flexibility of our economy, which can also be found in acute situations. I think that, even with the 2003 and 2004 budget, we are setting up such frameworks that we can continue the fight for higher competitiveness, for survival, even in the context of the global recession, even though we expect and hope that world movements will only start to improve, which in any case will have a beneficial impact on our growth rates, on our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The development focus of the two-year budget, focusing on science, education and technological development, the promotion and support of economic activity, is what gives a stable financial framework, and the implementation of active employment policies and other social, health and pension protection programmes has ensured a balanced future development of the country within a longer period, i.e. a longer period. It is right to discuss the development issues of Slovenia both in this period ahead of us - 2003 and 2004 - and beyond, but I estimate that we have succeeded in pursuing and also putting a large number of priorities in the 2003 and 2004 budget, and if we also reach these targets, I think that balanced development will continue and economic growth in Slovenia will continue in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for introducing both documents. The Minister of Finance will now have an additional presentation, mag. Tone Rop. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u18	Dear Members, honourable Members, the esteemed President! The draft amendments to the 2003 state budget and the 2004 budget are prepared in accordance with the new system regulation of public finances, which provides for the annual adoption of budgets for two years: the adoption of the budget for the following year and the adoption of the budget for the year following. As the Prime Minister has said, our experience so far is good. We believe that the preparation and adoption of budgets for two years clearly contributes to the easier, more transparent and more efficient management of public finances. The introduction of the budget for two years has undoubtedly increased the transparency of the effects of the adoption of new public financial commitments, increased selectivity in the adoption of new commitments and has made them more difficult to accept and therefore reduces them, increased the reality, in particular the long-term development planning of budgetary users, and greatly minimised the possibility of temporary budget funding, as shown by the fact that in the last two years, we are very regular and in good time and in good time to deliver draft budgets to the National Assembly. Also in Slovenia's latest progress report, the European Commission underlines that Slovenia, through the introduction of budgets for two years, together with the annual preparation of medium-term macro-fiscal projections, has taken a qualitative step forward in budgetary management. Both draft budgets form an integral part of the implementation of the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia, whose main objectives are long-term economic growth, the implementation of the necessary structural reforms, investment in modern development factors, the gradual reduction of inflation and the gradual reduction of the public financial deficit. The budgets are an integral part of the implementation of the strategy for the dynamic, competitive economic development of Slovenia and of greater national, social and individual security, the fruits of which will benefit all Slovenian regions and, in particular, all Slovenian citizens. Over the coming years, we will therefore significantly increase investment in technological development, knowledge, health, safety, transport, regional development, housing, culture and social security services. This year and the next two years will be crucial for the successful integration of Slovenia into the European Union and NATO. Successful and competitive integration into international integration is a fundamental challenge and a challenge in the period ahead. The 2003 and 2004 draft budgets fully support these tasks. They enable the full implementation of both a higher level of security for all citizens and full support for the competitive entry of the Slovenian economy and the country into European economic and political space. The draft amending budget for 2003 and the draft budget for 2004 are based on the latest estimates of economic developments at home and in the world. Slovenia has been achieving higher economic growth than the developed economy over the past ten years - this is also seen from this table, which is slightly less visible - in particular the Member States of the European Union, and yet, due to the strong involvement of our economy in the international economic growth trend in Slovenia, is the same direction as it is for these economies. The latest estimates of the International Monetary Fund show that the recovery of the world's most important economies, the US, Japan and the European Union, will be slower than the original spring forecasts. In this context, the movements in the European Union countries, which are our most important external trading partners, are particularly important for Slovenia. Recent estimates for the European Union countries show that their economic growth will be slower this year than it was estimated in the spring - 1.1 above 1.5%; it will be stronger in 2003 but less than originally estimated - 2.3 earlier 2.9. It is also important that growth forecasts for our most important external trading partners in the European Union have been reduced. Thus, the 2003 autumn forecasts changed for Germany from 2.7% to 2%, France from 3% to 2.3%, and Italy from 2.9% to 2.3%. Although it is a slightly better picture, as far as dynamics are concerned, in the eastern and south-eastern markets, Russia, Yugoslavia and Croatia, which represent a market niche for the Slovenian economy only to a certain extent, allowing faster economic growth and growth in exports. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia responded to the changed circumstances by adjusting the level of budget expenditure planned for 2003 and 2004. However, it is essential that the fundamental priorities of budgetary expenditure for the next two years remain unchanged. Conversely, greater selectivity and the necessary rationalisation of individual expenditure are even clearer and visible budgetary priorities over the next two years. The main objectives of the public financial policy over the next two years are: to actively adapt the country's expenditure to the available revenue, thereby achieving a gradual reduction of the public financial deficit; to set a target structural deficit, with possible application of a predetermined and limited cyclical deficit of the budget in an unfavourable economic situation, allowing, to a limited extent, the automatic settlement of cyclical movements and thus the management of the government's anti-cyclical economic policy; and to reduce the costs of public debt financing, taking into account the criteria of liquidity, security and profitability. The draft budgets for 2003 and 2004 clearly reflect the determination of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to achieve the objectives thus set. With the new estimated economic growth for 2003 and 2004 - 3,7 and 4,1 - the projected real growth in budgetary expenditure for these two years is lower than gross domestic product growth, which means that the share of government expenditure in gross domestic product will decrease over the next two years. In the next two years, however, the share of budgetary and public deficits and public debt in gross domestic product also decreased, reducing public debt financing costs and releasing the necessary funds for more ambitious financing of budgetary development priorities. The estimated total government revenue of all four public funds will be 2,375 billion in 2003. In 2004, they are expected to increase by 187 billion or 7.2% more compared to the previous year. The share of total government revenue in the gross domestic product will thus be 43% in 2003 and 42.7% in 2004, representing approximately the same level as in 2001. The total public expenditure will be 2,440 billion sitt in 2003 and 2,616 billion sitt in 2004, i.e. 7.4% more than in 2003. Their share of gross domestic product will reach 44.2% in 2003 and 43.6% in 2004, which is one percentage point lower than this year. The total government deficit will thus amount to 1.18% of gross domestic product in 2003 and 0.9% of gross domestic product in 2004. The public deficit will thus gradually decrease over the next two years. The estimated total budget revenue in 2003 will be 1.395 billion sieves and 106 billion sieves more in 2004. Thus, in 2003 the budget revenue will be 25.3% of gross domestic product and in 2004 25% of gross domestic product, which is equally achieved in 2001. The most important budgetary resource will also be domestic taxes on goods and services with 57% share in all budget revenues over the next two years. Domestic taxes on goods and services will be the highest-represented value added tax and excise duty, which will together represent about 52% of all budget revenues. Unchanged value added tax rates are foreseen over the next two years. In 2003, we expect an increase in non-taxable resources so that their share of all budget revenues will increase by 1 percentage point, in particular at the expense of a single inflow of revenue at the end of the paying agency. Budget expenditure will amount to SIT 1,450 billion in the coming year and will be 8.7% higher than this year and 7.6% higher in 2004. Thus, total budget expenditure in 2003 will amount to 26.3% of gross domestic product and 25.9% of gross domestic product in 2004. Compared to this year, expenditure will therefore fall by 0.4% of gross domestic product. The budget proposal plans a budget deficit of 0.99% of gross domestic product in 2003 and 0.99% of gross domestic product in 2004. However, it should be pointed out that the projected volume of net indebtedness is significantly lower and is expected to be 37.8 billion and 0.69% of gross domestic product. The lower level of net indebtedness will mainly be due to more efficient management of the liquidity surpluses of the budgetary users under the newly introduced single treasury system, reflecting the successful implementation of the payment transport reform and will have a direct impact on the lower costs of public debt servicing. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present further in detail the draft amending budget for 2003 and the draft budget for 2004 following individual programming and functional frameworks. After the structural share, the largest share of budgetary expenditure in 2003 and 2004 will go to education programmes, 18.3 and 18.4 per cent in 2004, representing 4.8 per cent of gross domestic product. Over the next two years, state spending on education will increase by 17.4% and 42.5 billion, representing 6.8% real growth. In this context, funding for primary and secondary education is most increasing, for new higher education programmes, in particular in 2004, when the integral funding of both universities is introduced. More resources are also intended to finance postgraduate studies and adult education. Science and technological development funds will increase by about 20.7 per cent over the next two years, by 6.5 billion. Slovenia will implement programmes and activities to make research development a key factor in the economic development of the country. Within this, the most resources are devoted to scientific and research activities, faster transfer of knowledge from the research sphere to businesses and the development of the information and telecommunications system. Under this programme, however, the growth of funds in the field of technological development is the greatest. The volume of funds for these purposes will increase by 80.7 per cent in 2002, from 1.7 billion to 3.2 billion sitt. In addition to these funds, an additional 3 billion Slovenian Tolars for the Investment Fund are foreseen in the financial claims and investments account for the development of technologies. In the field of economy, structural changes are observed in 2003 within the main programmes, reflecting the priorities mainly in the area of the promotion, support and competitiveness of the economy and the equalisation of development differences between Slovenian regions. The entrepreneurship and competitiveness programme, which shows the highest growth in budget resources, aims to increase investment in technological development and innovation and to increase the competitiveness of businesses. In addition, the 2003 budget changes and the 2004 draft budget set out specific incentives for companies from textile and clothing and leather and footwear industries to invest in technological and marketing reconstruction. Additional funds are provided in the financial claims and investments account, amounting to 5.8 billion Slovenian tolars. The funds are earmarked for the Investment Fund for Southeast Markets, the Fund for Small Economy Development and Tourism Development and for the restructuring of enterprises. At the same time, the accelerated transformation of the defence system and the Slovenian army into an effective and rational and with security conditions and material and other resources co-ordinated organisation, while joining NATO, are among the important strategic objectives of the Slovenian state. Over the next two years, 25% of real growth for defence will enable the achievement of the so-called strategic objectives by accelerating the realization of three processes: the substantial greater connectivity of our defence system, in particular military organisations with military organisations and NATO standards, the continuation of defence reforms, the suspension of the mandatory system of replenishment and the transition to a professional army with a voluntary reserve in 2004. Transport infrastructure funds will increase by 12.9 billion Slovenian tolars over the next two years. Under the programme framework, funding is provided for an important part of investment transfers, in particular from the Slovenian motorway programme. Already with the 2002 budget, we have significantly increased the volume of the budget allocated to the investments of the highway programme and accelerated their construction. The volume of these funds was raised to 33 billion Slovenian tolars in 2002. In 2003 and 2004, 37 and 39 billion Slovenian tolars will be provided in the state budget. These funds, together with Dars' own and credit resources, will significantly accelerate the construction of the Slovenian road cross. In 2003, 29.6 km of motorways, which are already under construction, will continue to build 50.8 km of motorways and 10.7 km of fast roads and start construction of new 24 km motorways. In 2004, 49 km of motorways will be completed, the construction of 22.4 km of highways and 10 km of fast roads will continue and 16.2 km of new motorways will begin. In total, 79 km of motorways and 4.3 km of new motorway connections will be built over the next two years. The construction will continue on 73.2 km of highway and will start to build 16.2 km of highway. In the area of social policy, the budget shall maintain its strong social attitude for the next two years. The expenditure allocated by the State budget for social security is significantly increasing in both this year and the next two years. The increase is mainly due to the increased scope of rights under new legislation on family policy and social protection, which provides people with a higher level of individual monetary benefits. The overall main social protection programme is increasing by 13.5% in 2003, 6.1% in 2004 and 183.7 billion in 2004. Under this programme, increased funds are provided both for monetary benefits, for the operation of various services, public and non-governmental services that provide social security services and assistance to people and are intended for children, older persons, persons with disabilities, materially disadvantaged groups and other target groups. As a result of the increased censorship and the level of social assistance increased gradually in 2001 and will be fully implemented at the new level from 1.1.2003, funds for this purpose are increasing enormously. Thus, the volume of the year 2000, which amounted to 14.1 billion, increased to 29.2 billion in 2003. The largest share of resources within the social protection programme is allocated to children and families, namely SIT 98.5 billion in 2003 and SIT 104.1 billion in 2004. The implementation of the planned social policy is also becoming an important part of the government strategy over the next two years. We are confident that this, together with measures from other areas, in particular through measures in the fields of education, employment and housing policy, will allow Slovenia to remain in the European circle of countries with lower levels of poverty and a high level of social cohesion in the future. Spatial planning and housing resources increase by 21.9% over the next two years. Of these, 3 billion SITs are intended to promote housing construction. This appropriation is intended to cover the construction, renovation and maintenance of housing, housing and the implementation of the national housing programme, which provides for the construction of 1,800 social and non-profit dwellings in 2004. An additional 5 billion Slovenian tolars are provided for the recapitalisation of the housing fund in the financial claims and investments account. In the field of health care, the volume of resources increases by 19.2%) and in 2004 by 12.4%. In 2004, an additional 4.15 billion Slovenian Tolars and 33.9% more than this year will be allocated to health care from the state budget. In particular, investment investments in health will increase during this period. Thus, 15.8 billion SIT will be allocated from the state budget in the next two years, of which 7.3 in 2003 and 8.5 billion tolars in 2004. In particular, major investments in the oncology institute, paediatric clinic, hospital block upgrades and surgery in the clinical centre and the replacement construction of the neurological clinic are envisaged among the largest investments in healthcare. There will also be a significant increase in funding for preventive health programmes, with a total of 4.2 billion Slovenian tolars over the next two years, representing a good 16.6% annual increase, both in 2003 and 2004. Budgets for 2003 and 2004 are a good basis for the continuation and completion of agricultural reform. Over the next two years, agricultural expenditure will increase nominally by 21.8% and will increase by 11.6 billion in 2004 compared to this year. The key priority areas of agricultural expenditure are those that will significantly increase the absorption capacity of the agricultural and state budget after the entry into the European Union over the long term. On the basis of the budget adopted so far and under the successfully negotiated Slovenian requirements prior to the entry into the European Union, Slovenian farmers will receive subsidies at the same level as farmers in the European Union in 2004. The total value of all direct payments, so-called zero eco at aggregate level, will reach 75 per cent of European payments in 2003, with current around 58 per cent, and a system of upfront payments will be introduced, which is common in the Member States of the European Union. Compared to 2002, budget allocations are allocated to wider measures, with an increase of 5.8 per cent to stabilise the market together with direct payments. In 2004, it is based on the assumption that Slovenia will already be a member of the European Union, that all measures of the European Union's common agricultural policy will be implemented, including 100 % of the amount of direct payments in force in the European Union. Compared to 2003, the budget for wider market stabilisation measures is increased by 11.8 per cent, increasing direct payments by 39.6 per cent. Whether such a course will really be feasible depends also on pre-accession negotiations with the European Union. In the area of rural development, particular emphasis has been placed on the measures taken by the Slovenian agri-environment programme, the restructuring of agriculture and food and the development of rural areas and the restoration of villages. In 2003, an increase of 11.1 per cent is envisaged for these purposes and in 2004 36.8. Priority actions include support for restricted areas, which are increasing by 21.6 per cent in 2004. In 2004, the Slovenian agri-environment programme envisages the introduction of all other comparable measures with the European Union. In the area of agricultural restructuring and the food industry, the funds increase by 6.9 per cent in 2003, and in 2004 by 108.9 per cent, which is, of course, a measure of adapting the Slovenian budget in the field of agriculture to the European Union budget. Of course, other programmes are falling accordingly this year. In the area of culture, the volume of resources will increase in real terms over the next two years. Together, 13% more resources will be allocated in two years for this purpose. Important new programmes or projects are being introduced under cultural programmes. The establishment of non-profit and widely accessible multimedia centres in the field of Slovenia, the establishment of a non-profit bookmaking network and dedicated resources for professional training of cultural operators is envisaged. In the area of culture, investments are particularly increasing in 2003 and 2004. From 4.8 billion sitts this year to 5.9 billion sitts in 2004, representing 22% nominal growth. In the field of investment, it is envisaged to complete the construction of Viba film premises, to continue rebuilding and upgrading the buildings of the former Metelkova military station, which are designed to address the spatial distress of national museums and galleries and to begin the construction of a natural museum. Start renewal of SNG Drama Ljubljana and SNG Opera and Ballet Ljubljana. Dear Members and Members! In the economic structure of the expenditure of the State budget, the largest share remains intended for salaries and contributions. For these purposes, a little more than 30% of the total budget will also be spent during the 2003/2004 period. Expenditure for these purposes will increase by 17.8% nominally and realistically by 7.2. It is important that, over the next two years, the increase in wage expenditure will not be due in particular to wage increases for public sector employees, but rather to employment growth. Due to the planned professionalisation of the Slovenian army, over the next two years, 500 police officers would be employed in the project for the newly employed 1,200 soldiers and for the employment of police officers after the establishment of the Schengen border in the next two years. In the structure of expenditure for economic purposes, they represent an important part of expenditure on goods and services. In line with the project to rationalise the procurement of goods and services for the needs of direct and direct users of the wider sector, their growth will be significantly slowed over the next two years. In two years material costs will rise together in real terms only slightly more than 2%. Thus, their share in the structure of all budgetary expenditure will fall. The main objectives of the project are to increase the coherence and better organisation of all direct and direct users of public funds in procurement processes, to set standards for individual goods and services and to achieve savings through an improvement in the procurement process of around 30 billion by the end of 2004. The project was prepared following the example of some developed countries: the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Austria, which started similar projects to rationalise the procurement of materials and services years ago. If we give Austria, as Slovenia's most comparable country, at the start of the project two years ago, the average cost reduction was 10%. In Austria they still insist on this goal, even more so, in some areas they have achieved even significantly greater savings of 10%. The most important rationalisation and thus the release of resources for development purposes will be achieved in the next two years in the area of interest payments. This is expected to fall by 5.8% by 2004. Their structural share in the budget will fall from 6.02% to 5.34%, i.e. by 0.68 structural points. The basic instruments for lower interest payments, i.e. lower public debt servicing costs, are the use of privatisation purchases to reduce public debt and restructure public debt or to replace expensive government bonds with cheaper ones. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore adopted a specific programme for the consumption of the purchases for privatisation. The basic objective of the use of the purchase is such a reduction in public debt that will ensure long-term maximum fiscal effects while taking into account monetary effects and effects on the domestic banking overall financial system due to the optimal effects of debt on key macroeconomic aggregates. The implementation of the basic objective will help to directly increase the sustainability of the public financial balance by reducing the expenditure of the debt servicing budget, by slowing down the growth dynamics of the autonomous debt in indexation or debt reduction and indirectly contributing to meeting the convergence criterion of the long-term interest rate, i.e. further reducing inflation, further reducing domestic interest rates and further moving towards the application of nominal interest rates. The adoption of a purchase application programme is based on the implementation of a combined early repayment approach and the replacement of a certain part of the portfolio with new cheaper instruments. Two important criteria are used in assessing the relevance of early repayment or new debt swaps. In the event of early repayment of the debt, the amount of early repayment must be lower than the current value of existing debt payments and, if the debt is replaced by a new debt, the current value of the new debt must be lower than the current value of the existing debt. In this way, fiscal improvement will be achieved practically without national economic opportunity costs for inflation and economic growth, interest rates and exchange rates, and, of course, buying-in allows potential restructuring of the remaining debt because direct savings in interest rates can be significantly higher. The relative reduction in interest and expenditure on goods and services allows for a significant restructuring of budgetary expenditure over the next two years, both in the field of investment and in the field of subsidies. Investment expenditure will increase by 21.7% in the next two years, by 29 billion Slovenian tolars, in 2004 from 132.8 billion to 161 billion in 2004. In particular, the investment expenditure of the country will increase in the areas of safety, health, transport, technological development, housing, culture, energy and rural development. In 2003 and 2004, subsidies will also increase by 22%. This is particularly true in programmes that are important for achieving greater social security for all Slovenian citizens and in programmes that are important for supporting the development of the economy and agriculture when entering the European Union in a competitive manner. Complementary funds to the municipalities of the state budget will increase by 16.2% over the next two years. For 2003, the amount of eligible consumption per capita will be 85.948 tolars and is 8.33% higher than this year. This amount is designed to take into account the rise in prices of living needs and additional resources are added in specific areas. 830 tolars per capita are intended for the area of culture, 1200 tolars per capita for the area of municipal activities and 532 tolars per capita for the area of housing. For 2004, the amount of eligible consumption per capita is set at 89,902 tolar, which means an increase in the price of living. In both years, the resources allocated by the State budget to co-financing municipal investments are also important. In addition to those set out in the financial plans of individual ministries, an additional 4.4 billion for these purposes is included in the finance plan of the Ministry of Finance. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to present to you some of the key features of the planned financial plans of both social security funds for the next two years. The 2003 pension and disability insurance balance, as planned in addition to the 2003 budget, provides for a flat-rate income and expenditure of SIT 776.4 billion without deficit. For 2004, total revenue of Slovenia's 846 billion and expenditure of 838.9 billion were planned in the ZPIZ balance sheet. Thus, for 2004 the current surplus over the expenditure of ZPIZ is planned to be 7.1 billion tolls, which will be allocated to repay the part of the debt that ZPIZ leased in 2000. The planned revenue and expenditure of the PSI for the next two years shall take into account the expected demographic trends, the projected increase in the number of recipients of individual pension and disability benefits, i.e. pension beneficiaries, invalidity and other funds, benefits. In the next two years, the total number of pensioners will continue to increase at about 1.1% per year. Pensions, invalidity benefits and other pension benefits will also be aligned to the average wage growth in the Republic of Slovenia over the next two years, as provided for by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. However, the government is proposing to the National Assembly some changes in the pension valorisation mechanism. The proposed amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which introduces certain corrections to the pension coordination mechanism, provides two basic principles in the coming years: a more equitable annual pension coordination dynamic, which will be more consistent with the annual wage movement, a more balanced annual and annual growth of total pension and disability insurance expenditure over the coming years, which will prevent the cyclical fluctuation of PSIZ expenditure. The pension and disability insurance balance thus provides for around SIT 546 billion to finance all pension and disability insurance liabilities from the original income of SIT, and from the state budget it will be necessary to provide some less than EUR 224 billion. In 2004, the original income of PPIZ is expected to provide around 592 billion Slovenian tolars, and from the state budget we will allocate 247 billion current additional transfers. The draft financial plan for compulsory health insurance for 2003 provides for a total revenue of SIT 369 billion and expenditure of SIT 381 billion. In 2003 the Health Insurance Office also foresees a deficit of 12 billion Slovenian tolars. The 2004 financial projections of the Health Insurance Office provide for revenue of 399 billion and expenditure of 403 billion. This is also the case for 2004 at this stage with a health treasury deficit of 4 billion. The financial plans for the next two years shall be prepared on the basis of the current health insurance system and shall take into account the unchanged rates of contributions to compulsory health insurance for the next two years. However, it should be stressed that the Government is planning further structural reforms of the healthcare system over the next two years to ensure such internal rationalisation in terms of more efficient use of existing resources, as well as an agreement on the relationship between the needs of citizens on the one hand and the level of inputs they are willing to make to ensure compulsory health care, on the other hand, and in this context also to verify and supplement the existing supplementary health insurance system, in particular for those services which should be actually financed by compulsory health insurance. The reform of the healthcare system will help stabilise the functioning of the health insurance institution, reduce the deficit of compulsory health care and thus further contribute to the stabilisation of public finances in the coming years. Dear Members! The proposal for amending the budget for 2003 and the draft budget for 2004 enable, support and facilitate the implementation of the fundamental strategic priorities for the development of Slovenian society and economy in the coming years. They enable and support the final realization of two extremely important strategic priorities, the entry into the European Union and NATO. They enable and facilitate the implementation of the core programming priorities of the coalition and the government. At the same time, they promote investment activities, thereby strengthening economic activity and ensuring stable and more balanced public finances. Slovenian citizens are provided with a higher level of national, social and transport security over the next two years. They promote technological development and greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Enable faster regional development and accelerated housing. They ensure the completion of the reform of primary education and a greater level of funding for secondary and higher education, a greater range of cultural services and a new investment in health. I therefore propose that you adopt the draft amending budget for 2003 and the draft budget for 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-15-SDZ3-Izredna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Mag. Tone Rop, Minister of Finance. This concludes the presentation of the 2003 and 2004 budget memorandum and the 2004 state budget proposal. To the Prime Minister, Drnovsk, and to the Minister of Finance, Mag. Robbery, thank you for the presentation. Colleagues and colleagues! Today's presentation starts with the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft state budget. Members, Members' groups and interested working bodies may submit amendments up to and including Friday, 25 October of this year. With this warning, I conclude this agenda item and the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Everybody have a nice night. Thank you very much.
