ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend this morning's meeting of the following Members: Franz Čebulj, Franz Pukšič, Milan Kopushar, Bogdan Barovic, Jelko Kacin for the morning part of the session, Flower Zalokar Orazem, Leopold Kremjar, Alojz Peterle, Ivan Kebric, Yuri Malovra, Slavko Gaber, Dorian Marchič from 17:00 on, Franz Sušnik, Leopold Grošelj from 17:00 on, Branko Kelemina until 12.00 on, Janko Weber until 11.00 on and from 16.00 on and Andrej Fabjan. Since we're going to be able to determine the presence in the hall, I'd like to ask you to insert the cards. The data on the screen shows we haven't inserted the cards yet, so please insert the cards. I'd like to ask you one more time if we put the cards in. We'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. We're picking up the presence! The first determination of attendance was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention again. Next time, we'll find out who's here. We're picking up the presence! There are 54 of us present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting, and I welcome them very much among us. In order to continue today's 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we are left with: we are dealing with the 16th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law amending the law on the First Pension Fund and transforming the authorised investment companies with which we will start the meeting and dealing with the 10th item, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law. So we're going to break 16. It's a day's work. Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. The opinion of the delegation of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented to us by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that the basic reasons for amending the law on the first pension fund and the transformation of authorised investment companies are the reasons why the proposed amendment extends the prescribed period for the replacement of pension benefits for the supplementary pension insurance policy. In addition, for the extension of the prescribed period within which the authorised investment companies are to comply with the provisions of the Investment Company Act or to be transformed into a regular company. So, what the government has proposed in these three articles, we are assessing that it is justified. But we would like to draw attention to the importance of this law. Colleagues from the previous reference will remember what the procedure was like when we adopted the basic law. I mean, what's the dilemma here when we're talking about two parts? The first is related to the status of pension vouchers. When the government came to Parliament three years ago and proposed the establishment of this fund, it did not propose a limit on the number of pensions per individual natural person. And then, in accordance with the procedure, Parliament put this restriction into effect with the amendment. In the parliamentary group, we also looked at the magnetogram of the debate on our working body. This debate was actually very interesting. Mr More was a representative of the government - by the way, today is a government meeting, and we know that on Thursdays the government - on such a sensitive issue, we would like to see Mr Moret, whom we value very much, as well as his colleagues, in support of their views on some issues when we ask them that there might be a secretary of state, but even better if he were a minister; for the authorship of the minister and responsibility is greater than the Under-Secretary of State, who is a great expert in this area, but he is only an expert, but he does not have political responsibility. Well, and in this debate on the working body, Mr More correctly stated or found that when he passed the law years ago, when he said that he had prevented the solution that there was no restriction - I myself, you know, very much remember this debate and I remember the performances of my colleague Potræ. I don't know if Comrade Potsch was a representative of the Pedonian lobby, just the opposite, most likely. But three years ago, the government came to Parliament and did not propose a limit on the number of vouchers and Parliament reached it. Today the situation is similar. The government comes up with arguments when it proposes an extension of this period, but does not propose amendments with regard to the limitation of the number of pensions. On the working body led by colleague Pucka, you decided to delete the restriction on the basis of a discussion by your colleague Kavčič. Some very reasonable questions are whether such a solution is good and just. I'll put it here later as a member of Parliament. Mr More, the Undersecretary of State has already given good consideration to these objections at the meeting of the Committee. But the other is about the fact that we have before us - I don't know if it's an amendment that could be a compromise and the question if it is. The Group of Members proposes to replace the dot with a comma and add the text "but maximum until the replacement of 30,000 pension vouchers". As a parliamentary group, however, we would like to ask the next question. Is such a solution correct with the basic legal concept that we are called changing the conditions for backward? This is an important question for us. The second issue is the issue of injustice and the possibility of action. You will recall that this law allowed the owners of Pidov shares to choose years ago whether to reclassify their shares or not. At the time, the owners knew that the limit was 10,000. In the absence of such a restriction, perhaps several of the then owners of Pidov's shares would have decided to re-qualify into vouchers. This is said to mean that if today's State Reverse Assembly increased the number of possible vouchers from 10,000, for example, to 30,000, the current owners of the Pidov Stocks could also claim their losses, which they received on this account. This is one question for, perhaps, representatives of the government, and perhaps also for respected colleagues who are proposing this solution. Finally, we also estimate that branches of some basic principled right-wing hold to consider this very well if we change this provision. When we were preparing for this performance, we also heard an argument that this solution is better for the younger generation. And that this very limit was somehow the reason why relatively few pension card owners have decided to trade these vouchers for this and thus exchange them for a voluntary pension policy. Do you really think that this is an argument that if we increase to 30,000, that more young people will decide? If we quickly calculate, 30,000 vouchers will be at least 1.5 million tolars, about, on average, maybe even more. What young people today could pay 1.5 million tolars and buy 30,000 vouchers? For us, the key question and the argument that this simplification will draw more citizens to it is not sustainable. This is a small number of citizens, unfortunately a very small number of citizens. We would also like a very concrete answer to a question, perhaps from government representatives. The law in force, if we understand it correctly, is that all those owners of pensions that have less than 10,000, if they do not decide on their own when the deadline is up, these vouchers will somehow automatically become a voluntary pension scheme, or in this sense, a solution. In our opinion, there could be a second paradox - that by deciding to increase the number of vouchers, in particular allowing those who have been properly bought in accordance with the terms of the stock exchange, if we increase the number of pension vouchers, their price will rise, and they will no doubt, once they are sold at the stock market by the end of the deadline, very good and greasy. But it's a very small group. And, of course, there will be no misunderstanding, the principle of the stock market is to take risks and buy risks. We are not just reading ourselves to those who have made up their minds in the past months and have bought a huge number of pension vouchers. But we caution and ask whether, in terms of fairness, it would be right for Members to weigh in when we adopt laws, even in terms of fairness, so that after a few years, by changing the number of pensions, those who have done so will earn a gratuitous sum, but this is a very small group of citizens and citizens. There is also an amendment in the parliamentary group that changes the deadline. I think the colleagues of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia have cut this short. The question that comes to us is which arguments led the government to extend the deadline by six months, and I think that the colleagues of Socialdemocrati and New Slovenia are only three months old. We need to talk about what it means to extend the deadline by just three months. Is it possible at this time that all procedures are properly carried out and that this process of conversion of the vouchers into voluntary pension policy is completed. However, as regards the second set, this is an extension of the regulatory deadline within which pids are obliged to comply with the provisions of the current law or to be transformed into a regular shareholder society, but the following should be said. The fact is, according to the law, the Slovenian Development Society made the necessary assets, which were then acquired by the pids, one year later. And according to the legislation in force, a six-month period is needed before the congregations of individual pids are signed so that they can then be transformed into a regular shareholding society or otherwise, as provided for by the law in force. We can therefore see that this extension of the deadline is the only correct solution. We can talk about her debt. However, it is likely that someone else will say this, but it is also the responsibility of the government, that it has failed to enable the Slovenian development society to fill in the final certificate hole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democratic Party, we are of the view that the amendments to this law once again point to the irresponsible attitude of all the governments of Drnovško to the regulation of the business or management of that part of the former social property acquired by the citizens of Slovenia through certificates and through certificates also entrusted to pyds or management companies. This irresponsibility was not only demonstrated for the first time by delaying the completion of the privatisation gap, which was finally filled in in 2002, but also, for the second time, in inadequate control and regulation of the transformation of pids, which in fact does not safeguard the interests of small shareholders. The Act on the First Pension Fund and the Conversion of Authorised Investment Companies, adopted in mid-1999, set out, contrary to the expectations of small shareholders and the system-wide regulation of the operation of investment funds in the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, the possibility of transforming the pids into regular or ordinary equity companies, without particularly ensuring the rights of small shareholders with supervision of the Securities Market Agency. This is because regular companies operate and are organised under the Company Act and are not subject to the supervision of the Securities Market Agency. In addition, amendments and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act are already announced in the new law adopted by the National Assembly at first reading following the ordinary procedure of 6.7.2001. The government should therefore first pay full attention to the preparation of the new Investment Funds Act as soon as possible and, only on the basis of this adopted amendment, to regulate the operation of investment funds and to extend the current deadline for the transformation of pids. Instead, it extends only the period or time for the conversion of pids in the amendments to the First Pension Fund Act and the conversion of investment companies and leaves intact the current arrangements for the transformation of pids into ordinary shareholders and thus the rights of small shareholders unprotected, with the aim of continuing imprudentity of the concentration of capital. At the same time, in the Social Democratic Party, we ask ourselves - and we also ask representatives of the government - what is the strategy based on the transformation of pids. Is the strategy and way and plan to allow and allow the concentration of capital in the hands of individuals, or is the objective and strategy that we have followed since the year after the independence or 1992 that capital is dispersed and that small shareholders are also on the Slovenian market? We have prepared amendments in the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia: the proposed amendments remove the possibility for authorised investment companies to continue to be transformed into ordinary shareholders and maintain the provision or obligation to comply with the provisions of the Investment Companies and Management Companies Act. So far, the possibility of pids being transformed into ordinary equity companies or dismembering into an investment company and a ordinary shareholder company has already shown in practice a number of negative consequences for the development of the ownership structure of the Slovenian economy and thus for the overall further economic development. The assets of small shareholders that have traded their equity certificates for pid shares are not protected by the Securities Market Agency and therefore their values are undervalued and lead to an unjustified concentration of capital. The provision so far that pids can also be transformed into ordinary stock companies was adopted in mid-1999 in contravention of the regime by which citizens decided to place their certificates in peds. At the time, no one was aware of the temporary nature of the pids as a specific type of investment company in relation to the development of the financial and capital market, these small shareholders could only expect their harmonisation or constant adaptation with the rules of operation they knew about the country's open or closed investment funds in the developed world. The proposed amendment is therefore merely to ensure that the arrangements for the management of pids, which were the basis for citizens' decisions to switch ownership certificates into pid shares and to eliminate the choice of pid conversion to ordinary shareholdings. However, since some pids have already transformed into investment firms and ordinary investment firms and/or have been linked to holding companies, the amendment provides that, as with investment funds, supervision is provided by the Securities Market Agency in accordance with the Investment Funds Act and Management Companies. In short, we propose amendments aimed at protecting small shareholders and, on the one hand, providing small shareholders with control over these transformations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear government officials! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The presentation that you just heard, colleague Andrej Viszak of the Social Democratic Party, also explained the position that Nova Slovenije has, since we have jointly formulated these amendments, which we are also offering today to address this national assembly. Comrade John Sponik was right to warn us of what we actually have in our consideration today. A short law, three articles, which actually touch on one of the key problems of our society and which will also shape how we will continue to live in our common country. Let us remember that the Slovenian state created 2 million small shareholders in Slovenia in 1992 but in 1996 we established pids, then we had a special law to regulate how these companies should be managed and operated in accordance with the law. But then some news, a novelty in 1999. I'm just going to focus on that because I think it's crucial. In 1999, we created an opportunity for these special investment companies to be transformed into equity companies, totally meaningless, which was not in accordance with the system-wide regulation of the already existing law. Because the law allowed them to do so: You can comply with the law, and you have three more years to do so, or you can become a sharer. What does that really mean? Indeed, this means that what the Slovenian state has promised to all citizens and citizens, that we will become small shareholders, a dispersed shareholding in Slovenia, to solve the systemic problem of social property, who owns and what we will do with it, but we have made a fine adjustment in such a way that it has actually turned its back on Slovenian citizens and citizens. Why? Since a certain pid can be transformed into a normal shareholding company, it is not supervised by the securities market agency. So, from a real point of view, from an economic point of view, complete nonsense, which has opened up opportunities for what we all know today, and this is that there is a process of strong concentration of economic power in our society, over which the Slovenian government, the Slovenian state has no control and does not have its own power. That is why today we are proposing what our government should have done. It is pointless for us to be proposed in three articles today only to extend this situation, since we will once again address the systemic problem. We know well that the government is in preparation, but it does not come to presenting this to the National Assembly, a new law that would definitively regulate these matters, but only suggests that we extend it and that we continue to look at this process, with which few agree. Therefore, we also propose this amendment to prevent the further transformation of pids into stock companies immediately and those that have already been transformed will immediately come under the supervision of the securities market agency. The government may have different solutions, but it just talks about it, we read about it in the newspaper. I would like to draw your attention to an article that has recently been written in the Journal of Finance, how a proposal should only exist, but there is nothing about it. The only thing we have is an extension of this situation, which finally creates a totally unacceptable position in Slovenia. Therefore, we ask you to think seriously - a little differently than you usually do every proposal by the opposition. Today, too, we amend Article 33 in such a way as to prevent the further transformation of pids into stock companies and those that have already converted immediately become subject to the supervision of the market agency for securities. This is a responsible attitude, this is what citizens and citizens expect from us, that we will not continue to prolong what actually happened to the law in 1999, that we have turned our backs on Slovenian citizens and citizens by making those glorious promises that we will all become shareholders and owners of so-called social property - it has become a dead letter and a self-speculation of a very small number of entrepreneurs and well-informed representatives of structural governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Blaž Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u8	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have tried to look at the issue of the first pension fund in a slightly different way from what we have seen in the discussions so far. From the point of view of the citizen and citizen of Slovenia, who wants to invest in a safer age. So we put this situation at the forefront of our thinking. So, from a macroeconomic point of view, instead of spending resources, current spending, investing in a safer age. That is why we have also supported the Government's proposal to extend the period of validity of pension vouchers, because we felt that, years ago, the government's announced purpose would be easier to implement through the active approach of the institutions responsible for this by the end of this calendar year. In addition, we have added thought, first of all on the Committee on Finance, where we have proposed and adopted a decision to remove the cap on the ceiling on pension vouchers, but we must recognise that after the adoption of this decision, several arguments have been put forward indicating that in certain theoretical cases the abuse of this law may have occurred in a way that would be foreign to the basic intent of this law, and that we have then, as a group of Members, tabled an amendment that builds on this position of the Board by placing the ceiling on 30000 vouchers. What does that mean? It's very simple. This means for Slovenians, a middle-aged Slovenian, that they will be able to afford a monthly pension of not more than 10,000 tolls, but a monthly pension of up to 30, 35,000 tolars. So, for some amount that we'll probably agree with, we can tell him that the mention is worth Motivating a lot of people to think deeply about this option, which will convince a larger number of people than the previous 10,000 tolars that they will even take a deep look at this option. So it's not like it's some kind of change in the terms of the back. This is a new option that can be exploited by those who already have pensions, such as those who have had and sold pensions, as those who will start to think about pensions. So it's a simple life interest of individuals. We want to enable them to make some remarks worth a month's worth of money if they choose to do so. In fact, there is a problem of retroactivity. This dilemma is, of course, justified and has certain professional arguments. However, after an in-depth legal analysis, we still believe that more and more difficult arguments are in favour of this change than against. Thus, the following principles apply to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the section on constitutionality and legality, in the second paragraph of Article 155, provides that only the law, but the law, may provide that its individual provisions have a retroactive effect if this requires public benefit and thus does not prejudice the rights acquired. It is clear from this definition - and this is clear - that only individual legal provisions, but not provisions of any other general legal act, such as a regulation, can apply back. Secondly, it is clear that retroactive validity must require public benefit, which must be specifically identified in the legislative process. And thirdly, the retroactive validity must not affect the rights already acquired. The first safety criterion authorises only the legislator to react retroactively, if necessary, by authorising it and at the same time restricting it from doing so only in a very narrow area in question. Another safety criterion requires retroactivity to be in the public interest. The third safety criterion is also very sensitive. Its protective effect depends on how we define and explain our so-called rights. It is clear, therefore, that the amendment already mentioned and the amendment to the amendment we support is without prejudice to the right acquired, that its essential component is the possibility of investing in a safer age. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Group, we will support those proposals that have been upgraded by the Group of Members on the basis of the working body of the Members adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč will present the opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is likely that, with regard to substantively less extensive amendments and the addition of the First Pension Fund Act and the transformation of authorised investment companies, a substantive debate was opened. In view of the fact that we have been engaged in these issues in the Group of Members so far, colleague Podobnik has been correct and also my personal engagement three years ago - which was not only my personal but also on behalf of the Group of Members - it is right that I should also say a few words as a representative of the Group of Members. The issue of authorised investment companies and the issue of ensuring the property of authorised investment companies is one of, in the opinion of the UK Group of Social Democrats, which is currently formally concluded, but not the most agreeable and correct stories of the ownership process in our country. It took almost ten years to say that the original promise that all citizens and citizens could participate in the ownership process on an equal footing through the right granted to them by certificates of their age was formally realized. We know that only formal realizations, because the objective possibility and position of individual holders of certificates were very different - from those in the companies that were owned, in the good and the bad, and to those who had only the opportunity, but had the opportunity to perform on the companies that went to the public sale of shares, they were not unlimited, and at the end of the third group, which was the largest group that had not had much opportunity, but had to wait for solutions regarding the provision of property to authorised investment companies, which - I repeat - because I have said several times - resolved in a way that was not adjusted by the country to these citizens and citizens. It is true that the government has played an important role in this regard, but it is true that the national assembly, MEPs and Members of this National Assembly, which we have agreed on every time on new government proposals to find transitional solutions and extended deadlines, has played an important role in this regard. I would not like to stress this in particular because it has not been successful, only our Group of Members and I among them have been the loudest in any case, and I have warned that we are working towards citizens in an incorrect manner. I was even accused of what my colleague Podobnik correctly denied today to work on behalf of the pids. This was not in the interest of the pids or their owners, vice versa. This was in the interest of a million people and so many people who waited lightly.And today it has been confirmed that their value has only increased by slowly filling them formally up to 100%. I said that years ago that everyone loses 50, 100 and more percent of the real value just because pids are 30, 50 or more formally filled. It's all kind of, I'd say, exactly confirmed. I don't want to talk about it because I don't know, and I don't want to be unfair, whether it was done on purpose, or because of a poor valuation of property, or an increase in assets that was made through different decisions in the National Assembly. But in the end, for the vast majority of citizens and citizens, this was the situation. They saved him differently. Some have waited for better times, and now, for example, they achieve a little better, not better, because the nominal value has not yet been reached. Some sold it, some bought it legally, let it go, or it was all fair, used this transition time, and bought it cheap, to sell it a little bit later on the stock market. It's just this part of this freakish story. I'm talking about because then we finally passed the law on the first pension fund, which arranged this thing in the way that in the end it was just again delayed, but realized, and let's say that this moment-filled privatisation gap is formal and things are going on. At the time, we decided to allow the possibility to also encourage pension savings, that part of the certificates or shares that we had of citizens and citizens in pension funds should also be earmarked for the purchase of pension vouchers. At that time, the idea was that this was a right given within a certain period of time, a right given to a particular material stimulation of the country, because the interest was also to provide savings for the pension and, firstly, the idea that it was to do so unlimitedly. Once again, in the UK Group, we were the ones who were warned at the time differently than the government thought. However, we have been successful in our warnings so that it would not be proper and beneficial to allow this purchase of pensions to be allowed indefinitely. Because we know that we do not all have unlimited options to make this conditional on a material situation. And secondly, because with this state, those who have a more favourable material position would be given additional national - let me say - stimulation when they could not be given to others. This time, the National Assembly adopted such a thought. Unfortunately, he did not accept it when they adopted and amended the property law, because even then, our Group's proposal was that, for example, 50 per cent of the internal purchase should not be granted to everyone without limitation, but a certain limit should also be placed here because we know that the country gave 50% to someone. Unfortunately, it was not adopted at the time and now appears to be a problem. Because if it were accepted at the time, then we wouldn't have had cases where someone went to buy on credit an unlimited number of shares on the basis of an internal buy-in and got 50 percent more and now we find out whether it has too much or no value in some company or a bank or some insurance company - it doesn't matter. On the basis of these starting points, we also discussed the proposed law. I must say, first of all, that in the Group of Members, we have not discussed how and whether the possibility of transforming authorised investment companies into shares companies should be possible. My two colleagues, a member of our parliamentary group on the Committee on Finance, do not know that this would be a fundamental problem and a fundamental issue in the Committee on Finance as well. I myself expected that we agreed on this in 1999, because then the basic law brought these two options and that today we are not talking about the basis and the right, but only about the reality of the deadline and the proposal to extend the deadlines for these solutions, which we did not oppose. Therefore, I ask that, above all, the representatives of the government say whether, on the basis of this point, there is a possible debate in the way that has been set up today, so that no one can say again later, after a while, because we have allowed abuses, even though we have been warned in due time. We have not seen them at this moment if anyone says they are possible, of course we want them to be seriously discussed and see a possible decision. Secondly, on the basis of our previous engagement and at the warning of our colleagues from the Committee that the Committee on Finance has decided to abolish the limits of the vouchers, we immediately felt that this solution showed a re-examination. And suggested that the initiators of these discussions should also assess whether this solution is indeed justified or not. And together we have found that it could be controversial - not only in terms of retraactivity, but also in terms of the government's warning - to give limited scope to purchase only to some individuals and thus ensure that they get a relatively small amount of money without work, a relatively high supplement to the pension, which certainly would not be possible for all. That's why we found a common solution in a limited number, not 10,000, as is the law in force, but 30,000. We also felt that this amount was being rejected or prevented by speculation in our parliamentary group. It is no longer possible to talk about speculation in the sense that someone will buy, sell later or provide a relatively small amount of money for a relative pension, for which someone else should work hard and pay 40 years after our pension system, but we did not - since there was no government opinion at the time on the adoption of the amendment in the home work body - particularly on the issue of retroactivity. And this is the second question at this point, which I would specifically ask the representatives of the government to determine whether their concerns, expressed to the opinion of the amendment of the parent labour body, are equally valid for an amendment allowing the possibility of limiting 30000. If this is to the same extent, then we will feel that this amendment should not be accepted, but the government's concern, if the government sees the differences here, will be decided on the contrary. As far as retroactivity is concerned, it's probably the following. For all those who have already sold their shares or have no more shares in investment companies that could still be converted into pensions, this means retroactivity. Since they sold you the rest of the case, they said we can't buy anymore, but maybe we'd be interested, we're opening this option up today, but, of course, only to those who still have their shares in management companies or in those pids, the rest are not. And in this sense, this is in the course of the implementation of a law, a changed situation, and in this respect this could be considered retroactive and that the state does not have equal opportunities for all citizens and citizens. If such a matter were assessed, the secretariat - it would be desirable - would say its opinion, then we would propose on behalf of the Group of Members that this amendment should also be given: either withdraws or does not support not create new opportunities for future disputes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the debate is limited to five minutes. I'm sorry, Dr. Bajuk, I thought you applied for a limited debate. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u12	Procedural proposal, Madam President-in-Office. Comrade Potts reminded us, too, of the responsibility of the National Assembly. He also spoke about the responsibility of the National Assembly. However, I myself have mentioned the irresponsibility of our government, which has not yet presented to us the systemic solutions to the obvious problems that exist in this area of Koleg Potrč has clearly presented or reminded us or reminded us that such temporary solutions will finally lead us to exactly the situation that we are in today. I would not like to open a debate on the objectives of amending the law in 1999, but today we know what these effects are. But we can't avoid that. We can avoid debate as to what anyone expected, but we cannot avoid debate as to what such a law has actually created. Therefore, precisely because of this responsibility of the National Assembly and the responsibility of our government, I propose that we wait for a break of fifteen minutes - if necessary - to call on the Minister of Finance to join us in this debate, because I cannot imagine a more responsible person or a more reprehensible person who can explain not only the government's position in the current composition, but also the government's position in previous compositions, because he was one of the key actors who has formed this sad story that we are discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dr. Bajuk, as you may recall, we have discussed such discussions about the wishes that are absolutely legitimate, of the National Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall authorise individuals who may be ministers, secretaries of state and undersecretaries to participate in and present laws at meetings. In this case, she also authorised mag. Anton Rope. Mr Minister could also be with us today, as he is authorised to cooperate. We don't know the reasons why he's not here. We can estimate he's probably on sejivlades. So if you insist that I make this procedural proposal - normally we have never actually considered it a procedural proposal and we have not even decided on it because we would decide on a matter for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has full powers. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. In no way have I disputed the fact or legitimacy of the representatives of the government at this meeting. I merely point out this and ask fifteen minutes of recess to invite the Minister to join us, because we are looking for definitive or at least systemic solutions, that this law or the amendment of this law will not be a new flicker that will only prolong the time and agony of Slovenian citizens and citizens who are completely lonely, as far as this is concerned, and have no support in the law and system-wide regulation of control over companies that have to exercise their interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia monitor the work of the National Assembly and have heard your call. We can also express our wish and invitation from this city to the Minister of Finance of Magi. Anton Rope, that - if he can - he will join us, because we would like to hear explanations from his mouth as well. This is how we address our request to the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who are accompanying us. However, I think we can proceed with the treatment. We are in the stage of general discussion, and I think Members and Members will want to discuss it. So we have a general debate. I ask Members and Members who wish to discuss, as I have said before, the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I would therefore like to discuss this in the context of the general debate. At first I thought I'd sign up in writing, but I'll try to be brief within five minutes. I don't know if my colleague and I are aware of how important this law is. I am sure that this is a very important law and, above all, the solutions in it. I'd like to discuss two things. The first is linked to the capital market in the Republic of Slovenia. I have before me a very good book written by a mag. Robert Kleindienst Savings in domestic and foreign shares. Very good text, good material and I recommend it to my fellow Members and colleagues who are interested in these issues. I would like to say two words about the Slovenian capital market. In the National Assembly, you know, we say a lot of things, but not enough about the subject. The Slovenian capital market consists of three support pillars: insurance companies, banks and pids. I have the impression that the situation of especially investment companies in society, in politics, even in the National Assembly, is poor that they have a poor image. Maybe unjustifiable, maybe justifiable. I hope that a comprehensive amendment of the law will allow us to be much more prepared to attend a meeting of the National Assembly and to discuss these matters honestly. Mag. Kleindienst says: "The average active investor will therefore be less successful than the average passive investor after taking into account transaction costs and tax effects. However, the separation between passive and active investors is somewhat less clear on the Slovenian capital market. For it is a mass ownership process made by a multitude of investors whose first and last contact with the market will or will be the sale of privatisation shares." It's for a small shareholder. There is a need to talk more about this and especially about it. A number of these investors were willing to sell securities at a relatively low price on the grey market before they were placed on the organised market. Skilled and better-educated market participants took advantage of their naivety, which in a number of cases was also due to the financial hardships of part of the population. And that's true. After the start of the quotation on the stock exchange, shares have almost generally reached a higher price than in the grey market, meaning that certain active investors have achieved a relatively short average return on assets. In contrast to developed markets, the Slovenian market will continue to operate for a period of time by three and not two groups of investors. In addition to active and passive investors who decide to sell their shares on a single basis will also be involved in the market. In short sentences, a very good cut, as is today the rate of the Slovenian capital market. It's about pids. As for the basic subject of vouchers, I would like to highlight the next dilemma. The argument of respectable colleague Kavčič, whom I highly appreciate, is that with an increased number the possibility of investing in a safe age is increased. And that it is the life interest of individuals. Now, of course, you must answer me a very specific question. The number of vouchers received by pid shareholders is fixed. The scope of the first pension fund is determined and cannot be increased. There is also a 20 - percent tax relief - we did not mention that. This is a very important provision. But now I ask you: If some will have the opportunity and they will invest more in a safe age, but the frog is only one, those who are already in the frog will get less. That's what Mr. More said at the board meeting. That's what we say, if we allow up to 30,000 to be bought, it's unfair to those who've already been in there and only bought 10,000. That's unfair - if I'm right. But I quote, I can quote Mr. Moret. A small insurance number that's not a problem today. If the deadline expires today, these insurers will be much more immediately because they automatically turn all the vouchers into insurance policies. Only those who have more than 10,000 will in this case, if they don't sell them in time - believe that they will, just the question is, at what price, they will always sell the vouchers, but if you want to sell them at a very high price and hard. But it's a question of what price ratios. And now it's just a question of retroactivity. Is that a public interest? I do not think that this is a very narrow group of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u18	A replica or answer, including on my part, to my esteemed colleague Sponik. Some fundamental facts need to be known about the first pension fund. In order to avoid different possible views on this matter, I have asked the gentlemen at the first pension fund to do a simulation of what would happen if we decide to raise the maximum pension fee limit to 30,000. And that actually confirms what I said in my presentation speech. This means that an individual will be able to afford - say, a 60-year-old individual on 13.7.2004 instead of 11,600, after 1 per cent of the yield, he will be able to secure a monthly pension of 34 thousand 822 tolars. Now that one frog, of course, has to be understood. It is true that what Mr More correctly explained is that the property of the first pension fund has been given. And also the additional assets that were given are specified, evaluated and also 20 per cent of the income relief is accounted for in such a way that the first pension fund is given 20 per cent more assets. It may be useful to know that the book value of this moment of pension voucher is about 160 tolars, that it was stung on the stock exchange about 60 and that the lowest prices were there about 30, 38. So we're dealing with very large differences. And we can go back to the first pension fund manager's assurance that even with the guarantee of the state of Slovenia he is able to provide the promised returns, which are otherwise not too generous, because he provides only 1% nominal return on those amounts, not real, and in his business policy speaks of their business goal of being higher. So we could accept that at this stage. Once again, I have to say clearly: if a person, John Sponik, pulls out of circulation, instead of buying a slightly larger car, for example, the amount needed to buy 30,000 vouchers, he will get three times the monthly rent, than he would get, if he buys, say, 10,000 vouchers. I've said this a number of times, and this is also confirmed by the latest simulations from the First Pension Fund. This means, macro-economically speaking, we are trying to offer the Slovenians a solution to channel money from current consumption into investment for a safer age. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Two replicas, Mr. Parallel, then Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I would briefly replicate my colleague Kavčič and quote yesterday's performance by Mr Moret, not at the board meeting. Citation: "The removal of the restriction on the replacement of pension benefits in this given framework would, however, be an opportunity for an individual to provide a higher supplementary pension with additional purchases of pensions," said Kavčič, explaining very in detail what the procedure is, "but at the given level of the total mass to which I have already pointed out, this could be an increase in the pension only at the expense of other individuals who would consequently obtain a smaller additional pension." I'm asking for an explanation. If that's true, then your amendment is unfair to these, and we need to weigh it, put it on the scale. If he holds Mr Moret's position, we must not increase the number of pensions today.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Please, if you could turn off your phones. Mr. Punch, I'm sorry, I think you've both suddenly raised your hands. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u22	Thank you very much. First of all, a nice greeting to the Minister, with whom we have talked many times about these issues, sometimes more, sometimes less friendly. But it's okay. With regard to Mr Blaž Kavčič's debate, I would like to ask the government's representatives in particular to answer the next question, partly the principles of Mr Podobnik. Is the issue of retroactive use not only the issue of purchase but also the question of substitution? The question of buying from my modest assessment is to a lesser extent. Now it opens up on a new deadline, whether for another six months or something, and if anyone decides to do so, he can possibly decide to buy. But this is about buying, not replacing. In my opinion, however, this is retroactive use because conditions were different three years ago. Under those conditions, someone decided and said, I'm simplifying, it's not worth trading for 10,000, because 10 or 11,000 per nominal 1% yield doesn't represent the size for which I'd go and I'd rather say, I'm trading or I'm thinking about what's going to happen to my pid shares. Today you might say 34,000 or so. 30,000 is already that order of sizes, and because of these, I think it's a retroactive use and I'd like to think about it. Apparently this may not seem to be the most important question in this relationship - and 10, 30,000, which I say again, is really no longer speculative, according to our assessment. It would be hard to say here that she'd be as speculative as she'd be with the unlimited. Because then a lot of people would be able to buy not to buy pensions for an extra pension, but because it has resources and because it's another additional area of irregular relations and by trading, I won't tell speculation, because if trading is legal, it's hard to say that it's speculation, it's just that this legal trade that the state in the system has made possible gets disproportionately high income, I say again, also by means of 20% of the state-given supplement. And here, when it comes to supplements, it would be right that the state gives them to everyone about the same, but not according to its current financial potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, thank you so much for joining us. The MPs wanted you to be between us and be able to answer questions. You want a word? Here you go, Minister Rob.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u24	How nice to meet you. I apologize for not being here at the beginning, because the government's meeting is under way and there were also some points of the Ministry of Finance. If I can start with this part of the question concerning the number of pension vouchers, where some of the government's views have also been cited. I apologize if I repeat some of the things that have already been said. The position of the Ministry of Finance and the Government was very clear. We objected to the fact that an individual could obtain unlimited, I stress, an unlimited number of vouchers, because this would imply that an individual could receive disproportionately much tax, implicit tax relief from this title and there is not exactly any argument, nor any reason to allow it. We have also made that very clear. But the question is whether any other limit is permissible than the one originally designed is 10,000. In fact, it was our view that this matter of assessment was also the legislator, especially because it was the fact that, on the basis of the mechanism we had, there was a large dispersion of the number of pension vouchers and so we can see that the average number of pension vouchers per holder of 1,200 pension vouchers. This means, of course, that individuals, assuming that there will be no additional concentration, have very little chance of doing anything with these pensions. They will also sell them very hard because the concentration will not be allowed. What does that theoretically mean? The calculations I have right here in front of me show that if 30,000 grand were available, someone 50 years old would have paid off about 34,000 tolars. If it's 10, it means you'd have 10,000 tolls of rent. Someone who has only a tenth of this would have only 1,000 tolars and should have waited to get to the realization of this rent, 15, 16 years old. Someone 41 years old would have 3,800 or 3,000 tolls of rent and should have waited 25 years to get any of it. In short, in terms of liquidity, it is likely that it is justified and does not reduce the rights of those who, for example, have only 1000 vouchers if we allow them to sell these vouchers. Of course, on the other hand, we need to weigh what those who buy the vouchers gain. In this case, of course, my assessment must make it very clear that an individual would gain a disproportionate income and that, of course, the State would assist him accordingly. It is an assessment, or it makes sense to increase from 10,000 up. My assessment is that, according to these calculations that we have, it is likely that this thought is justified, or that now 30,000 is the limit that is most justified, but it is also your opinion. This is, of course, an assessment that is valuable in nature, that the rent for someone who is now 40 years old and will be waiting for retirement 20 years, 38,000 is not enough to be unacceptable in terms of encouraging the state to save, now charge and later receive 30,000 tolars of additional pension. Personally, it makes sense for us to allow this kind of movement. Of course, it's a matter of your judgment. We have not dealt specifically with this amendment, but I can say that the government does not oppose this proposal that has been tabled. However, it strongly opposes that there is no limit and that someone from speculative purposes may come to disproportionately large rights. In this sense, I find the remarks of Mr Janez Spokonik meaningful.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please. Then Mr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u26	Mr Minister, in its position, the government has also used the issue of retroactivity as a sufficiently serious argument. That's why I'm interested, and I want an answer. I understand that you, in particular as a financier and from a financial point of view, have assessed and evaluated what it would mean or not. I would just like to ask you to make it clear that there is another aspect now or after consulting what is in this other case. Whether retroactive use applies only in the case of unlimited number, or may be problematic even in the case of limited, yet twice or three times increased, as it is mathematically said, will help me, because now there is no Mojet, the number.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary can answer. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u28	Undoubtedly, my assessment of this allows additional rights, additional rights for all, but in a positive sense for all. For those who have very dispersed ownership of pension vouchers, as well as for those who wish to obtain additional pensions. I would say that it is undoubtedly a positive movement in both directions with all beneficiaries. In that sense, I would say I don't see the problem of this kind of right back.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please. Then Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I'd like a slightly more specific answer, Mr. Minister, if you'll excuse me. Thank you so much for having responded to our invitation. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sure you also have an assessment between your papers, which you've already told us about, what this additional tax relief means. What additional tax relief means to people, not in some uniform way as envisaged at the beginning, three years ago, but only to those who today have the opportunity to turn additional vouchers into shelves. This is questionable from a social point of view, what tax relief means today in the manner proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u32	I have to say, I don't have these special calculations. The professional services have calculations of the rent that are realised under different assumptions, according to the different number of vouchers. However, if 20% is implicit tax relief and this is included here, it is very clear from this that someone who is 50 years old and buys 30,000 such vouchers actually has implicit tax relief at 34,000 tolars after 15 years of 20%. That's 7,000 tolars.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The minister made a convincing appearance. I have one question that I have previously raised in my capacity as President of the Group of Members. Is it expected that the possible owners of the pid’s shares will be able to press charges? I've already argued why. It's because of the other situation. When we decide today what this number will be, I think all the options and the consistency of such a decision must be made. It is true that in Slovenia there is a large dispersion of the current owners of pension vouchers and that they will be sold by those who have 1000 or more. They will also be sold by those who have more than 100,000. We're all equal. All equal, all equal, something like this once. But you know, without a bit of appeal. Some of them have over 100,000. Our decision today will also have an impact on the price of the stock market vouchers. If we decided on an unlimited number, we'd go to the sky for a price. Since we may decide for 30,000, the price will go up, but slightly less. Mr Minister, those small, simple shareholders who have a few thousand vouchers, who simply don't know what to do with them, will earn enormously. This information is also necessary to know how we are going to decide. There has been no answer for me, Mr Minister, whether it is right to allow people to save their lives in such a way as to buy more pensions, while at the same time those already in this system will have fewer. I have not yet received an answer to this question. But I can only assume that Mr More was a bit inaccurate here. And his point of view is not entirely true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you want a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u36	I think that some of these concerns that you have put here, Mr Sponik, are excusable and concerns exist. That is why the government has also decided to pay particular attention to what is unacceptable to the government. In this case, when this movement takes place, there is no doubt that what you have warned about will happen. On the one hand, these holders have the opportunity to sell these vouchers and to realise liquidity in a relatively favourable manner. On the other hand, the question is how many are actually those with relatively very large packages and how many are they going to be able to realize or question how many are going to go from 10,000 to 30 thousand and realize. It will certainly be substantially, substantially less than it would be if we opened this class now. Then, of course, actually speculators could make an extremely extreme profit. On this assumption that 30 thousand, I don't know if 30 thousand, maybe 20 thousand, the more we lower the limit down, the less those who buy these vouchers. If we look at these size classes, then we see that these holders aren't really that big. If I am looking at pension vouchers owned by natural persons, we have between 9 000 and 10 000, Mr Podobnik, in this class, according to the number of vouchers, only 1372 holders, while we have more than 10 000 vouchers, only 545 of these holders. So if we assume that this 1300 might increase, there's actually not a crazy lot of room for someone to make an extremely large and extreme profit. And these 545 owners by class, of course, is also the question of what distribution they have among themselves. My assessment is, more than 30 thousand down, there's less chance that something like this will happen, which you've been talking about, because there will be fewer of them, and the mass of potential earnings will be smaller, and on the other hand, there will be less chance of small ones, those who have scattered vouchers to sell these vouchers further. Such an answer, of course, is not uniform and is not simple and I cannot give it either and I do not intend to give it in this sense. It is undoubtedly a dilemma, and it is worth considering. Undoubtedly, this solution has some positive consequences, and it carries some risks. The smaller this limit is, the smaller the risk of someone making an extreme profit, and I don't think there's much chance of that. However, such a solution will undoubtedly encourage a wide range of activities in this area, so that as many people as possible will want to be convinced that they will go to this upper class, invest their resources, and thus have a safer age. Even in that sense, I don't think it's that bad. This will undoubtedly trigger a process. But I don't think that would be the result of this extreme raise in the price of vouchers. However, it will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the price of the vouchers. My assessment is that the current price of the vouchers is low and underestimated. In fact, it is a shame that it may have been too little advertising activity to make it very clear to people that this is something that is very good and useful for citizens if they choose to invest in it. This discussion may also contribute today to the decision of more people to make such an unquestionably positive investment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Podobnik, allow me to welcome among us the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, His Excellency, Mr Simeon Saska-Kaburska-Gothski. Welcome to Slovenia! [[Let's hear it.]] I now give the floor to two replicas, first to Mr Podobnik, then to Mr Kavčič. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much. In this second performance, the minister was a little less convincing, he was "pulling out" as it is classic. The question would also be addressed to the representative of the secretariat regarding the charges because I did not get this answer, and who would be the addressee of the action in this case - the state? That seems an important question to me when it comes to making decisions. Since it is necessary to be persistent, I would read once again the quote: "The removal of the restrictions on the replacement of pensions in this given framework would, however, be an opportunity for an individual to provide a higher supplementary pension by purchasing pensions," this is nothing to be disputed, we support, "but at the given level of the total mass," and this is also a fact that the mass cannot be changed, "that increase of the pension would only be at the expense of other individuals who would consequently obtain a smaller additional pension." Is that true, yes or no?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u40	With regard to Mr Podobnik's dilemma, which is entirely legitimate, I would, however, like to draw attention to another problem which may arise if we do not try to take a step towards greater success of the first pension fund. We need to be aware that we have about 140 million pensions. As we have already summed up many times, the assets of this fund are given. And it would be very bad for the Slovenian financial market and for financial culture a very negative event would be if it were due to the lack of motivation for Slovenian citizens to join the first pension fund. What would happen then? Then a very small number would be applied to what Mr More rightly pointed out: in this case, the property would be divided into a very small number of first-retirement fund insurers and some effect would be achieved, which would also be contrary to the legislator's basic intent. Therefore, I think it makes sense to make an effort to increase the success of this very well-designed project, whose dynamics have so far shriveld somewhat. I think that the successful implementation of this project would then open the door to new instruments in the Slovenian insurance market and contribute to raising the financial culture of Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u42	I think it is right that we have presented all the salaries and once again I would like to say in relation to this weighting, which Mr Podobnik points out, that the deficit is 76,000 of those owners of the vouchers that they have there up to 4,000, up to 1,000 of them is 64,000, so these owners of the small amount of vouchers that will actually have to wait years for them to end up with a rent where this tax relief will implicitly also be. There is no doubt that such a measure, if they decide to sell, will have an impact on the price. All of this will raise the price and implicitly by selling the works, I would say, these tax reliefs they themselves will realize at the moment they sell it. Indeed, in this part of your thinking is justified, it will also be possible for those, the 500 individuals, who have more than 1,000 pensions or those who have more than 20 or 30,000 bonuses, who, of course, will sell it and their price will increase. In fact, it is about weighing the benefits of this measure. My assessment is that it is probably good to have a certain concentration, that, after all, these pensions are more significant, to encourage people to secure an additional pension, to provide an additional pension, as I said, and to ask what is the most optimal limit. Whether this is the case for 10,000 vouchers, including 10,000 vouchers, there was a concentration on a case-by-case basis, and this concentration was also a redistribution of the tax relief. It is a matter of assessing whether 10,000 or 12,000 rents are what is aimed at and is permissible for such tax relief, whether it is 20,000 or 30,000, e.g. in this particular case, so there is no fully uniform answer and I think that is also right. It's just a dilemma weighing on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to add another dimension to this weighing and to all the various issues that we are facing today, and this is the fact that the management of the first Kadu pension fund, even though it is an object, I think that the seven articles in this system law are not defined, so it is not definitive, they are not set deadlines when When will actually justify and manage all these things well. We assigned him assignments, responsibilities, but we don't know what's actually going on in there. However, we must bear in mind that this pension fund has a very special feature. The characteristic is that this is the only pension fund in the Republic of Slovenia, for which the success of the guarantee is maintained. When we talk about dilemmas, how we will increase both the number of beneficiaries on the basis of an extended period or the increase of rights, that some individual may have 10,000 or 30,000 or unlimited, which is completely incomprehensible, we must also have the view that we are also taking on greater responsibilities as regards the effectiveness of pension insurance in this first pension fund, because the state guarantees all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u45	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. Anybody else want some? Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u46	As far as the first pension fund is concerned. The supervision of the first pension fund shall be entrusted to the Insurance Supervisory Agency and, of course, it shall take place and take place. In addition, the capital company also has the relevant supervisory authorities. You're all in charge of this. I can also say that, at the Ministry of Finance, a solution is being drawn up, but even when controls are being unified, as in some Western European countries, an insurance agency and a securities market agency and later that part of the supervision of banks within the central bank would be brought together. This is a project that we will come up with somewhere in September, October, and I hope that it will increase the effectiveness of control across the entire capital market, because it is clear that it needs to be fully monitored because the products are increasingly intertwined in insurance companies, in banks and therefore it makes sense and is also doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Replica, Mr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for this reply, because this also gives me the opportunity to familiarise myself with the amendment tabled by the Members of the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party, which is also an amendment to Article 23 of this Act, which we are amending today, in the sense that it is already starting. True, today we have one special legal arrangement. This is that the insurance agency actually controls this pension fund. The system law was passed later, and we coordinated it in time. We therefore propose that the supervision of the operation of the first pension fund be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Articles 377 and 381 of the Act in SPIZ No 1, since 1999, and that the Court of Auditors review the regularity of the operation of the 1st pension fund each year. The Court of Auditors shall, in its law in Articles 4 and 5, have the obligation to revise compulsory insurance each year. We believe that it is also absolutely necessary because the country has the final financial responsibility in this area to deal with this now. I'm listening, not just for the first time, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, but a variety of promises about the laws that are in preparation and will come once. This sad story that we are talking about in this national assembly today is a fruit of such a delay that systemic solutions are still coming, but there are never any final ones. We are proposing this very change. I hope that the Minister will also support this or the government as a whole. But as for other issues, I would like to come forward again, because I would also like to mention other dimensions of today's discussion when the issue is closed, or 10,000 or 30,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u49	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. Mr Podobnik applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Thirdly, and now for the last time, I will ask again if the representatives of the government will not answer, but I would ask, Mr Vice-President, if the representative of the secretariat would answer. On the working body, when an unlimited number of pension vouchers were proposed, two representatives of the government responded, not to the Minister, so that this could be an argument for the actions of the current holders of Piduvian shares. Now I'm asking if we're going to decide for 30,000, whether you're assessing that the arguments and arguments for the lawsuit are less than or less. The responsible legislator must be aware of the consequences of his decisions. If we were to make a decision and were to be warned at the very stage of our adoption that there could be lawsuits, most likely in this case in the country, we must have an answer to this question before deciding. I hope to get him as an MP.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Two of them were talked into it. Representative of the Secretariat, Mrs. Ogrincheva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u52	In view of the particular issue raised in this discussion, the question, therefore, is whether it is possible to expect actions by existing pension holders as a result of an increase in the limit to which it is possible to replace the pension vouchers for the supplementary pension insurance policy, I think it would be necessary to have a clear answer in this regard to know exactly what effect this new additional option has on all others who, depending on their material possibilities, do not reach this new limit. However, with regard to the precise effects of these changed conditions, I believe that there was no clear answer today and I cannot give it either. If these changed conditions were expected to affect pension holders who did not reach the limit, it would be negative that they would have fewer options only because of this changed condition and would be reflected in their expectations of supplementary pension insurance, in this case of course they would have the right to a certain legal path and to challenge this difference. However, since these reasons or effects are unclear, it is very difficult for me to give a clearer answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič, then Mr. Minister. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u54	On this delicate issue, I have also tried to be a little more convinced of how this is going to be, even in the light of the dilemmas I have seen in the secretariat of legislation. The answer is as follows. Someone who has already concluded insurance in the past has the opportunity to make new insurance and pool insurance policies. So someone who already has insurance is not prejudiced by that right. However, in principle, legally, I must say that the concept of the right acquired legally refers to rights which are already individualised and set out in an appropriate individual legal act, for example in a contract. These are the rights acquired. If the abstractly envisaged right has not yet been normatively defined as a legally secured justification, however, it is not a right acquired. The hope and opportunity for this to happen or possibly to occur is not a right acquired in the legal sense of that word. A critical analysis of what brings good and bad this solution is, in my view, quite critically weighing in favour of the justification of this solution, because we are solving more problems than perhaps theoretically potentially we can also open.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u56	Look, of course, I'm not a legal expert, I'm having a hard time answering that question. The lawsuits are probably always possible. I can't go on saying someone won't press charges. That's why, of course, I didn't want to answer earlier. However, no doubt this solution means, at least for existing pension holders, whether "they are small" or "they are big", plus, of course. Even for those who go to 30,000. I strongly doubt that someone who has a pension card would press charges for potential damages. Of course, it is entirely possible that someone else who does not own the vouchers would not exchange the vouchers to say, "Listen, if I knew this would be the limit, I would believe that the price would be higher and I would invest and trade for the pension vouchers." And that's why I'd like to trigger it. We absolutely cannot say that there will be no lawsuits, but among the owners of pension vouchers, I seriously doubt that anyone will be harmed. So, basically, someone else outside this circle. I think it's just an option and an option that we can't rule out, but it can always happen to us and anytime. The lawsuits are always possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u58	In the debate on the Committee, no one mentioned that the current owners of pension vouchers would in any way initiate any action. Mr More and Mrs Stosicki have explicitly mentioned that changing the conditions for the return could lead to this, because this is an unfair situation, so that certain lawsuits of the holders of the Piduvian shares could arise; this is not about the owners of the pension vouchers, why they would sue because they are at a better level. The representative of the secretariat did not answer that question. The reason why they're going to sue is because the value of their stock on the stock market is much lower than they would have gotten for their pension cards. After our decision today, this difference will be even greater, much bigger, for some, not all. So is this a real option and is this an argument for someone from this point of view to initiate a lawsuit and get it -- this difference, the difference in the value of the pid shares on the stock exchange and the value of the vouchers, at some point.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. If this debate is exhausted, and I see that there are no other answers to the question raised by Mr Podobnik, I would like to return to another dimension which I have set out in my presentation when I spoke on behalf of the Group of Members. I am grateful to the Minister that he has arrived during this time. I forgive my colleagues for having to repeat some of the things I have already said, this time as a question to the Minister. Dear Mr. Secretary! In 1992, the Slovenian State created 2 million small shareholders. Systemic solutions, how to manage them and how to defend the legitimate interests of these citizens and citizens of Slovenia, have been the subject of smog solutions, temporary solutions that we do not really know why they were designed in the first place, although there has already been some targeted interpretation. But the fact is that we created the pids and then in 1999 we adopted a law in this National Assembly with which we opened up a very strange possibility, and this is the possibility that while they have to, because we gave them a very long period of time how they have to comply with the system law that has been created and adopted during this time, we have created an opportunity for them to do something else. By the way, you can become a stockholder. Why this happened, what I don't understand. I promised not to open a debate on this matter, but if you have any explanation, I would very much like to hear it. Because even if we do not debate why the government proposed it at the time, we cannot today avoid a concrete fact that we know what the consequences were. The consequences were that in fact the Slovenian government has turned its back on legitimate interests in all of this or at least one million people created by changing social property as small shareholders. No one defends their interests. Why isn't he defending them? Since, by law, companies are controlled by d.d. is only among the shareholders themselves. These are the supervisory boards. Who's calling them? Yes, majority owners, majority shareholders have this option. At the same time, Mr Minister, we have learned, although we do not participate in the opposition in the various debates you have in the large closed-door coalition, but we have learned in the newspaper that there is actually one proposal in the daily financial journal to regulate these things and that experts have already prepared this, that there are some over 60 articles in the law that are supposed to have over 270 to solve this. The question I am asking you, Mr. Minister, is: Why did the Ministry of Finance propose to the government and the government has adopted - instead of a systemic solution, because it would be a logical first step before we even debate these things - an extension of this unfortunate situation that has actually caused this sad story that we are debating today? Why is there still no systemic solution? Second question: Is the government ready to support the additional amendment created by Nova Slovenija and the SDS Parliamentary Group, which immediately prevents the further transformation of pids into d.d. and thus placed under the supervision of the Securities Market Agency all those pistachios that have already been modified and, of course, also the financial holding companies that are dominated by them. We do not know what the reasons why this national assembly today should not be responsible for finding a solution to this problem that is evident in our society. Why we are still delaying and waiting for a law that is supposed to be written, very professionally, to come into this national assembly. In the opposition, we estimate that the time is today, not tomorrow, and we see no more reason to delay it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u62	If you don't mind, I'll try to explain some things about what you said. Pidi was actually created because of the specific privatisation we carried out in Slovenia, which was a special privatisation model, which I can explain for a long time. My assessment is that this is one of the better privatisation models that has been in Europe. All were poor, it was the least bad and gave relatively very good results, which is also due to the very long-term adoption of this law and the verification of all the options that have been given. This is also acknowledged today by foreign experts. In fact, this privatisation model has had extremely few negative effects on the economy and has introduced and led to a corporate structure that is relatively effective, and it has proved, as well as empirical research, that companies previously privatised by this model are also relatively more effective. I can give you a lot of arguments about why it made sense to give a pike and why it made sense to go to the pyjamas. We had an alternative between commercial, non-commercial privatisation and so on, a long story. We have found an intermediate concept that is much better than in Hungary, I believe that even better than in Croatia is better than in Poland than in the Czech Republic. Some of the models were pydas. In fact, the problem of pids was this and it is still that they have very different papers in their portfolio in the structure of their investments. Very different securities, some are marketed, others are not marketed. And, of course, it is not possible to demand from pids that they only have market papers, because it is the fact that they received different ownership shares from privatisation in very different companies. In those cases where they have a very large share of market paper, it is, of course, reasonable to fully standardise pids and move on to a structure as usual in Western Europe, i.e. to mutual funds that are open funds. This means that in the background they actually have coupons and are liquid. You know that. In this case, it is stipulated that the paper structure is 90:10 to have a maximum of 10% of non-marketable paper, 90% must be marketed, that is to say immediately replaceable on the market of securities, liquid, current, opposite and daily ability to determine the value of each coupon and therefore, in fact, a very safe investment for those who own coupons. On the other hand, go ahead, and this was a transitional solution. Consciously, it was decided to allow for the transformation of pids into ide, these are classic investment funds, close ends - so-called investment funds that have shares. However, they have a prescribed investment structure, at the beginning of 60% of the market paper 40% of the non-market paper, which of course means that they have more, I would say non-typical and "problematic" papers in terms of determining the current stock value. In the draft law under discussion, it is relatively hard to predict that within three years also go, which are close end, which are thus closed and have shares, go to this structure 90:10, that is to say to reshape. Which, of course, is a specific problem. This forces them to achieve, of course, within three years of either the sale of shares or the replacement of shares for market papers, that some companies start to be quoted in an organised securities market and thus become a paper marketed and structure 90:10 is established. We believe that of course we cannot say overnight: "Listen, you who have 60:40, go cartwheel at 90:10." Impossible due to numerous impacts, immediate, on the securities market and the financial system as a whole. However, the fact that pids received such a large number of non-market paper companies whose shares do not qualify to be listed in this mold was not possible to bring this stock into this scheme and was therefore the last exit of a financial holding where non-market paper appears and therefore this is a shareholder company. We are aware that in this sense financial holding can be problematic because it is specific. It is so specific that it has a lot of very small owners that all modern market countries, modern countries, protect them, and we need to protect them. In this context, I would say, I support your discussion that it is necessary to protect them, but I do not believe that they are possible with some amendment, because we can do a harmful act, in short, to force them too quickly to go into these changes. That is why we are in this proposal - of course, you will tell me that this law is not yet in place and that I am talking to you about solutions that are not yet there - and these discussions have already been and, as you have seen, some of the owners of the DSU have not been very excited about them and have been able to tell us a lot of things so far. The idea is that ten years after they go to a financial holding company - this will be discussed - it will keep the financial holding agency in control of the securities market, that it is possible that they go when they have only 2% of the market paper and all the rest have non-market paper. And what seemed very meaningful to us, and we are thinking about this, is that the mechanism that we have in the takeover law that protects minority shareholders would be sharpened in this case to protect small ones. This is a mandatory takeover mechanism. You know, in the takeover bill, to protect minority shareholders, we predicted so-called "mandatories..." when it buys25 and one share. In this case, we believe that it makes sense - and of course, the representatives of the DSU object - to lower this threshold. This means that when someone comes to a lower share, the discussion is 10%, they should immediately offer all the shareholders, all the small ones, the purchase of all the shares. That means we'd actually keep him on that level. To anticipate some of these mechanisms to protect small shareholders, to control this structure for another ten years, whether it is actually a financial holding company. What is more, it is an objective circumstance. There are so many non-marketable securities and we cannot turn these non-marketable securities overnight into markets because it is such a structure and nowhere else in the world are all companies on the market. But the peds got all the companies practically got all the companies, so we can't force them, we don't know that they're forcing companies to go to the stock market, and it doesn't always make sense. This is a very complex issue that we will discuss. We had a dilemma as to whether to put this at this European meeting, and this dilemma still exists, or whether at the European meeting we are dealing with, in fact, with ZIZLU, especially those articles which are European, because we have an obligation under the Association Agreement to adapt certain articles very quickly. This dilemma is, in fact, present that only European articles are being processed at this July session. However, these solutions are and the discussion is already under way and will already take place in public how to control financial holding companies in this respect. I would suggest, however, that Mr More might explain this part that you have proposed regarding supervision. Now we've further studied this amendment of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the amendment to Article 23, I certainly believe that there is no dispute, and we also agree that control is to be regulated as transparently and effectively as possible. In this sense, we believe that we can open and is an indisputable second paragraph of your amendment, which says that the audit of the regularity of the operation of the first pension fund is carried out every year by the Court of Auditors. I believe that this should not be disputed and could also contribute to transparency and effectiveness of controls. With regard to the first paragraph, however, we consider it unnecessary. Article 23 of the First Pension Fund Act, which deals with the supervision of the management of the first pension fund, states that the supervision of the management of the first pension fund shall be exercised by the supervisory authority responsible for the supervision of insurance undertakings. It's basically managed by an insurance agency. In this respect, it is very clear. In the second paragraph, it then states that the provisions of the law governing the supervision of insurance undertakings shall apply mutatis mutandis to the supervision referred to in the preceding paragraph. Therefore, I believe that here your basic intention to equalize the control of pension funds with the supervision of the first pension fund has already been traced. I don't think it's necessary or even necessary to go by introducing Articles 377 to 381 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act here to cloud the situation. In the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we have two possibilities for pension funds: pension funds and society. The first is supervised by the Securities Market Agency and the other by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Therefore, we feel that paragraph 1 is not necessary. On the other hand, I think I could contribute to transparency.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, if you'll excuse me. I think we are already going beyond the general debate, where we should, however, focus on the objectives and principles of the law. If I may, I would like to conclude it, because we have actually already discussed Article 2 and we should not, in fact, discuss this in the context of a general debate. If anyone wants further information on the objectives and principles of the law and not on concrete solutions, we will reopen and reopen each amendment in the second reading. So I ask if anyone else wants to discuss the objectives and principles of the law, I give him my word, then I will conclude the debate and we will go to individual articles and amendments. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is exactly the question that I have raised with the Minister on the objectives of this law. If the purpose of this law is merely to extend this legal basis for all that we already have, then it is totally unacceptable for us. What is the purpose of marriage? The purpose of the law must be to solve once and for all these systemic problems that have arisen so far. That's not the government's proposal to make. Of course, in specific articles. I don't know how to discuss the objective, not to mention the real problems we are facing today. I would ask the Minister, regardless of what the objectives were, but what the problems are. There he says that maybe for a session, for a European session and that it would still be or I don't know when it would come. According to our assessment, this is an essential European law in the sense that it must apply the scope of the rule of law even to those whose interests have not been defended so far. This is Europe on Slovenian soil. And we need to solve this today, not some session that we don't know when she'll be here. I read in the paper that you're ready, Mr. Minister, why we're not still dealing with this today. Why do you propose to extend this legal framework, which is obviously insufficient? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Dr. Bajuk, you have opened up here a wide range of topics and topics relating to another law, ZIZLU, and I am pleased that you want this law as soon as possible, because this means that we will deal with it as soon as possible and that the National Assembly will probably also, with your support, find time and priority for that law to be dealt with as soon as possible. Today, however, we are discussing the law on the first pension fund, and this law deals with exactly the subject covered by these two articles. Given the actual state of affairs and the situation with regard to additional assets, it is only reasonable to make these two extensions. And that's exactly what we're proposing. We're just solving specific problems. As far as these systemic problems you're talking about are concerned, I agree. They must be discussed and already within the coordination of the resources. I believe he'll be in the National Assembly. This law is not really the area and the place where these topics are discussed, which are legitimate, which is worth discussing and which we will discuss very much. It is a very extensive system law, which is very complicated, which is not simple, which is by regular procedure and cannot be solved in this way. Except for that work, Mr Podobnik, that you will not draw me for the language of course concerning European work, and it is only about adapting the legislation that is ours, the European one, to the specific directives.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, I hope that my words do not sound to you to be incomprehensible intolerance, but such answers as I have received from representatives of the government today and also from you have already been heard in this National Assembly. Let us recall only one matter that was at that time, and it is still very important, and this is a question that I have asked representatives of the Ministry of Finance, December of the month, the transformation of BTC and the role of the Agency for the Market in Securities. You were not here personally at the time, but the Secretary of State who was said, "We will answer you in writing immediately." There's no answer today. So, by insisting on my proposal that we must solve such systemic solutions as we have proposed today, I also have all this in front of my eyes, that we speak, I get answers, statements from the government, because I agree, you are right, and that is really a problem, and then there is five months of silence and we know nothing about it. At the same time, however, there are many strange things that we read about in newspapers. I hope the government reads the papers too. I asked you, Mr Minister, what is your position on our proposal, to amend Article 33, because this introduces a solution, a systemic solution immediately to be banned today when this law is enforced so that the pids do not have to change into d.d., but will have to comply with the system law as envisaged. That's what they say. Let's get this option out of the way in 1999. The second part of this is that those who have already changed are required to become immediately subject to the supervision of the Securities Market Agency. This is a systemic solution in our assessment that does not await 66 members of a law, which you cannot reconcile with in your discussions in the great coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, I think I made myself clear before. We will open a large-scale debate on your amendment to Article 2 when we consider the article. If we have concluded the debate on the objectives and principles of the proposed amendments, I am concluding the general debate and moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 13. 6. We also received the amendment of two parliamentary groups, the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia to Article 2, which is not in the review. I am making an amendment to the new Al to discuss and decide. a member whose proposer is the Finance Committee. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and move on to a decision on the amendment of the Finance Committee. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article A1 have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for the new B1 article, and the proposed amendments are sent to the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. Mr. More, would you like to answer? Here you go. We've discussed this and I want you to have this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u71	I mean, if necessary, I want to repeat my position again. In fact, I do not believe that the first paragraph of this amendment is necessary because this matter is already governed by Article 23 of the First Pension Fund Act. As for the second paragraph of the amendment, I repeat, we do not object.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I am pleased with this comment, but we believe that the first is that we can replace this amendment with the second one, but we think it is unnecessary, because if this first provision cannot harm and it is only a slightly clearer definition, which, according to our assessment, is certainly, and more precisely, I do not think it can harm. And if the government agrees with the content of this amendment on the one hand, then I see no reason why we should replace it now. So I ask the government whether it thinks the first one is hurting or just unnecessary, because according to our assessment it is necessary and we think that this amendment is all right, and I ask for its support.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. More, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u75	So this amendment, not only is unnecessary, but it also essentially sets a lower degree of clarity than I said earlier in the previous debate. We already have a very explicit and clear description of how control is carried out in Article 23. Allow me to read again: "The supervision of the management of the first pension fund shall be exercised by the supervisory authority responsible for the supervision of insurance undertakings." So it is perfectly clear which institution is responsible. Moreover, in the second paragraph, it is said that supervision is carried out by this entity by applying provisions governing the supervision of insurance undertakings. So I would say, this issue is perfectly clear, unequivocal, uniformly defined. The amendment, however, introduces ambiguity in the first paragraph. In fact, Articles 377 to 381 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which establishes two supervisors, namely the Securities Market Agency over the Funds and the Insurance Supervisory Agency over pension companies. Thus, we believe that the adoption of the first paragraph of the amendment would be in conflict with the first paragraph of Article 23 and also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Respectable motioners, just a business explanation before I give my word to Mr Bayuk. Since we are in a rapid process, the proposers can also orally amend the amendment by submitting a written amendment to their amendment. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u77	Just an explanation from the Secretary of State. I would like to ask him whether the actual securities market agency is exercising this control. This is a specific question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Undersecretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u79	There is certainly a legal obligation to do so. As far as we are aware, at the Ministry of Finance, the Insurance Supervisory Agency is also actually exercising this control. As I am informed, the "hearing" of the members of the capital company administration in this regard will also take place in the short term. As we are aware, it is essentially reviewing data and balance sheets on how effective this control is and how it goes in detail, but only the Insurance Supervisory Agency could report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u81	On behalf of the proposer, given that you indicated this possibility that we could do so orally, the first paragraph of the amendment for the new B1 would therefore be deleted. Only one who is acceptable to the government remains.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I ask the motioners to make the amendment in writing. The amendment therefore reads: "Article 23 shall be amended to read: 'The Court of Auditors shall carry out an audit on the regularity of the operation of the first pension fund each year'." Fill it up. So, Article 23 is completed like this. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u83	I wanted to discuss this very issue. Because if you took it the way you originally said it would change by saying it, then we'd run out of part of the article. It is therefore necessary to supplement this text in such a way as to add to the remaining text of Article 23 what colleagues propose in point 2 of the present text. In this case, I think it's acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Please quote the motioners also paragraph for which they want to add. So it'll be nomotechnically correct. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u85	Now I have to improvise. But I'm definitely going to try that. New B1 Article: "Article 23 shall be supplemented by a new third paragraph, which reads: 'The Court of Auditors shall carry out an annual audit on the regularity of the operation of the first pension fund'."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ogrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that Article 23 has two paragraphs, this only needs to be supplemented. In short, a new third paragraph shall be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I think it's clear. I ask that the applicants submit this in writing. If anyone objects, we would move on to a decision on such a modified proposal by the two groups. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment for the new B1 article in the amended text, as amended by the motioners. We're voting. There's 63 of us in attendance. He voted 62 against no one. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article B1 have been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 1 and on the three amendments to Article 1. Under 1 is the amendment of the SDS and New Slovenia parliamentary groups. Under 2 is the amendment to the amendment to the amendment of the Committee to the first Article of the Group of Members with the first signed Blaž Kavčič, with the remark that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer for the new Article 1a under point 2 and, if adopted, the vote on the amendment of the Committee for the new A1 Article is irrelevant and under the 3 amendments of the Committee on Finance. I'm opening a debate on all three amendments. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 64 of us present. 20 votes against 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment to the Committee's amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. It was 31 votes against 16. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 3. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. The vote was 11 to 33. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment under 3 has not been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now adopted an amendment to the Committee's amendment under order number 2, but we have not accepted the amendment of the Committee. This means that the amendment under order number 2, this is an amendment to the amendment of the committee, has not been adopted. We decide on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. The vote was 43 to 16. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. As the amendment to the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed Blaž Kavčič has not been adopted, the third-party amendment to the new Article A1 is also irrelevant under Article 2 for a new Article 1.a. We therefore have only one amendment for the new article 1.a on page 3 of the amendment review. In particular, under order number 1, of which the finance committee is the proposer. I'm opening a debate on this. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 58 of us present. They voted 3 to 37. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article 1a have not been adopted. There are no more amendments in the review. However, you also have an amendment to Article 2 on the bench as foretold. I therefore open the debate and decision on Article 2 and on the amendment to Article 2 of which the proposers are two groups of Members, the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Ogrinchev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This amendment for Article 2 proposes an amendment to Article 33 of the current law. This is how Article 33 is to be fully amended. In view of the fact that Article 33 deals with the way in which authorised investment firms are transformed, it also provides for the possibility of being transformed into a regular shareholder company and the purpose of the applicant is to be abandoned. However, I would point out that the current text of Article 33 on the envisaged method of transformation is referred to in Article 143a of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. This Article lays down the conditions for the conversion of authorised investment companies, so that this content must, of course, be assessed in relation to Article 143a of the Investment Funds Act. These contents are linked. So if you want to do this, which is the intention of the proposer, then of course you have to cut it down also in 143.a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. This comment by the secretariat is welcome, but it is final when we note the consistency of the text with the amendments adopted and thus the possibility of a harmonisation amendment. Of course we'll do that if we have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. More, please. Then Mr. Squirrel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. As regards the amendment to Article 33, it is therefore necessary in the first paragraph to require authorised investment firms to comply with the provisions of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act in that part which defines investment firms within 12 months of the amendment and the addition of that law. So, substantively, this means that the adoption of this amendment would exclude the possibility of transforming the pids into financial holding companies. This is understood because it says that they must comply with the provisions of the ZIZD on investment firms. The law itself, ZiSD, has two forms, an investment company and a mutual fund, so that it would be explicitly understood as preventing the transformation into holding companies, which we believe is unrealistic in view of the reasons already given by the minister. Secondly, also design, and the second content is shortening the deadline to twelve months, which is in fact also from the government's point of view somewhat short given that the actual assets were provided only at the beginning of this year. So we believe that, in fact, this amendment is now contrary to the government's amendment, which talks about the deadline by the end of 2003, and we believe that it is unrealistic in the substantive work.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. In fact, Article 33 of the First Pension Fund Act in the first paragraph states that authorised investment companies must either comply with the provisions of the ZISD on investment companies within three years of the application of this Act or be transformed into a regular company. What we will achieve with this amendment is that the option created by the adoption of this Article will actually be eliminated, it will no longer be possible to do so and we will have to comply with the system law as envisaged. And one year, respected colleagues and colleagues, after three years they have already had, it is sufficient in our assessment that this can also be shaped. Therefore, the only thing that is being done is the possibility of creating shareholders outside the control of the Slovenian state, which does not ensure that the legitimate interests of small shareholders are defended by such an approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. More, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much for that explanation. This just confirms that I correctly understood the intention of the first paragraph of the amendment to Article 33. I'm telling you again. I also believe that, as a basic guide, that most pids would be transformed into either an investment company or a mutual fund, is correct. But the fact is that reality is what it is, and that pyrrhes have a large or large part with non-marketable assets. However, the provisions of the Investment Funds Act require 90% share of market investment for mutual funds and 60% for investment firms, by assessing that although the direction is the right one, in all cases this will not be possible or meaningful, especially since that means, I would also say, in a relatively short time, it would represent a very large sale of this property, which would not benefit the shareholders themselves again. In fact, if such a large percentage of market investments were to be reconciled in the short term, this would probably result in the fact that this coordination would sometimes be to the detriment of the shareholders themselves. So I repeat. We believe that the options for transformation into holding companies do not make sense to close completely and that this is also unrealistic. For this reason, we oppose Article 33, paragraph 1. However, as the introductory debate has already been, in preparation or already prepared a draft law, ZiSD, which will fully address the problem of restructuring in the direction of the solutions previously referred to by the minister. In fact, these solutions go in this direction, to the greatest extent possible, to transform the pids into investment companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please. Excuse me, Mr. Squirrel, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Sponik raised his hand and that's my fault. I'm sorry, both of you. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. This amendment was tabled today; I didn't have it on my desk and I looked at it right away. Look, this amendment eliminates the choice of transformation into ordinary equity companies. It seems incorrect to me to do this now, because some pids have already done it and we will have a double situation. As far as control is concerned, of course there must be control, but - now I'm going to risk some replica - here we have different vats. There are other companies, like Istrabenz, but who's in control? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why focus everything on you? However, I would like to comment on something else, and I would also like to risk the disapproval of my fellow Members, in the sense of my previous debate. See, you wrote that "to date, the possibility of pids being transformed into ordinary stock companies or dissociating themselves into an investment company and a normal shareholding company and on the basis of the meaningful application of the provisions of the Company Act being linked to holding companies, in practice already shows a number of negative consequences for the development of the ownership structure of the Slovenian economy and thus for the overall further economic development". This one's a little tough, isn't it? But will the fact that this transformation has taken place now be one of the key arguments for the problems facing Slovenia's further economic development? I think it's a criminal assessment. Perhaps this is the case. Please don't generalize. So, even if there are irregularities, they need to be removed and alerted. But not with such a direct amendment to literally attack the system we have adopted. I agree that the property of small shareholders, who have traded their property certificates for pid shares, is insufficiently protected. Do you know what needs to be done, colleagues and colleagues? There's a need for awareness. Let this debate also be an invitation to small shareholders, it is more than a million of us that we will be responsible for understanding the role of the small shareholder. A small shareholder has to take care of his own assets. This amendment, however, literally removes this possibility or shortens the deadline. In the previous performance, the Minister of Mag. The robbery gave an exact cut to what possible solutions to the system law, the ZiSD. And in this law - if that will be the case, we can even consider it by summer, by July - although I assure you that this long topic and the government of this law will not give priority until the end of July, but this would be the case, but not that today, in this law, with such a radical solution, they will observe a system of transformation that is taking place. I won't support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course, there is a possibility that this proposal is not perfect, but - what do we have as an option? As an option, we have an extension of what we have so far and a renewed promise that this will not be a "flickar" and that perhaps, if it is a European or I don't know what it will be like, whether it is European or not, we may get it on our bench. Then you tell us, yes, of course there are problems, because the value market agency, only if it's on the stock exchange, but if it's not on the stock exchange, it's not. I ask you as a representative of the Slovenian government: Who cares if it actually protects the interests of small shareholders in this country? Are we all hiding behind the various holes that exist in our legislation? That's a key question. What happens today to one small shareholder who has invested in one large capital company and large shareholders have decided to invest large sums in the former Yugoslavia. We already have difficulties with certain investments made by Nova Ljubljanska Banka months ago, which we have also warned this National Assembly. And we already have problems. Who defends the interests of a small shareholder? And when we're gonna do it. Because this is happening, we already know from 1992, we knew something, in 1996 we knew, we knew in 1999 when we created these holes. Today, we know what the consequences are, and we do not want to face them. If our proposal is not correct, please correct it. However, it is not acceptable in our assessment that we must endure only the extension of this situation that has brought us into this sad situation that we are in today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I hope that Mr Bajuk will believe that he would truly like the protection of small shareholders to be enforced. If not, we can go watch a lot of magnetograms where I won't say it for the first time. However, I must say that the proposal that makes this is not certain that it does. Really, to be honest with you again, I'm not sure that's what this is all about. Since Mr Bayuk, the problem of special investment companies is always the problem of small shareholders. All the time. But in order for small shareholders in authorised investment companies to be protected in any way, this country, this government, when we were in it and when we weren't in it, and this state council didn't do enough. We had cases, I got these, it was just one area where I got a lot involved. Because I was also a member of the Property Committee and we discussed and adopted all these laws there. We are at some stage, I know, the government came and said, "It's ugly, it's ugly that the owners of management companies abuse their position and gain a lot of income at the expense of their property in management companies, while at the same time shareholders in authorized investment companies lose value because it went down somewhere, up and down. I remember my debate. I said it right back then, it's true, it's ugly, but gentlemen from the government, what's the proposal to change that. Because the system of pids has actually ensured and enabled this. Because it guaranteed them a certain share of the cash and a certain share of the shareholding over a certain period of time. And until we settle this, it's been so long this legal wealth that it's very stupid and strange to hear, but in a way it's legal because no one has acted unlawfully. However, contrary to certain moral principles, I also think that either first or second, it doesn't matter now. I think it's against some moral principles. It's just, this problem with that, I'm afraid it won't be solved. I'm afraid he won't be saved. I would like to ask my colleague Bajuk if he can help me and explain why this will be resolved by keeping investment companies as they are, and there will be no possible transformation into a share company, and I agree with the shareholder society that, above all, large owners have an influence because it is such a governance structure. I just want to say that there remains the same problem that this amendment will not solve in the management of authorized investment companies that it does not. As a rule, he's gone because he's tens of thousands. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The shareholders there have no role to play. [[...]] None. Some tried to organize. They tried to organise themselves in, I'd say some form of influence, but it failed because everyone was desperate because no influence and no information could be provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Comrade Run, I am grateful for your understanding. I see that you have really understood what is at the heart of this proposal. I am well aware that with one amendment, with two paragraphs, we cannot solve the whole problem. I'm sure you don't. Nor can we expect to be able to create a solution overnight, such as what we have read, which has been working for more time, in which experts from Slovenia and abroad have been connected, with 277 articles, of which 66 are only focused on this issue. What this amendment achieves, I hope that with this amendment I will achieve your support, is to prevent further transformation, that we will have more of the phenomena we have so far. Of course, this is not a definitive solution. It certainly requires and expects that the government will come with such a proposal to this national assembly and that we will not look again in three years, either us or our successors, how unwisely we did then, that we did not demand a systemic solution and that we allowed things to continue to evolve in the wrong direction. I'm well aware that this isn't the final solution because it can't be. It can't be. I can't, nobody, if you list me with all this support that the government's professional services have, create a new code overnight to defend the rights of small shareholders in Slovenia. But we know it exists. But the fact is, it doesn't come in a day. Well, this marriage was at first reading in 1999, if I'm not mistaken, but it's waiting, waiting -- what's it waiting for? If we once prevent this from continuing this transformation - and this is, as we estimate, the wrong direction, I think that you agree with it - it will require the Slovenian government to bring us that proposal next week and that we will only deal with what we have to, how we will defend what is a fact in our society. Because small shareholders will be a fact in Slovenian society, this is not new. Not only did the country create them with the whole approach, the right approach, as Mr Minister said - I agree that the approach to transform social property was very interesting, interesting on paper. For one million people in our country, this is an empty promise that is yet to be made. We're all well aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts, a replica, please, and then a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u107	Mr Bajuk, I am asking you and the government now whether then it is not the solution to what you are explaining, to say that there is no transformation until the adoption of the system law. Yeah, I mean, I'm sorry, but then it's a solution for me if there's so many open questions. I'm not saying it's the right one, only if there's so many open questions, then it's a solution for me. But not to say that there is no transformation into equity companies, but transformation into investment companies. Because I don't know if it's for small shareholders - I don't know, I ask, but I suppress what I know, even there, small shareholders don't manage, not just in special investment companies, not in others.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Potč, you have actually understood the key intention, it is said, the purpose of this proposal. And I fully agree with this if it is acceptable for all to freeze the additional transformation to share societies until we have a system law to deal with in the National Assembly. And if the government is in a hurry, it will bring it sooner; but I think it is time that we help them make a few decisions, because they seem to have major problems with decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. More, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We certainly agree that the small shareholder issue is one of the key issues. In fact, all the legislation we have in this area, not only in this area, but also in the whole area of financial services, whether it is a banking law or an insurance law, is the protection of either small shareholders or investors or small depositors or those who conclude a contract with an insurance company. So, of course, the question is whether this legislation is good, whether it is still possible to improve it. We also have institutions here to control this. We have a securities market agency, which is already quite numerous today, and of course it is possible to improve further its work. In fact, all activities in this area are actually targeted for the protection of small shareholders, but of course we allow that both legislation and the work of supervisors in this regard are not the most optimal and in this regard we are looking for new legal solutions. One of these is this new law on investment funds and management companies, which was previously referred to by the minister, who will fully save or try to save what is at a given time to be resolved. We can't be too optimistic about this place. In fact, the story of small shareholders in pids is ten years old, it has such different realities and cannot be completely changed by one law, but a system that protects these rights of small shareholders more than it has ever been. And this is now being prepared in the draft Law on the New Investment Fund, the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act and some basic solutions in this regard have already been announced by the Minister today, but there are some that we believe will actually help to pursue this objective, which you have also proposed. However, I certainly agree with previous debaters that, of course, with just one so much simplified solution, we cannot solve this. I'm afraid what I said earlier is that with such a solution we would not benefit small shareholders, but that if they demanded something unrealistic, they would actually harm them. Because in fact, if we force ourselves to go even more radically and say, all pids have to be transformed into i.d. in three months, then if they have 10% of market investments today, the other 90% in the middle of the night will have to sell out, so at any cost, and of course, if they lose their assets, they'll essentially lose their shareholders. That is how I believe that such a solution, although I understand that its intention was to accelerate something to be done, would not be in place and could even be counterproductive. For this reason, it may be better to think about what was also discussed, to be called upon and to discuss as soon as possible the new law on investment funds and management companies, which will actually come up with proposals for some solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Likenik, then Mr. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u113	I'd like to replicate my colleague, Dr. Bayuk, and my colleague Potsch. I believe that merely preventing the possibility of transformation, i.e. into a normal shareholding society, as has already been said, does not directly protect a small shareholder. However, this debate is important because, after a few years, we have brought this topic back to the National Assembly and I propose that, in the context of our procedures, we find an opportunity to first identify what instruments we have to protect small shareholders on the basis of the legislation in force. And there aren't many, we have some. Just so there's no misunderstanding. They're not just little shareholders in pyjamas. We are also small shareholders, whether in Lek, in Petrol, in Krk, in Mercury, there are also many small shareholders. This is a simplified debate that just focuses on the pids. Why? Because the stock values are much lower there, most likely. I'd like to remind you of Tony Blair's book. When he first succeeded in the elections, he wrote a fat program and had some basic points. One was a "stakeholder economy", the other was a "stakeholder nation", a state of small shareholders. That was his direction. Let this be a challenge for our country, not only by challenging how everyone will sell everything. Let them remain shareholders of the Slovenian economy. Let this be an invitation and let today's debate invite these. But you have to be brought up for this, you have to talk about it in schools, you have to write a lot in the media and so on. I would reject the possibility of freezing the possibility of a transformation today. That wouldn't be a mature thing. And in my opinion, Dr. Bajuk, it would also be contrary to the Constitution. It's a matter of procedure, some pids have roles at the agency. Things are changing. One week before, she got all the consent, and the other is in the process. We can't freeze it today, we can't. Because the procedures are running, and it's unfair to those who have already completed the procedures. But there are other ways of controlling it. If you persist, you may be able to see that ZiSD will be dealt with until this year's vacation. There, however, these matters will be resolved in other ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Answer to the Secretary of State first. No, I didn't just suggest that we make one common call to the government to bring one such law first. I'm for a more radical solution. That is, until a new system is considered in the National Assembly, that the old, unfair, unreasonable must no longer be implemented. As for Comrade Squirrel. We didn't ban it. We're not going to eliminate it. If the debate proves that a meaningful transformation into d.d. is under new conditions, then this will also be achieved. Why should we now allow ourselves to continue to be transformed under wrong conditions, or unconditionally, as has been the case so far, which will create new legal bases for certain things, but it would be difficult to carry out. You know, too much has happened in our country to let go of some, and then we'll save it. What are we gonna do about it? Maybe there won't be anything left. What more can we do if we continue to allow things to develop in the wrong direction? Of course, the only solution is for the government to pass this law this afternoon before we conclude this debate. But he doesn't want to do that. Why he doesn't want to do that, it's very hard for me to guess. But I know, and I repeat it for the fourth time, and I know from the Slovenian media that you have this law ready, but you can't make a decision. So, I am prepared to withdraw this amendment, as far as it has been changed to freeze the entry into force of Article 33 as it is, until this National Assembly examines the systemic solution to the transformation of pids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. 18 votes against 33. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 2 as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. It's 34 votes against 3. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against three.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. I am giving Article 3 which has not been amended to discuss and decide. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on Article 3. We're voting. There are 59 of us in attendance. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. I shall also put into discussion and decision Article 4 governing the period of validity of the law, the date of entry into force. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on Article 4. We're voting. There are 56 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 4 is fully adopted. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I note that we should vote in favour of the new Article 1A, paragraph 2, on the amendment for the new Article 1.A, which is not irrelevant in my opinion, as we have adopted the decisive majority of the amendment to Article 1. So the amendment to the amendment of the committee, which says that by adopting this amendment to the amendment, it becomes a meaningless amendment of the committee, not an amendment that we have proposed as a group of Members. Now, given that this formal amendment to the new 1.A Article is unrelated to Article 1 and to the amendment to the amendment to Article 1, I propose that the amendment to the new 1.A Article be voted on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much. For quite some time during the discussion, we have tried to use this expert review, but if you allow, we would use the break that we normally have, it is an hour and a half to define yourself until this statement by means of professional services and then in the afternoon we make one or another decision and finish the second treatment, of course, given the necessary definition to this dilemma of yours. Thank you very much. I'm closing the session this morning. We'll resume at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u119	Your Honor! We continue with the afternoon session. Since I'm going to figure out the concoction, I'd like to ask your attention. I'm asking for your attention, because I'm going to be able to determine the presence in the hall. We're detecting a presence. There are 51 of us present, the National Assembly is adjourned and may decide. Your Honor! In this morning's work, in the context of the second reading of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the First Pension Fund and transforming the authorised investment companies into a question and initiative by Mr Blaž Kavčič, representing the group of Members who have tabled the amendment, in the light of his objection, I have adopted such an explanation of their conduct in relation to the second reading of the amendments, namely, since the amendments are linked, on the basis of an assessment that the amendments are related, I have applied the second paragraph of Article 192, paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of Article 192, which states that, if the proposed amendment is not adopted, the chairman finds that no need to vote on other related amendments because they have lost meaning. It is undeniable that I have also found after the vote that the amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 1 in conjunction with the amendment of the Committee to Article 1 has not been adopted. That is why I also assessed that the amendment for the new 1.A article, which has been linked to the previous article, has become irrelevant and that is why we voted on it. Notwithstanding the assessment, of course, in the case of an amendment to the new 1.A article on a proposal to amend the content and, in fact, the amendment to the amendment of the Committee in relation to the amendment of the second importance, they are, however, linked and ordered such a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u120	I would like to point out that these two amendments, which we are talking about, deal with a completely different issue, even though there are a number of vouchers in both. One Article, paragraph 28, regulates the replacement of pension vouchers, i.e. the replacement of certificates for pension certificates, and this is a secondary matter that has been historically exceeded and we have voted on it. In fact, a procedural error has been made, as we should first propose a vote on the amendment for the new 1.A Article, because the new 1.A Article, which governs Article 30(1), actually regulates the matter we discussed all morning in the National Assembly. Because, on the one hand, the substantive will with the support of the amendments to the amendments to the Committee, which, of course, was not fully enforced when the Rules of Procedure were correctly interpreted, but due to a procedural error, I think it is essential that we also vote on the amendment for the new Article 1a, because this amendment actually regulates the matter that we have been talking about all the time and in which we have not come to the vote at all. It is said that the right to exchange pension benefits for the policy of supplementary pension insurance. With these arguments, I suggest you put such an interpretation to the vote. If the National Assembly agrees, I think it would be right to open or re-elect the new Article 1.A.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, of course, I can also verify my interpretation in the National Assembly. For a more correct decision by Members and Members, I would also ask Mrs Ogrincheva to help us and also to determine whether the amendments are related. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In view of the fact that such a situation arose, the amendment to the amendment, which changes the original limit of 10,000 to 30,000 vouchers, was supported by the basic amendment, which changes the text of Article 28, paragraph 7, but not, in short, was irrelevant. However, the basic solution to the possibility of substitution, namely the scope of the replacement of pension vouchers for the supplementary pension policy, is the basic solution in the second sentence of Article 30(1). While this solution, which I spoke about earlier, contained in Article 28, paragraph 7, is of course only a derivative of these solutions, because here it only assumes, if the right to exchange, that is to say, if the natural person, the owner of the pension vouchers is not active and does not change the vouchers he has for the policy of supplementary pension insurance himself, we assume that he has traded these vouchers for the pension insurance policy, but at a total of not more than 10,000 pension vouchers. In short, these two contents are connected. However, the basic solution is undoubtedly in Article 30, paragraph 1. The mere execution of this claim is the papacy of Article 28, paragraph 7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. It was not an explanation of the Rules of Procedure. I just wanted to confirm my decision on which my explanation was based. That's whether the two amendments are connected. And I give my explanation on the basis of Article 70, my explanation in the decision of the National Assembly. Mr. Anderlich, a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u124	I suggest we try to follow some normal procedure, despite yesterday's impression and this morning's, that I don't know what's going to happen, that there are some extraordinary situations to keep so many cold heads, and we stick to the procedure. And in this case, I do not want to judge which procedure is the right one, even though in the end I will vote in favour of your explanation and I think we will do less damage than we will if we do not accept this amendment. Unfortunately, I voted and the parliamentary group voted in favour of the amendment because we thought we were saving the agreed content and by the proper procedure. This explanation, which Mrs Ogrincheva has now given, has nothing to do with what we are now embarrassed about. So whether or not we can vote again on this matter and whether it can be attached to a third reading of the amendment that would solve this content. I don't think so. And that's why I'm going to support your explanation. And I think we need to look for other solutions. What are they going to be like? Either we don't accept the law, or we go back into the procedure after a reduced procedure, very quickly or in any way, but the rules of procedure cannot be interpreted in such a way that if we "spaved" something somewhere, then we can plug something on the other side. That is why I ask you to give, and this was actually my basic intention to prevent the Secretariat from interpreting the Rules of Procedure now, because it does not explain it during the meeting, and otherwise not, and how we intervene everyone else. The only option is for you to check if the explanation is correct. But on the other hand, of course, I also think that the Rules of Procedure are so clear that it should not be checked at all and not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, just the following explanation. Mrs Ogrincheva has helped me and all of us to identify to the question, which is the previous question, whether the amendments are related. This is content, not an explanation of the Rules of Procedure. And this response was, of course, needed by the amendment's proponents. At the request of Mr Kavčič, I am giving an explanation which I have given, i.e. that since the amendments are linked, my decision to vote on the amendment to Article 1A was without question correct. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing my explanation was supported. Thank you very much. Therefore, we continue with the second reading. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second-reading amendment to the draft law to Articles A1 and B1 has been adopted. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to these articles, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u126	I'm sure we would have achieved more if we had accepted an amendment that we didn't. Since we want to check whether there is any possibility of correcting this or that we should consult before the final decision on the law and not take a break at that time, I suggest we suspend this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much. As we follow these wishes in the third reading at the request of qualified candidates for the preparation of the amendments in the third reading, I interrupt the 16th item of the agenda and move on to reading 10. Agenda items - Another defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr Darko Koncan, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have before you a bill amending the value added tax law for the second treatment. At the first reading and, of course, at the time of this proposal, a number of comments were made, justifications, proposals, of course, on how to regulate as far as possible the legal system of value-added taxation as far as possible in practice, in the implementation of the law in practice, as little as possible as possible, and on the other hand in order to make that basic review possible, why we committed ourselves, in negotiations with the European Union, to carry out the so-called first revision by the end of 2001, and then to carry out a second revision of the system law on value-added tax by the end of 2002. With this first revision, which is now under second reading, we particularly want to fully harmonise our value added tax system with the European legal system. However, the second revision will also regulate intra-communal transport, which will, of course, be the subject of discussion in the coming months when the government prepares this second revision. I would like to say that most of the proposals and also of the debates, not only in the current procedure, but also in the public sector, concerned that some exemptions, the so-called rights of exemption or the right to a zero-rate exemption, as much as possible would be taken into account where certain taxable goods and services would be taxed at a reduced rate. At the same time, the Government has already prepared, in its first reading, basic information on how and to what extent a reduced rate could be applied as an exception to the general level, and in what sense also injustices and true exemptions operate. In view of the series of substantive comments and proposals made on this basic information for the second reading, we have prepared additional information where we have further clarified all these substantive proposals from the point of view of the impact, in the final stage, both in terms of fiscal, financial and economic consequences, not only for the State and its budget, but also for the debtors, for business operators as such and ultimately also for consumers who are essentially economic operators in paying this tax. All of this is very thorough and widely explained in these two informations. I believe that this has also been reviewed and taken into account. And for this reason, the government also rejects, practically rejects all the substantive proposals made in the form of amendments to implement a reduced rate or to extend an area where they could apply a reduced rate of taxation, as well as some amendments concerning so-called wrongs and the right of exemption. There's only one thing to say. When, at any time in the tax system, attempts are made to pursue certain other than fiscal objectives, fiscal systems must be considered in theory and practice, even on the basis of experience not only of the theory that fiscal objectives are always pursued in the long term, while other objectives, such as social policy objectives, family policies and any other objectives, can only be addressed in the short term. For this reason, we also had this in mind when we explained in these two informations, and that is why, as a government, we reject all these proposals. Finally, the following should be mentioned. At the end of 2001, we concluded negotiations in this area in view of the negotiating points for the area of 10 - taxation - and we have essentially closed this negotiating area. From this point of view, which is not last but extremely important, the government cannot accept and does not support the solutions proposed by these amendments to threaten our actual entry into the European Union, because this would indisputably open this negotiating area and lose all the time and content advantages that we have achieved in the negotiations so far and when we have closed this area of taxation. On individual matters which have already been discussed in a boisterous manner, and in particular on the home committee, and if there is a need for further justification for individual proposals, then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Please, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u130	President, thank you so much for your word. For the rational work of the National Assembly, because we have only two points open - one point is in the second reading and one in the third reading - I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues to support the procedural decision so that we can work today so long that we can also conclude these two points and have an extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u131	Thanks for the suggestion. Anyone wants to talk about this proposal - I'm sorry, there's no discussion here. I'll have this proposal checked out for you. Is there another procedure? Please, Mrs. Areh.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just want to say that we have an infrastructure committee at six. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u133	This now does not play a role; if we conclude, we will work if not, and we will see when that happens. This procedural proposal, which I agree with myself, I am putting to the vote. We're voting on him. Only 38 of us are present. There's more of us in the hall. I'm going to repeat the vote and I'm going to ask for your attention. Secondly, we will vote on this procedural proposal. We're voting. 44. Can you do it again, given that two of your friends are here now? Then I spend 10 minutes of rest and after 10 minutes - so, at 15/10 we continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u134	Colleagues and colleagues, it's been 10 minutes, we're moving on with the meeting. Thirdly, we will vote on Mr Mojet's procedural proposal that we continue to work today until we have finished both items of the agenda. I put this proposal to the vote. This is the third time we've voted. There are 54 Members and Members of Parliament present. The vote was 31, 17 against. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 17.]] The procedural proposal has been adopted. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mr. Pucko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government. This law dealt with the mother’s working body at two sessions and two follow-up sessions, which discusses how important changes in the law are. In the discussion, the members of the Committee expressed their opinion, with the general support of the text in principle, that, despite the reasons given by the proposer, certain solutions in certain areas, which are precisely because of the high level of value added tax for certain activities in a critical situation, could be better regulated. The members of the Committee also lacked a comprehensive analysis of the individual knowledge, impact of the implementation of the law on individual activities and sectors, although some analyses of individual industry associations are known. In doing so, the Committee adopted its amendment to Article 15, which speaks of a certain lower tax on domestic and artificial products, since the recognition and promotion of Slovenia can still be demonstrated through artificial craft products. It was also mentioned that excessive restrictions on certain areas, for example, could lead to premature decisions requiring later editorials. The following amendments were adopted by the Committee: Articles 11, 12, 15, 16, 17, 21, 27, 41, 46 and 47. I therefore propose that the National Assembly, when considering individual legislative proposals and amendments and additions to this Act, adopt all amendments to the Committee and, like the Committee, reject all other amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u136	Thank you, rapporteur. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? By really inviting you to discuss in this part only the objectives and purposes of the law, because the amendments will be followed by a debate after we go after the amendments. Also because we have adopted this procedural decision to end today. Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Socialist Group of Members, Mr Visiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A nice welcome to the government! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the debate on the Committee on Finance has shown that the government has gone on some unusual path. On the way, it essentially prescribed and prescribed the Sixth Guideline and, of course, introduced everything they know in the Member States of the European Community into possible concessions or a lower tax rate, irrespective of the specifics of Slovenia. This also leads to such nonsense in this proposed novel that a lower tax rate is applied for circus tickets, tickets for amusement parks and the like. This clearly shows that the novel is ready quickly, with its left hand and without regard for what is common to the Slovenians, on which it is based and on which our identity is based and, of course, the failure to respect these legalitys cannot be guided by an appropriate tax or financial policy in our country. We are therefore a little disappointed and appalled at such an approach that on the one hand they find a place in the law circus, but of course other similar things that are known, specific and necessary for Slovenians to mention only Slovenian literature, book and of course science, culture, education - these are, of course, somehow neglected in this segment. Even in this general matter, I would not go to specify and explain our amendment, which I will also present later. I would say, however, that following what the Secretary of State has said is a long-term objective and is not in the short term. I think that the Slovenian book or bearers of the word, image and sound in the field of science, culture, education and art is that long-term goal of developing the Slovenian identity that we must keep in mind daily and, of course, also in the preparation of laws on the tax system constantly. In short, we can only see with this novel that the proposaler did not want to take into account these specifics of the Slovenian space, these characteristics of the smallness of the Slovenian market and he practically entered in and stated everything that is not possible and it is also not meaningful to apply in the Slovenian space. We were very selective when choosing and proposing amendments. We have only proposed two amendments, which we think are the foundation. We have not repeated the exercise from all previous similar treatments, and we were therefore confident that these amendments will succeed. Unfortunately, the Committee on Finance has shown that it is a matter of different interests and wishes of the ruling coalition. In short, a little bit more about the amendments or our proposals to improve this text and thus to care about the long-term development of Slovenia, while explaining individual amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u138	Thanks, mag. A visor. What other parliamentary group would like to present its opinion? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing this part. I'm sorry. Young people's party, you have the floor, Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law that we have before us brings in particular the solutions that are enshrined in the 6th Council of Europe Directive, which must be adopted before 31 December, for which Slovenia has also committed itself during the negotiations for entry into the European Community. In addition to other amendments, the law will also add categories that are entitled to a lower VAT rate. Of course it's clear that you have to stick to the rules if you're going into a club with rules already drawn up. However, during the transitional period, provisions should be in place only from the date of entry into the EU. This would also make it easier to draw out the main interests of our country, which would also be given priority through tax policy. These priorities clearly include the preservation of the nation. The proposed law stated in additional information on the law that Slovenia was able to maintain a lower value added tax in the negotiations until the end of 2007 as part of the country's social policy. At the same time, he also stated in his explanation that introducing a lower tax rate on children's clothing and footwear is not an appropriate instrument to address social differences and manage family policy, since it is a general measure which does not target consumers who would be entitled to such assistance from the perspective of family social policy management. At the same time, it adds that the policy of additional transfers from the budget is a more appropriate instrument to achieve the objectives set. Of course, I agree that building housing is an area that is the most pressing problem for young families and requires a large amount of money. However, at the same time, I would like to point out that a lower value added tax rate should also be introduced for certain products, such as children's clothing and footwear, which now fall below the 20% value added tax rate. Annex H to the 6th Directive lists products and services for which Member States may introduce a lower VAT rate is excluded, which means that Member States are not able to apply other lower-level cases. However, children's clothing and footwear could be taxed at a lower rate at least until the full membership of Slovenia in the European Union, especially since we know that the date of entry is not entirely up to us. This is also the case for recorded media with text, visual and audio recordings. These institutions must be subject to general VAT under the 6th Council Directive of Europe. The reduced rate is recognised only to printed media such as books, brochures, newspapers, and brochures. However, Slovenia will maintain a lower VAT rate for all carriers, i.e. those who should be taxed at a higher rate until Slovenia's full membership in the EU. Following this principle, Slovenia could add to products taxed at a lower rate, including children's clothing and footwear, at least until Slovenia's EU integration, such as the United Kingdom. Natality in Slovenia falls. Different cultural and social factors certainly contribute to this, and the poor social status of young families also contributes greatly. Families with a small child or even more difficult to provide their children with everything they need and want. The cost is increased when children start attending kindergarten or school. The country should strive to keep the costs of clothing and footwear that the child needs as little as possible, especially since children are growing rapidly and changing them quickly. Many parents are now forced to buy clothes and shoes for their children abroad - Italy, Austria, Hungary - because it is much cheaper there, so I think Slovenia should necessarily do so. A small country such as Slovenia should do its utmost to encourage the birth of children, but it is doing the opposite now - not only through social mechanisms but also through tax mechanisms. We will also support the amendment for zero tax rates for books and other works of art. If Slovenia joins the EU, culture will be the very activity through which Slovenians will maintain their national identity. The Slovenian book, which is already too expensive because of the small market, urgently needs relief to be [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] you can buy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u140	Mr. Diaci!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u141	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u142	We're with the amendments. I'd like to ask you for the purposes of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u143	I'll be right with you. Thank you for warning me. Slovenian publishers are now only interested in printing sales successes that enable them to earn, while less defenders find it difficult to find a publisher for their work. Of course, I am talking about printing books in the language of residents of the country of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u144	Thank you, Marko Diaci for the position of the Young Slovenia Party. Does any other parliamentary group wish to present its opinion? I don't see a proposal. I conclude this part of the debate. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. Let's vote, please! We didn't make it for the first time. There's enough of us in the hall. We will vote a second time on this proposal for a decision. Let's vote next time! There are 46 Members and Members of Parliament present. There were 41 votes in favour. No one was against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 13.6.2002. In order to discuss and decide, I am making an amendment to Article 4 of the review. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I am making an amendment to Article 4, as set out in point 1 to the vote. We're voting. 51 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 34. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We will vote on Article 4 in full. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] Article 4 is hereby adopted. I am making an amendment to Article 5 of the New Slovenia Group for discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] Let's go make a decision. We're voting, please. 52 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 37. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. What is it now? Wait a minute! We're voting. At 48, 34 votes against 5. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 5.]] Article 5 is adopted. I shall put Article 11 and the amendment to this Article into discussion and decision. The amendment is proposed by the Finance Committee. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] Let's get down to speed. We're voting, please. 52 Members and Members present. The vote was 44, 6 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. Attending 49. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] The Article has been adopted. I shall put Article 12 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] Let's go make a decision. We're voting. 50 Members and Members present. 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The amendment to Article 12 has been adopted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. 51 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] Article 12 is adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I shall make Articles 15 and 16 of the amendments to Article 15. I'm opening a debate. Mag. Visnik, first of all, you have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to explain the amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party and supported by Nova Slovenije, as provided by the leader of the New Slovenia Group, and are essentially joint amendments. However, it is the amendments relating to the amendment to amend Article 8, paragraph 25 by stating that they also fall below the reduced tax rate of authors, composers, performers, scientists and researchers, as well as their services in the field of literature, art and science. Because with the proposed amendment, we want to preserve the existing enforcement or equality in the taxation of copyright honoraries in the field of literature, art and, I stress, science. According to the Government's proposal, a higher rate of taxation is introduced for authors in the field of science, i.e. for the works of scientific research content and for the services of scientists and researchers. Slovenia is one of the countries which allocate at least budgetary resources for scientific research and development, and with a higher tax rate for authors in the field of science and research and services in this area, development would be even more at risk. This amendment is also explained and argued by the following: both in the budgetary memorandum and in many government documents, it is stated that Slovenia is a knowledge-based society and is likely to want to deprive authors of scientific honours due to irregular supervision in the field of authorial fees or unregulated supervision, what is among the works and, of course, what is a regular activity. We believe that science is not right and that it is the right range for ineffective control to be exercised in the solution that all of this is destimulated by a higher tax rate. We therefore propose that the same rules be introduced for scientists or for the field of science and research and, of course, for all services as for authors in the field of literature and art as it is now. This is the first amendment formally proposed by the Social Democratic Party, or amendments by the Slovenian Coalition. The second amendment relates to taxation of holders of words, images and sounds in the field of literature, art, science and education, where we propose that the value added tax be charged and paid at level 0, with the right to deduct entry tax. According to Article 7, paragraph 25, of the applicable value added tax law, a lower tax rate on value added tax shall be calculated from all holders of word, image and sound. With the amendment of this Article to Article 15 of the novel, a lower tax rate is to be applied only to books, newspapers and periodic information, except for those which include, in whole or in most cases, advertising content. This amendment therefore limits the reduced tax rate to paper media only, and only certain media and not content are promoted in transporting content in the field of literature, art and science on the basis of this provision. We wonder whether this amendment is directed, or this amendment to the law, primarily to promote a sector such as paper and similar, and, of course, does not promote content in the field of science, art, which I believe must be the primary purpose of a reduced tax rate. The proposed amendment for Article 15th lays down for all holders of the word, image and sound in the field of literature, art, science and education the value added tax rate of 0%, with the right to deduct the entry tax on value added. The imposition of a tax exemption on value added tax at a rate of 0% with the right to deduct entry tax may significantly encourage publishing activity, which increasingly overcomes the barriers introduced by economies of scale. On average, works in the field of literature, art, science and education in the Slovenian language cannot become profitable goods. In the most demanding parts, it is not possible to cover even its own price due to the smallness of the Slovenian market, limited to less than two million people. When the Republic of Slovenia joins the European Union, it must maintain or consolidate the acquisitions that have led to the nation or nation on a specific Slovenian path, which has also been pressured by the Slovenian book. The culture of the nation, which can only be developed by means of as easily accessible word, image and sound as possible in the field of literature, art, science and education, becomes a key asset and development factor when integrated into European integration and in general in the globalisation world. With it, Slovenia draws long-term recognition and a city in the world and, of course, in Europe. Thus, the Slovenian word in the book and other institutions in the field of literature, art, science and education is the cornerstone for the development of the Slovenian nation in all the areas listed above. The introduction of a zero value added tax with the right to deduct entry tax cannot in any case undermine the European Union's single market, the demand for works in the field of literature, art, science and education in the Slovenian language becomes inelastic outside the Slovenian market. It is clear that, after this kind of prosperity, the citizens of the European Union will not ask for free competition on the European market, so we will not destroy it, nor will they destroy the translation of foreign works into Slovenian. Slovenia must be able to explain in negotiations with the European Union that works in the field of literature, art and education in the Slovenian word will not endanger other members of the European Union. It must say that the tax advantage will only make a small contribution to the more equitable integration of Slovenia into the development of the European Union. This right has already been exercised by Poland for a seven-year transitional period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u146	Thank you, Master Vizjak. Mr Sok applied for the debate and then Mr Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. In short, I would like to explain at least the amendment under Article 2(2) of this Article, in this amendment, Nova Slovenija proposes that, at the rate of 8,5%, VAT should also be imposed on children's clothing up to and including 14 and all types of children's footwear up to and including 36. So I have read this because I would therefore like to reject the argument of the Government which opposes this amendment by arguing that such a reduced rate could be used in practice. I think that the amendment is so unequivocally written that this fact cannot in any case be exploited, because these are the figures to which this reduced value added tax rate should apply. I would, however, like to draw the attention of fellow Members and Members of Parliament to the following. According to the latest statistics, we have about a thousand more deaths per year in Slovenia than we have births. I think that this matter is extremely critical in the Republic of Slovenia and that our nativity is falling rapidly and that there is also an economic reason - I do not say that this is the only reason, far away - but the economic reason is also one of the reasons why we are so rapidly and rapidly reducing the number of births. So other state institutions are affected by such low birth rates, from kindergartens, education, health care and could still be listed, and I do not understand the Government's arguments and reasons, nor do the committee that do not support this amendment. I think it would be in the best interest of the whole of Slovenia to support such an amendment and actually allow for a reduced tax rate for children's clothing and children's footwear. There are also several amendments here, which we will certainly support in New Slovenia, such as the amendment on copyright for services in the field of literature and science, as well as those talking about the purchase of equipment from humanitarian and other duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u148	Thank you, Mr. Sok. I give my word to Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our Group of Members has tabled an amendment, which is set out on page 5 below point 9. However, I am talking about the reduced tax rate on value added for cut flowers, pots, tubers and everything related to security. How do we base that? We reason that we do not really want to admit that our lives have changed. New professions have emerged, including gardening. You remember, 50, 40 years ago, the theory was that flowers don't belong at desks, but at guesthouses, at hotels. We shouldn't have had gloves on either. Remember two years ago what our newspapers wrote about flowers and the costs our embassies have for flowers. But the flowers returned our houses and homes, hotels, even to the National Assembly. And we don't want the new professions to be created. I also talked about this a year ago when we were discussing the gambling law. New professions have come up, we didn't know about gambling sometimes. And yet, years ago, when we adopted an excessive marriage, we had to fix it last year. However, there are many people living from gambling, as well as the state budget, and it is very strong. The third thing I would mention in this regard is that 11 European Union countries have a lower rate of tax on flowers - 11 countries! - and this much lower than our 20%: from 8, 6 and to 10%. I don't know why we have to be so bad that we have to have 20 percent. And the fourth reason is that every marriage and every job can have exceptions. He's got them. When we were talking about free-carrying shops, I often mentioned what Italy was doing along the border with Slovenia in the field of fuel sales. They sell fuel without paying much of the tax, which is a 10% tax rate compared to our income in stores that we had at the state border, several times if not 10 times higher, and also with flowers, Italians have a 10% tax rate; and a step across the state border, in Nova Gorica, we have 20. One more time like that. I therefore suggest you support this amendment. For as Italy has received a lower rate of fuel tax due to political needs, let us also have a lower rate of tax on flowers, as we introduce and introduce new professions, including in this country of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. These were the views of Members and Members of Parliament to the amendments. And Mrs. Majda Shirca, and then Mr. Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I must also take note of some consideration of this law in fact with very similar amendments to this reference, which, in fact, favoured some serious marking of us Members when the same amendments were tabled, so to speak, in amending the law to the added value, we were those Members and those Members who did not support the amendments tabled by the SDS Group, publicly declared issuers of national interests, democracy in Slovenia in general, and we have been placed in the role of inquisitors, who we are and will be guilty of long-term consequences in the field of protecting cultural interests. I must point out that several times the debates that help publishing turn into contradictions and many times into demagogies, which refer only to one view of the problem. The problem is much more complex than it wants to be presented in these debates. I must also point out that, given that we have already discussed and discussed so much about the national cultural programme, which is intended to help and care for Slovenian identity, this draft national cultural programme does not refer to the possibility that you are now applying through this law, either in a single sentence or in a single chapter. Not to mention that the governments that had the power to deal with the changes we are facing here today have not served this power. I am speaking because it seems to me that it is necessary to demystify this desire at a zero rate and look at her face in those places where such a solution as you suggest can be shown earlier for - I will unprecedentably say - harmful as positive. Why? The proposal to break the 6th directive, which was adopted in the negotiations for chapter 9, which Slovenia has also agreed on in this House, is also said in the National Assembly, would be broken down in such a way as to put the carriers of words, images and sounds in the field of literature and art, science and education in a more unfavourable situation if, at the zeroth rate you propose, you leave the solution to the book - we also point out that you are discriminatingly covering the field of publishing by stressing the Gutember principle rather than the one that is called for in the future. After all, computer records can also be used. In short, what would we break up with? Forgiveness, which covers activities in the public interest, has this problem, and you have also observed in the drafting of amendments that those activities whose tax is exempt do not have the right to impose a deduction of the entry tax. In the amendment, you yourself have taken a step forward with the proposal to include the deduction this time. Which means that if the tonnes were included, which we voted on so many months ago in the National Assembly, the book would be more expensive than it is. Because if no tax deduction is charged, it's more expensive - I'll give you the case. If you have accounts that are VAT-bound for 20 and are for 300,000 SITs, for example, for another 100,000 SIT for 8.5%, the publisher is at a loss for 68,500 SIT. But the question is, in the case of your amendment, if the deduction is allowed - do not allow, I apologize - the whole concept of the or whole architecture of the VAT law, which actually has a completely different philosophy, and I feel that this philosophy in this national assembly is not or does not want to be understood. The European Union, when faced with exemptions, and Slovenia has taken over them, if I replicate your performance, it has taken over them, but only in those places where it is, I will say, paid or where deductions or costs are minimal. In short, the European Union has a clear principle in considering exemptions and reduced and lower VAT rates, by the way, in publishing it must not be less than 5%. It claims and always claims that the public interest is managed by means of targeted rather than general aid, but these are subsidies, not just subsidies, but also other forms. It is also difficult to say that publishing in Slovenia, where an extremely large percentage of books come out on European average, 4,120 titles are already an economic activity, and publishing is, in the early 1990s, the publishers themselves decided to belong to the so-called economic activity. Of course, within 4,120 titles, they are certainly minimal or less necessary for aid or for targeted subsidies referred to in the European Union, not only in the field of publishing, but also elsewhere. And that's what our country does. This is what our country starts with - if I roughly take the notion of publishing, not only the subsidy of books, but I also consider the subsidy of buying literature in libraries, the scholarship, the aid of first results, authors, and so on, that I do not extend all of these items - it subsidizes with about a billion and a half expenses. Surely this is not the optimal option, there are also other options, after all the solutions offered in the above mentioned national cultural programme on the fund, which I think makes sense - it is unfortunate that it has not been further supported by publishers, because publishers, clearly covering the issue of both textbooks and guides or cookbooks, are interested in their overall, including so-called commercial activity, being subject to the zeroth rate in this form, as you now say, by deduction. I would like to point out that the philosophy that we have to face sooner or later is that the targeted aids that the state must decide on - and I think in certain respects it is, we can all have doubts whether these are optimal, they will never be optimal, they will always be too small - but it is clear that subsidies will be directed towards the issue of poetry collections, which, after all, almost no one is buying anymore, domestic humanist literature, but also essayists and so on, but not everything. Otherwise, I would have some comments on the analysis of the amendment that has been tabled, but I do not think that many publishers or publishers are identified in the solutions listed here and honestly say so. Of course, it would be easier to identify ourselves if we had so-called targeted assistance from the State better regulated, but the systems are countless and I wonder whether it makes sense to open an already closed chapter, after all, a chapter that has been adopted here in the National Assembly, which has already been confirmed in Brussels, in a way that does not yet have the right scenarios for solutions and for the consistency that would have taken place in this case. I just want to point out that I am not a traitor of national interest unless I support partial solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Shirtz. I give my word to Mr. Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much for your words. I welcome all present. I miss two people here, this is Mr Školč and Mr Partljič. Speaking of new congregations recently, two gentlemen said that it was wrong to establish new congregations because of the suffering of culture. Here today we have quite a few amendments that we would like to take into account, it is said, we should stimulate culture by supporting these amendments. These are 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 13, and 15 at the end of the day, when it comes to physical culture. And I think if these two gentlemen had convinced their friends, fellow members of the government coalition, that they had taken into account that culture would not suffer, those who voted against the establishment of the municipality of Rence-Vogrsko, which was on the wallpaper at that time, would be consistent today, or that they would not vote in contradiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u154	Thank you. We went to congregations for a while. I don't see any more Members and Members of Parliament, the Secretary of State has asked me to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There have been a number of issues and proposals put forward and, as already mentioned in the introduction, this Article 15 of the Law Amendment essentially covers the present Article 25, which concerns the application of a reduced rate of tax as exceptions within the meaning of the Annex H to the 6th Directive. What we, of course, accepted and wanted to take into account when introducing value added tax, including national ones, as Mr Vizjak said, is what Mr Vizjak today refers to as a reference to circuses in his reply and explanation, because he has obviously ignored that this circus, which is essentially so much in his nose, has been taken into account since the introduction of value added tax itself. It is in this desire that we have adopted Article 9, paragraph 9, when introducing value added tax, which, after a reduced tax rate - as exceptions - applied to all tickets, exhibitions, sightseeing tours, cinematographic, music events, circuses, fairs, amusement parks and everything else listed here. I would understand if this is really the kind of thing that bothers and makes it obvious to the government that it has prepared this novel very quickly, then, of course, it would be worthwhile and I expected it to be proposed that, within the 9th point, a simple ticket for circuses, which are three times, four times a year in this country, would be deleted, but this was obviously not done. I have to say, the novel wasn't ready for quick. The novel has been preparing for over a year and a half. This novel was reviewed by experts from the International Monetary Fund, not in two days, but in 14 working days. This has also been reviewed by experts from the European Union to essentially give green light and confirm what we could also conclude in the final stage of the negotiations on the 10th decision, which will be discussed further by our fellow Secretary of State, Mr Engelman. So it's not true that she was ready quickly. And now, on some of these proposals, which would only make basic conclusions. Although we wanted and very, very unusually, we prepared basic information and additional information on how individual exemptions work. Apparently someone doesn't understand now whether they don't want to understand or if they haven't read it at all, because, look. It was about copyright fees. Mr Vizjak said that if we are now taxing the authors in the fields of science, art and, above all, - as he said - in the field of science, with higher, so at the general level, we will reject science. Who are the authors of the scientific works? The final consumer. No! No! The value added tax is the decision of final consumption. Authorised scientific fees shall be for business entities which, as a cost or entry tax, are deducted. And it actually works neutrally. So the author's fee in the field of science, but also, in particular, as science has said, art and literature, if it's made for business entities, which is basically because it's hard to imagine that, basically or mainly, the authors' fees in the field of science are ordered by natural persons. They are ordered by business entities that pay this VAT and at the same time charge it as an entry tax - it means neutral taxation. So it is not possible for this to work as Mr Vizjak said or as he understands it. Next. About the book. We expected this debate and we need to say. The proposed amendment, not only not only, but also that, as Mrs Shirca has very thoroughly explained, it has brought down the entire value added tax system. Because the zero rate, which means zero tax at the same time with zero percent of VAT, at the same time the calculation of entry taxes, cannot exist in the VAT system at all. There can only be if some goods or services are exported. For it means that, in fact, final consumption is never taxed. It is an indirect tax which always taxes or must tax final consumption. Therefore, the so-called real zero-rate exemptions are nowhere in the VAT system. Why is this not conceptually acceptable from the point of view of the European Union? I have already explained on the parental committee what this would mean if the hypothetical European Union allowed this to happen. Slovenia, when it entered, at that moment meant that, normally, all business entities of the European Union would set up, print and sell books, including foreign books, in Slovenia, which would, of course, constitute total unfair competition with the rest of the European Union. Therefore, the zero rate as such is not acceptable to the whole system at all. However, in fact, it is essential for the book in terms of national interests not to be misused, the government also has in its expenditure or budgetary policy, in addition to the information given by Mrs Shirca - I have received it from the Ministry of Culture today and from our budget sector - a billion 490 million tolars are intended to subsidise publishing and librarian activities. In addition, another 300 million through the Ministry of Education, when essentially encouraged, subsidises librarying after school. The assessment is because it cannot be calculated precisely because no records are kept, because they cannot be kept; the assessment is that all value added tax is for the bearers of words, images and sounds, which covers all the magazine literature - I would not like to use any other expression for this literature - all that is fun and so on is about a billion 900, and most likely this entertainment work is essential anymore. Thus, the government is significantly more subsidising through the budget through the sectoral ministries than by virtue of value added tax it derives from taxable goods and services in this area. And this is the only thing I would define, given the social transfers again. The request and the decision of the Committee on Finance, at the initiative of the Member, Mr Trofenik, to provide information to the government at the time of its consideration in the National Assembly, as far as social policy is concerned, provided that certain matters cannot be dealt with socially in the long term, but how much more is allocated in the context of social transfers. I have information that is most recent this year, 2002 compared to 2001, it is actually increasing or nominally increasing by 19.2 billion more social transfers: as family benefits, parental benefits, child support, child care allowances and all that is going on in these social transfers. This means that it is in this direct way that the aid that is needed in the context of social, family, child policy and everything else that this aid is provided through the Ministry of the Interior. On the other hand, VAT, which is the primary source of the budget, is more than 40%, which is used to raise these funds, so that direct social transfers are intended for this policy, so we cannot resolve this. Social and other policies can always be resolved only in the short term through fiscal instruments, but not in the long term as they would have wanted. In short, because of all this information and supplementary information, it is not economically, fiscally and systematically possible for the government to support and therefore oppose all those amendments to article 15 of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u156	Thank you, Secretary of State Concan. I also give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Engelman, and please, if you can only add to this what has not been said. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I'll try not to repeat myself. I would just like to point out what problems may arise in the area of negotiations if most of these amendments, which are proposed in this Article, are adopted, as well as some of the following. In fact, in truth, they are indisputable from the point of view of the negotiations only two amendments. Those relating to flowers and those relating to car seats. However, problems may arise in all other areas. Why? Slovenia adopted the negotiating basis for the area of taxation first in July 1999, then in the middle of 2000 and last end of September 2001, and then after considerable effort we closed the area in December last year. Slovenia did not require any transitional period in this area. I am speaking from this area in which they are now proposed, because for every area where a transitional period was required, this had to be justified. Since the transitional period is granted, it is granted, it shall be agreed with the European Union only on one condition if the State is able to prove that it cannot adapt to the European Union at the time of entry for these and these reasons, which it also proves by some expertise. Slovenia had no reason to believe that, in fact, it has been in line with the European Union for three years in this area, which was not the case with Poland, which was not the case with Hungary, these two countries have also been able to demonstrate, in accordance with the relevant Directive of the European Union, that they have had transitional periods or different rates for many years and have thus been able to obtain a transitional period in this area. Slovenia, for I say, has no such argument as these two countries, and therefore our assessment is that it is not possible to negotiate such a solution at this time. What would such acceptance mean? I would limit that Slovenia should request opening itself, prepare additional negotiating points and request the opening of this chapter. Taking into account the procedures on the part of the European Union as well, this chapter would essentially open up sometime in October or November, in short, at a time when we practically want to close the whole package. Given that this would mean a complete precedent, a departure from everything the European Union has said about what its negotiating points are, the cannon is that it will not accept a change in the legal order, and this would mean a change in the legal order in their case, because of the candidate countries, there would be only two options: whether Slovenia should then withdraw this request again or not be able to conclude the negotiations. I would also like to point out that, because there are big questions at stake, I will say to whom it is difficult to oppose that the European Union does not, in fact, object to this being properly regulated in Slovenia, so that this does not mean that Slovenia does not give it special weight. However, I would like to emphasise, not if I can say so, on the revenue side of the budget, through the tax system, but it is possible to do so through the expenditure side of the budget, and this will certainly also be the answer that would be received from the European Union. If you want to settle this, no one is defending you, but you do it in a way that is also in accordance with the legal order. This is the expenditure side of the budget. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Engelman. I'd like to ask Mr. Petan and Sok if they have a replica. That's how I got it, if I'm right. Please, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So a similar debate was held six months ago and approximately similar representatives, whether the same government representatives were sitting on the other side. But now they've changed the tactics a little bit. I stopped by now because I think I'm at the 15th Amendment, but Mr Končan has challenged me now. He spoke of some who did not understand, did not want to understand, or did not read. I speak to the first person of the crowd because I disagree with him and then I think he meant me. I want to tell you that I understand what this is about, that I want to understand and that I have read well. But it's true that I can hardly understand certain things, and that's what I'd like to remind him of. Six months ago, we also discussed the means, the purchase of funds and equipment for fire-fighting activities, and this is also discussed by the 15th Amendment. It is true that we have also changed the tactics a little bit and we are not talking about a zero rate anymore, but about a reduced rate. Because if it didn't go through then, maybe there'll be more understanding now. In fact, you convinced us at the time, but that is true, for the "probie", as Styria calls it, that a reduced rate or zero VAT rate would undermine the VAT concept. Today, of course, I no longer hear it, which is perfectly normal for me to expect it. Indeed, it is a fact when you said that this proposal was also reviewed by EU experts. After all, I still believe that's true. Because you are now convinced that even if they are reduced rates and zero rates, this does not undermine the concept of VAT. Finally, we have proved this in this proposal of this law, because there are several exemptions, reduced rates and so on. Something's been prescribed since before. The fact is that there are reduced rates and zero rates. It is said that this is not true, and that at the time, as you called it, you may have misled us whether you wanted to drive us thirsty over water or something. Of course, today other schemes appear as if they were harmful could be harmful if they were reduced rates, if they were not good, if the duties were lower, or even if the tax was neutral. It can work neutrally, only specifically, if we are talking about the 15th Amendment, the purchase of fire-fighting equipment, if a tax has to be paid for it, I don't know how this works neutrally on the financial abilities of those who buy, that is to say, fire-fighting organisations, which must, in addition to collecting money from citizens, then pay the tax. You will probably find it difficult to convince the firefighter that the tax has a neutral effect or a neutral function in this sense. I think that such arrogant behavior that we don't read, that we don't want to understand, I don't think there's any need. But secondly, and here you would understand, if you said, we decided not to do that, so we don't lower the rate, and you can stand on your head and do whatever you want, voices anyway probably don't have enough. You'd understand that. That's just the way it is. But not to say that we don't understand and that we don't want to understand, but that we haven't read. We have read several times, you can believe, and we have tried to find a possibility that for humanitarian activity, for example, a reduced rate, at least reduced if not forgiven. Otherwise, I'm not going to mention those circuses, but whatever, even if it's already been prescribed, even if it's already been copied and it's already in the previous one, in the present marriage, it's so much worse. I don't mind if the reduced rate is also for these performances, let's just not be so arrogant as to eliminate those who work in the humanitarian field, they're trying to raise money to buy equipment so that they can help us all when we need them. And that seems to me to be a rather under-appreciative and unfair relationship. Then you hear you don't want to understand or you haven't read it. That's what I'm trying to say. I don't want to trigger some replicas, because that's not necessary. I think we've talked about this a lot. If we can't convince you in the government, that's another matter, we understand that. We do not understand, however, that you are underestimating us because we want to convince you that it would also be good for humanitarian action if those working on this segment were also forgiven. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] I'll be right with you. Since I will not then comment on the amendment to Article 15, which speaks of a reduced rate of purchase of fire-fighting equipment, I would like to remind you that once again, if what is written here is really more necessary, more urgent or more European than a reduced rate of purchase of fire-fighting equipment. There's so much I'd like to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Petan. And Mr. Aloys Sok. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Given that Mr Končan said that this proposal was reviewed by the experts of the European Union and that they had no comments on this, I would ask you if you could tell me the countries of the European Union in which they have a veterinary health field, two stages of taxation, as with us, are referred to as veterinary services. For example, we have a category of so-called large-scale health care or, if you want, low-level economically beneficial animals, 8.5 for the health care of small animals, dogs and cats, as stated in the law, so-called luxury animals, or as the government understands it, a higher level. So, I don't propose that now, because one amendment to this point is written, we should reduce, but the system that introduces duality in one system brings a lot of impossibility in the system itself and, of course, allows a lot of abuse. So in at least three countries that I have been able to visit at this time since I am a Member, I have asked each time - two are already EU members and the Czech Republic is preparing - and there I was told that they do not know about the same area of two tax rates. Just for these reasons, because this means a lot of trouble in practice. But I can answer myself why, for example, for the health care of dogs and cats, there is a higher rate of contribution, higher VAT. Thus, it is not difficult for economists to calculate how much more money flows into the state treasury, and thus the government somehow eliminates the part that had to be destroyed in the rest of the European work under pressure, meaning essentially one relief for Slovenian agriculture alone, which is in great difficulty. Of course, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is these small pets that represent the entire health care system, including the human being, as regards zoonoses, that is an essential condition and that they contribute greatly to the fact that the epidemic situation in Slovenia is as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Would you like to explain, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Petan. If you've taken this as an insult, which I objected to, then I'll comment otherwise. Then I will read from this supplementary information as an answer to your question and also to the next Member who has asked this question, that I will prove that it is precisely this, that when we have given additional supplementary information to specific amendments and explain in detail why it is not, not only to invoke, which is of course very consistent and relevant, because the legal order of the European Union does not allow us and because we have concluded this negotiations, I will say the following mainly because of the zero level. If you have listened carefully to me, I have stated to Mrs Shirca that the zero rate is outside the system of value added tax, because it is in fact only possible for exports as long as the so-called "destination principle" is applied, the final place of final consumption is hereby declared and taxed in that country. Well, it's not true that we're actually being moved now, and because you've been proposing zero rates for firefighters at the time, and now we're being reduced, and now we're forgetting those arguments. Now that a reduced rate is proposed, I have to answer that. The arguments against the application of the reduced rate for firefighting and all other rescue equipment are based on this title, as the reduced rate is now essentially referring to Annex H to the 6th Directive, which does not allow this solution. Without repeating everything else, I'm afraid he won't allow it. And I can't do it with the same arguments that I was responsible for the zero level at the time. As far as Mr Sok's question is concerned, about veterinary services. As proposed, see in the 6th Directive, first of all, that all veterinary services go at the general level. It is only since 1993 that the EU Commission has adopted a position, due to individual difficulties, that individual countries may make an exception in terms of national interests and that a reduced rate is applied to those veterinary services for animals in a reproductive chain, in economic exploitation, in short, in livestock farming and so on, provided that this is explicitly determined. And we just wanted to take advantage of this, to make it possible, because what I said at the outset is that our country has taken advantage of all the possibilities that are set out in Annex H to use a reduced rate and to satisfy these specific interests. Regardless of what I said earlier, Mr Visjak has told us that we are now using tickets for circuses and other things there. Look, there are some, Italy has this effect. It has such an enforcement and we only wanted to apply a reduced rate in relation to the European Commission's position that, in principle, veterinary services are subject to general and exclusive taxation, if national legislation specifically so wishes, it can be used for those animals used for economic purposes, as is the case with livestock farming, also applies a substantially reduced rate. Nothing else, and we wanted to take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u164	Thank you. And Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. So I repeat to Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to remind you that we still have laws, and we also adopt them, which are not in accordance with the European directives. I would only remind you of the law on public procurement when we adopted it here. Not this year, indeed, in the previous term, but it has been made clear. We are adopting a law that is not in accordance with the European Directive and we are adopting a new law and we have also adopted it. That's the first thing. This is said to be not Europe's fault either the culprit or the main cause if we don't want something. And second of all, it's a solution. If said here, we could also write down and, of course, as from the date of entry into the European Union, it is as the European Directive provides. We have also adopted such laws, and now most importantly, if perhaps your little anti-European law were to be adopted at the time when we first launched this matter in connection with the purchase of firefighting equipment, probably now the firefighters could be quite well equipped, equipped with the means they need, and perhaps now we could be able to change it back, but of course, at the time it was not willful, it is probably even less, today you have the possibility of scaring the European Union, because we have recently such: if there is one thing that suits us very well, especially on the government side, then we apologize to Europe, but it is not always so, unfortunately not. But what I want to say is, if it's will, then you can find any solution that's of course good, in which case I'll say consumer, they're fire organizations. But if we don't want something, of course we can, and I admit it, we find a million reasons and a million things that, of course, bring the matter so far that we don't do those things as well as we might do for the whole country. That is how it is, and of course I understand it in this context, but the fact is that we do not listen on the government side, however we turn the matter around or look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Petan. And one last replica, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u167	Actually, it's just one sentence. I understand and welcome this reduced level of health care and veterinary care, but what I am telling you is the duality of these rates, and this brings to the very system intransparency and the possibility of abuse. I don't want to explain here what abuses can happen. You can just write something else in your account, and then it means so much and so much lower tax rates. And here I say that most European countries - I do not know how they are saved in Italy, nor do I know why we would copy the Italian model - but I know that, let's say, these northern European countries have one. But I'm not pledging now whether it's good that it's 20 or that it's 8.5, but that it's a single tax burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Sok. This concludes the debate on the amendments to Article 15 and brings us to a decision. We will first vote under point 1 on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. We're voting. We will repeat the vote on the first amendment. We'll vote next time. There are 50 Members and Members of Parliament present. The vote was 14, 36 against. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the amendment under point 1 is not accepted. In deciding, I am putting the amendment of the New Slovenia Group under point 2. We're voting. I'm asking for your attention because there are so many more of us in the hall. We will repeat the vote. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under item 2 of the 49 attending. The vote was 13 to 31. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the amendment under point 2 has not been accepted. I am making an amendment under point 3 of the Slovenian Socialist Group. We're voting. 52 Members and Members present. 13 votes against 36. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the amendment under point 3 is not accepted. Since this substance is linked to the new Article 15th, I believe that the vote under point 15a is irrelevant. I am making an amendment under point 4 of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 37. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am making an amendment under point 5 of the Socialist Party's Group. We're voting. There are 52 present, 14 votes against 37. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the amendment under point 5 is not accepted. We are voting on the amendment under point 6 of the New Slovenia Group. There are 53 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 36. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the amendment under point 6 is not accepted. We will decide on the amendment under point 7 of the Committee. We're voting. There are 53 present, 36 votes against 13. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment of the committee has been adopted. We will decide on the amendment under point 8 of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 51 present, 13 votes against 35. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We will decide on the amendment under point 9 of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. There are 54 present, 22 votes against 26. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 26.]] I would like to remind you that under point 16 of the amendment, the same content of the Member of the Victory of the Helinčič Trimenite is the same, and this point 16 has also been decided - so the amendment under point 16 has not been adopted. We will decide on the amendment under point 10 of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 52 present, 16 votes against 36. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the amendment under point 10 is not accepted. We will decide on the amendment under point 11 of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting! I'm at 55. The vote was 14 to 37. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We will decide on the amendment under point 12 of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting! 53 present, in favour of 13 votes against 37. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We will decide on the amendment of the committee under point 13. We're voting! 49 Members and Members present. 20 votes to 26. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We will decide on the amendment under point 14 of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. 52 Members and Members present. The vote was 12, against 37. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the amendment under point 14 is not accepted. We will decide on the amendment under point 15 of the New Slovenia Group. Wait a minute! Let's wait for the belt to go all the way. We have an explanation for the voice. Mr. Juban. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u169	I ask myself the question of the purpose of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u170	When you explain your voice, you don't ask questions, you just ask questions. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u171	I cannot decide how to vote because the amendment has been tabled in the same way as it did the previous time that it should not be voted on. At the time, he was in combination with some kids' shoes and I don't know what. Of course, the copies were then squandered to all the fire companies with the signature of a colleague of Visiak. I'm afraid this time too. Again, something that prevents adoption and causes more difficult decision-making, and of course, we are in a dilemma about how to decide on such a confused amendment. I don't think the intentions are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u172	That's not an explanation for the voice. Please, if you stick to the rules of procedure. There's no replica here. That's why I took his word and unlocked the microphone. We vote on the amendment under point 15. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 31. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the amendment under point 15 is not accepted. For the amendment under point 16, we have already found that it is the same as under point 9 and that it was not accepted either. In doing so, we have exhausted the vote on the amendments. We are now voting on Article 15 as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present and 36.9 votes against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that Article 15 is fully adopted. I am putting Article 15th into discussion and decision, but since the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment referred to in point 3, this Article 15th, or the amendment, is irrelevant. I shall put Article 16 and the two amendments to Article 16 into the debate and decision. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. First, I shall put an amendment to the vote under point 1. We're voting. There are 52 present, 17 votes against 32. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it that the amendment under point 1 is not accepted. In making my decision, I'm putting an amendment under point 2, the amendment to the committee. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment under point 2 has been adopted. We are now voting on Article 16 as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, with 36.6 votes against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that Article 16 has been adopted. I shall put Article 17 and the two amendments to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We will first decide on the amendment under point 1 of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. 53 present. The vote was 16 to 33. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In making my decision, I am putting an amendment under point 2 of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee. We're voting. Forty-seven present. The vote was 37. Two voted against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment under point 2 has been adopted. And now for the whole article. We're voting. I'm at 48. 41 votes against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 17 has been adopted. I shall put Article 21 and the amendment to this Article into discussion and decision. The amendment was tabled by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Attending 49. It's 38 votes against 2. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the amendment to Article 21 has been adopted. And now for the whole article. We're voting. Attending 49. For 42, against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 27 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 51 present. 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now we're talking about the 27th whole. We're voting. 51 present. 45 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 27 has been adopted. I am putting a new Article 28a of the New Slovenia Group in the debate and decision-making process. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 33. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the amendment and thus Article 28a as a new article is not adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting Article 30 and the amendment to this Article of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting! There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 30. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Now the 30th part is complete. We're voting. There's 49 present. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. I shall put the 41st Article and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Fifty present. The vote was 43, 2 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us also vote on the whole article. We're voting. Could I have your attention, please? I will repeat the vote on Article 41 in full. We'll vote next time. Forty-seven present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. I shall put Article 46 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! 51 present. The vote was 47 to 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There's 46 present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. I shall put Article 47 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members present. The vote was 44.1 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on Article 47 as a whole. We're voting. Forty-seven present, in favour of a vote of 45, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The Article has been adopted. With this we voted on the amendments. Now there are other articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on these articles. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. 53 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The rest of the articles have been adopted with this. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anyone want to discuss the title of the law? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and vote on the title of the law. We're voting. 54 Members and Members present voted in favour of 50, 2 votes. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] The title of the law has been adopted. I am also putting forward the next proposal for a decision in the debate. The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does anyone want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it. I propose this decision to the vote. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 51 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The proposal for a decision has been adopted and thus concludes the 10th item of the agenda. Thank you to the representatives of the government for their cooperation. We're going back to treatment 16. Agenda items, this is the proposal for a law on amendments to the law on the first chamber building and the recasting of authorised investment companies, the speedy procedure, the third defences. Would qualified applicants like to table an amendment in third reading? If so, let them do it. It was a break, there were no amendments, so let's move on. Before that, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss the law in its entirety. No one wants to discuss the whole law. I therefore ask whether, according to the amendments adopted, the law has remained harmonised. Well, it's not the opposite. The law is harmonised. That way we can go to the full decision of the law. Voice explanation, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u173	Procedurally. Otherwise, I didn't think it would be necessary before the vote on the whole law, but I think it would be useful to consult. I therefore propose an 11-minute recess on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u174	I'm taking 15 minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u175	Colleagues and colleagues, please, if you'll take your seats because you'd like to make the final part of the session. Colleagues and colleagues, we're going to check the lockdown, so please sit in your seats, check the cards if they're in the voting device. We're checking the concoction. There's more of us in the hall. We'll re-examine the concoction. Next time, we'll check the concoction. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm taking a ten-minute vacation. At 5:17 p.m., we resume the session. I think it's in the interest of all of us that after ten minutes we're all here to conclude the meeting. Are you in favour of repeating the quorum? [[Yeah.]] Does anyone object? [[Nobody.]] We're picking up a quorum, another time. There are 47 of us present and we can continue the meeting. Please, if we will calm down to conclude this part of the point and the session. The Group of Liberal Democracy wanted a vacation. Please, if you can present your opinion after this break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u176	Given that the harmonised content was not voted on, we discussed what to do, how to do the voting on the law itself. We believe that it is right to uphold the law because the basic purpose is being realized. However, since it is possible to introduce any other solution into this law, there are, of course, other ways and other options, so that those who feel that something needs to be changed in the next procedure should also do so. We believe, however, that the conditions for deciding on the law are now fully met as far as our parliamentary groups are concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-13-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u177	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 39, 10 votes against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 10.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude the 16th item of the agenda. Colleagues and colleagues, we have done quite a lot of work in this 20th extraordinary session. On behalf of all those who have held the meeting, I thank you for your good cooperation and I also wish to do so next week when we meet again. I conclude the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and wish everyone a pleasant end of the week. Thank you and good-bye.
