ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues, please insert the cards into the voting apparatus so that we can begin the session by establishing the quorum. Again, I call on all colleagues and colleagues who are nearby or in the lobby to join us. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Janez Kramberger, Richard Beumann for the beginning of the afternoon and afternoon session, Aloz Peterle, Franc Lenko, Franc Čebulj, Rudolf Petan for the beginning of the session, Roberto Battelli, Andrej Fabjan for the afternoon part of the session, Irma Pavlinič Krebs for the beginning of the session, Ljubo Germič, Zoran Gračner, Matjaž Švagan, Cyril Pucko for the beginning of the session and Ivan Mamić. I'm asking you to establish the presence in the hall. I'm asking you to put your cards in because I see some of them still out there. I'm asking you to insert your cards again, because I find that there are more than 50 of us in the hall. My colleagues and colleagues, as we can see from the screen, there are 45 of us present, and there are more than 50 of us in the hall, so please put your cards in. Well, now we're done. We're going to figure out the conjunctivities. Please press the "quorum" button. It didn't work, you didn't all press the quorum, so we're going to try to figure it out again. Please press the "quorum" button. It failed again, even though there are 54 of us in the hall. We'll wait fifteen minutes, so at 10.29 we'll continue the meeting. Following the rules of procedure of fifteen minutes, 10.29 we shall begin the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u2	I'm guessing there's 59 of us in the hall and we can start a meeting. Please calm down. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I would only inform you that there will be a colleague of Vojko Čeligoj missing from the afternoon session. Now, for the third time, we're going to figure out the conjunctivities. Do you have any cards? We'll determine the presence. Please press "quorum." There are 56 Members and Members present. The assembly is adjourned and we can start work. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are invited to attend today's meeting and I also welcome them. Today's continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the 2nd item of the agenda, namely the amendment of the report on companies, businesses and institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, are prohibited from doing business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. Then we'll move on to the 2nd item of the agenda. At the afternoon part of the meeting we will discuss item 2 of the agenda, this is a proposal for a consultative referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. So I'm going to move on to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT IS THE AMENDMENT OF THE REPORT ON ECONOMIC SOCIETYS, ENTERTAINMENTS OR INSTRUMENTS, FOR WHICH, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FIRST PARAGRAPH, 20. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment to the report was submitted to the assembly by the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[Not at all.]] The parent working body shall propose to the assembly for adoption the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings and institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, shall be subject to a prohibition of operations with the State, public undertakings and establishments. The amendment of the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." I am opening a debate on the proposal for a decision. Anybody want a word? Because no, we're going to make a decision. We vote, please, on the proposed decision. There are 50 Members and Members present. 42 votes for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes the agenda item. Colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the 2.A POINT OF THE DAY RED, which we interrupted at the last meeting. We remained with Article 5 of the amendment review of 15.5.2002. In the debate, I am putting Article 5 and the amendment to Article 5 and Article 5(2) of the amendment. Who wants a word? Mr. Bernick, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u3	Procedurally, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted! When we discussed this marriage last week, I asked you to set one minute of silence - we're talking about pieta and so on - but we haven't answered or today I don't know what you're really thinking of doing with my request. I think we're in a democratic country and I'd like to have your opinion that I know how to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. Bernick. I am pleased to inform you and others that I have made this proposal known to the President of the National Assembly or that he was aware of it. We're in phase two of the law. We talked about this proposal of yours in the leadership of the National Assembly. There is still a third reading ahead of us, and so finally the adoption of this law. We believe that this would then be an opportunity to accept your proposal and similarly to conclude this important, including the political points of our agenda and the responsibility of the national assembly to this issue. However, this is also a matter of agreement with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the agreement is that we will discuss this with the leaders in the parliamentary groups. If you accept this answer for today's part of the debate, I ask you to understand. I give you my word again, Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much for the explanation, but my request remains, and I hope that you will remember that we will come to the point where this national assembly or whoever has decided to do so thinks it would be appropriate to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you. Does anyone wish to discuss Article 5 and the amendments tabled? Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u7	Well, this is the issue of the title of the law, the title, the current proposal is the War Cemetery Act. I believe that the law also wants to address and resolve the issues of all graves, not just war graves, and that expression is inadequate, incompetent, somehow unclear, I would say, reasons for avoiding the extension of this concept. As has been said many times, most of the cemeteries shut up have no connection to war. The graves of Slovenska Bistrica and, say, the Dachav processes or the above-mentioned cemetery in Strigova, the victim of Strigova in 1947/48, have nothing to do with war, really none, and we have proposed in the first reading that the war cemetery as a name should be extended to the graves of war and revolution. Somehow some MEPs received smallpox on the terms of the revolution, so we proposed a more indifferent address, including these graves that have no connection to the war. These are special graves. So this is the basis and content of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u8	A replica of this debate, Mr. Pache? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u9	We can argue that the law does not correspond or that your proposal for amendments to the law does not correspond to the name of the law. But we can take a different one. That the name of the marriage is fine, but only your changes are wrong. And because in the Slovenian National Party, it is based on the fact that the basic essence of the law is on behalf and that the name should be drawn to itself in this case by the drafters of the law, your amendment is contrary to the context of the law and, of course, the amendment in the Slovenian National Party will not be supported, nor would you support it if you proposed a new law with content, as proposed in the form of amendments and amendments to the law. According to our assessment, it is the act of law and the integration of matter into a law that must not be or that is not subject to law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. Pache. Mr. Petty Officer has also made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u11	First of all, I'd like to replicate to Mr. Pecchet. It is true that there are amendments in there that we have not proposed and also apply to victims before World War II and have nothing to do with war. And with this concept of war, Mr Pece, you will not be able to make a fortune from these amendments. So you're in conflict with yourself. Just to avoid this ideology and to set up at least the law, the name of the law, the title of the law, which is neutral and, on the other hand, captures those before World War II, war events, revolutionary events, postwar totalitarian authorities, we have given a neutral notion. So this gesture of ours was good, it was focused, and I don't see any problem in it. Therefore, I strongly recommend that we accept this proposal and that these expressions be replaced throughout the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. Mr. Pache signed up for the replica. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u13	Well, I take it you don't see any problems in the process of your thinking, as I believe your fellow Members who are proposing a minute of silence do, but I must say that this would be a problem for me. And so, with the proposal you're making, there's no way I can cooperate. On the other hand, I would like to say that at this point you are mixing matter, in my personal opinion, with the content of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Pache. I can close the debate. So first we'll decide on the amendment to the amendment. I must warn you that this amendment to the amendment is linked to the articles listed in the text so that I do not read them again. By reference, if the amendment to the amendment is accepted, this shall also apply to the articles listed above. But if not, these amendments remain irrelevant. And let's move on to the decision. We're voting, please. There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 37. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment to the amendment was not accepted. And they're still irrelevant. I am making an amendment under point 2, which has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting, please. There are 53 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 8. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that Article 5 has been completely amended. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment to Article 6. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please. 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 46, 2 against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 6 has been completely amended. I am putting Article 7 and the amendment to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please. There are 53 Members and Members present. There were 47 votes against one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 7 has been completely amended and adopted. I shall give Article 8 and the amendment to Article 8 for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 46, one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 8 has been adopted. I shall put Article 10 and the amendment to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 49, one against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 10 has been adopted. I am putting Article 11 and the amendment to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? I don't see a desire to discuss it. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present. 53 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 11 has been adopted. I am putting Article 12 and the amendment to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting, please. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 51 for the vote, no one's against it. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 12 has been adopted. I am putting new paragraphs 12a, 12b and 12c into discussion and decision-making. Anyone want to discuss these articles and amendments? Nobody. We're going to make decisions about all the articles together, so 12.a, 12.b and 12.c. We're voting, please. 49 Members and Members are present. 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The articles are hereby adopted. I am putting Article 13 and the amendments to this Article into discussion and decision. In the review, we have an amendment to the amendment to Article 13, then point one, amendment to the amendment under point two, and amendment to the government under point three. Someone wants to discuss these, I apologize, and the amendment under point four. [[...]] Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to briefly comment on our amendment or explain why we tabled it, i.e. justification. Labels on specific graves, what they may contain. The existing graves, which are regulated, are also touched by the law, also have certain titles as to the compositions of the units. In order to avoid any change in this, because we do not agree in the New Slovenia Group that existing graves should be modified in any way, it is necessary to respect the equality to be given to these graves, namely military graves, to introduce these names without any concern that this is misused. I think the Slovenian people are so wise and rebellious and those who have also been repeatedly neglected to show this attitude, dignity. Then about the inscriptions - let the inscriptions reflect what it is. The inscriptions don't touch the victims, they don't put them in a worse position. They touch on ideologies or on those forces that have caused this and is defined by the general concept, so that these concepts that we are introducing are very local and similar to those found elsewhere in Europe. The third paragraph of our amendment refers to symbols that glorify and celebrate belonging to what is not supposed to be on the inscriptions. The government amendment states only, i.e. belonging to Nazi and fascist ideologies. I think that the Slovenians are so mature, so wise and I don't know, so capable that we can also write into the law, that no communist affiliation is allowed to celebrate it. To avoid any preference for anyone, ideology or glorification, we believe that such a proposal is balanced and appropriate for acceptance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. Anybody else want to discuss this? I give my word to the Secretary of State. I'm sorry, Mr Tsukjat spoke earlier. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u17	Well, this article deals with three worse solutions or disputed issues, namely, the title "formation", then the title to which it belongs or should even be written "falls for the country" and "falls into war" and the inscription of the parallel "Naziism, Fascism, communism". I believe that my comments will not have any particular impact and effect, but I must say the following because of my sense of duty. First of all, about the name "formation." The name "military formations" should be allowed at all military graves. I think it's a minimum of civilisational piette, because it's in all the military graves around the world, for example, a thousand crosses on every cross is a last name and a name, because the cemetery is not, as I said, a dump site of some ancient bones, but it is the dead of our past history and it must be approached as well. So the name "formation" is everywhere where there are military graves. Quite respectfully, a man stops at a partisan monument, where the name of the squad that suffered so much damage here and so. I'm going through Krnske Pogorje very respectfully, where it says which Italian unit fought there and ended their lives, which regiment of the Austro-Hungarian army and so on. I think that's true of those soldiers who didn't belong to the NOB. The other thing is, if it's supposed to say "falls for the homeland" in the partisan graves, then it should also be written on the tombs of the patriots. If we recognize the partisans' respect for the worthy desire for freedom, even though their patriotism has been played and used the Communist leadership of the Liberation Front to carry out the revolution, then we must also acknowledge patriotism for the patriots, even though they have found themselves in the fight against revolutionary violence in cooperation with the Germans. As the patriots sadly ended up in the karst abyss, so did the partisan desire for freedom sadly end up in the postwar totalitarian regime. Because we're still listening to the disqualification of patriots with collaborationism and their arrest to Hitler, let me read it this time. It reads: "I swear by the almighty God that I will be faithful, brave and my superiors, that in a joint battle with the German armed forces, under the command of the great Germany, the SS troops and the police, against the bandits and communism, as well as his allies, I will faithfully fulfill my duty to the Slovenian homeland as part of a free Europe. For this fight I am willing to sacrifice my life." So it wasn't written to Hitler.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u18	Mr. Tuckati, I would ask you to strictly limit yourself to this amendment if you want to explain anything else; it is written.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u19	It's an amendment that talks about graves if it's supposed to only be written by the members of the NOB "fall for their homeland". That's what this is about. Your Honor, and I'm the one who's justifying it. Please, you'll have a replica. I think the chairman will give you this opportunity. I'm going to read the sentence one more time and I'm going to ask you to be so mature and listen to the prescribing. Listen: "I swear to God Almighty that I will be faithful, brave and my superiors [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u20	I don't know why you keep saying that because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u21	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u22	We've heard that before. I don't know why you keep saying this in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u23	His superiors are in subjection." It doesn't say he'll be in charge or subject to Hitler and the SS. There's no such thing as an oath. The V.A.'s not written to Hitler. It's to his superiors. While he promises to cooperate with the German armed forces, the final goal is, I quote, "Slovenia's homeland as part of a free Europe". It's an oath. And in those circumstances of revolutionary violence, we can fully understand and not condemn the anti-communism forecast. The other thing that is inconsistent in this article is that it should say "fall into war" to all after the war-killed soldiers. It was cited at the previous meeting that 62 German prisoners were killed after the war when they carried out the task of beating the decommissioning bodies. I don't think they could write "fall into war," the war was gone, respected. And then there's the next one. If the inscriptions on the graves are distasteful to magnify Nazism and fascism, and if this is to be prevented, then I think it is also untasteful to magnify communism, because the consequences of communist violence and terror are completely comparable to the crimes of Nazism and fascism; unfortunately, this is how world statistics speak when they state the number of victims. I believe that just as Hitler took Nazism, he magnified the Aryan race, Jews spat with frauds, thieves, hypocrites, rats, the floor, so do we, such a feeling I have, 50 years of hearing about pure, brave, self-sacrificing communist heroes and liberators who build us a bright future, and about domestic traitors, collaborators and clerophasists, rats, the floor. Your Honor, communism is something else, you'll say, he's done so much good, you'll say. Fascism and Nazism have done much good, but only to those on the right side, like communism. That's what I'm saying. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u24	Please don't fall into each other's words.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u25	That's why I'm saying if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u26	Mr Cuckoo, I also ask you to limit yourself strictly to the amendment you are proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u27	If we renounce the glorification of Nazism and fascism, I believe that, not only in accordance with various resolutions such as 1096 but also in accordance with the democratic world, we must renounce the magnification of communism. Whoever does not understand that it is communism, I will not tell all the Slovenes, but many of the Slovenians have caused a lot of grief, which can be compared to Nazism and fascism, who understands it, will also understand the proposal to delete this paragraph or to include communism between Nazism and fascism. Dear colleagues, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. Now we have a line of replicas, first of all, Mr. Azhish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Just for a comment. I think that such debates in Parliament call for people with a good heart, and it is good that we have endured this because I think that the fabrication of certain facts does not really belong to this Parliament, which we represent as the highest authority of the State in the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me a few quotes from the book by Dr. Ivica Žnidaršič, from the introduction to the book written by Dr. Tone Ferenc: "The German Nazi plan for the destruction of the Slovenian people as an ethnic unit had three essential components: the first, mass extermination of the Slovenians, the second, mass colonization of the Germans on Slovenian soil and the third, the rapid and complete oblivion of those people who would stay at home for a while. From 1941 there are sources written that the first plan envisaged the death of 220,000 to 260,000 Slovenians from the Germans of the occupied part of Slovenia, not Italians, that is another part. The estimate is that about 63,000 Slovenians were actually expelled, most in Germany, 45,000, to Croatia 10,000, to Serbia 7,200 and so on." But I'm just listing a few facts that talk about where these people would live in a free Europe. These people today would, of course, be Germans, maybe Croats, maybe Serbs, but they'd live in the environment they live in, and that's exactly what we'd do. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] It happened. [[...]] We cannot, therefore, listen to the glorification of those who have sworn to German Nazis in the fight against communism, but have only cast anti-communism and forgotten the Slovenians and the fate of the Slovenians, who were drawn up with Hitler's guidelines and German Nazi policies, and I would ask the President, too, to immediately put an end to all such debates and arguments, which should have argued individual amendments to the law, which would have arranged in a respectful manner all that had unfortunately not been regulated in the last more than fifty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you for your performance. I give my word for the replica to Mr. Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to replicate to the esteemed Dr. Tsukati, especially because he introduced us twice to the contents of a domestic oath and tried to convince us that it was not an oath to the invader. I appreciate his effort, but the effort is counterproductive. You know, our interwar history as well as postwar events are exactly what they were and everything happened under some historical circumstances. That's why, for example. There was no patriotism in Primorska because they knew what fascism was and learned about fascism and experienced it on their skin long before, from World War I to World War II. For this reason we also have numerous Slovenian emigration around the world, including in Argentina, our delegation was recently there because of fascism. What happened in other parts of Slovenia is due to the fact that Fascism and Nazism had no prior experience. But if they didn't swear to the invader, I'd like to ask you who dressed them, who uniformed them, who armed them, who fed them, and who paid them. Now I do not want to list the data from the book Slovensko domoštvo, what was the daily reward for staying in the base, what was the reward for the hamster. But they didn't have their own extra-budget resource to finance, all of which was funded by the Third Reich. Therefore, I find such teaching inappropriate here. I myself am prepared to listen to the story and also to believe that some were naive, that they were misled, that they wanted to avoid serving the army, in the German army, and rather chose an alternative at home. But as far as you're concerned, as you've done now, I don't think it's appropriate, I don't think it's decent for the members of these formations, but for the living and the dead, because you're simply underestimating them. It wasn't like you were just telling stories. Once again, they could have been misled, but according to international terminology, by international classification it was a collaboration, and that is the essence of the problem. In the end, winners always decide what is right and what is wrong. Winners write the truth. If the story had turned differently, collaborations would probably have been condemned by some others, co-operation with communism, the Soviet Union and so forth would have been charged. But we always have winners and losers. And changing history in such a way that it is reinterpreted by us, politicians, is the most horrifying and most damaging work. I had nothing to do with that generation, but that there would be no misunderstandings, and my father was also mobilized into 'arbeitdienst', and then he was a German soldier, and he escaped from there, and then he was a Partisan, so he wouldn't always tell on the one hand what kind of injustices were going on or what stories were. To survive the second war in our territory was complicated, it was difficult, and some decided on options that in the historical perspective have come to the facts that show that they were the best, that I am pleased to say that they were wrong and proved to be a historically wrong collaboration. It's not just our case, it's a story that goes from Norway to Greece, if you want, they can figure out everywhere what collaboration is and what not. Unfortunately, that's how it worked out for us. Therefore, I find the reinterpretation of this oath, twice in a row, really unnecessary, and especially for the reputation of the members of this formation, which we are now talking about, counterproductive. Once again, I am prepared to believe that someone was wrong, that he was naive, that he was deceived, that he was deceived, that he made a mistake, but I am not prepared to listen to such interpretations as you have now done twice. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I hope I wasn't too grave.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Kacin. Mrs. Danica Simšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In my debate, first I would like to say that I am not just sad [[...]] [[The voices from the hall.]] I have a debate, if anyone has a replica, I have a debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u34	I'm sorry, I thought you had a replica. Then I'll give priority to three replicas, if I understand them correctly as replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u35	But I'll have a replica, please, if I have a word with you. Let the clock start running, and I've got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u36	So go to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u37	So I'll save the debate for later. And now I would like to replicate only the debate of Dr. Tuckati. I will say that the debate was expected and that I am not particularly disappointed, but I am sad, because what some of us were afraid of at the beginning of the debate on this law has turned out to be what some of us were afraid of. That it is not a matter of marriage, at least for some not to properly and respectfully arrange the graves and bury all our dead, on any side, but to abuse this law, to pervert and change history. And that's unworthy and unacceptable. I would now like to read from a historical source, given that there was a quoted oath, an oath before the SS General, to state that history states that a well-known finding that the Nazi SS has never agreed to a single Slovenian domestic army, with which Slovenians, as General Leon Rupnik has declared, would become an equal nation in the family of Hitler's European peoples. Domestic units had nothing to do with the regular German army, Vermacht and other administrative and political institutions of the Third Reich. They were fully subordinated to the authorities and under the authority of the SS. And the sequel to the replica. How much did anyone know what patriotism meant? How well did some members of the then government realize this? I'm going to quote some thoughts from the letter from Izidor Cankar to the Bishop of Ljubljana, Dr. Rozman. Among other things, he states: "The Slovenian household is a national and ecclesiastical damage that will barely be remedied. How a Slovenian officer must voluntarily swear allegiance, a man willing to swear allegiance to Hitler, who has pledged everything to exterminate us and destroy Christian culture. When domesticists in Italy say that they are allies in the heart, they mock and pity them. But what should they think of people who swear on one side and boast on the other that they have actually sworn by mistake? The only purpose of this army for the Slovenians is to open up the possibility of the Slovenian land being liberated and united and thus creating permanent preconditions for a healthy national life after a thousand years of death. The locals are obstructing this goal," says Cankar, "when they entered Hitler's service and against the allies. In Primorska, the partisans will stand with the allies, and where will the patriots be? Some will run away when the Germans leave, others will kill if they fight. What for? Who will be responsible for this accident? Who will be responsible for all the damage that the patriots will do with their treachery? Who will correct what they will bring with them into ruin?" And then Cankar writes in August 1944: "I hope there is still time, Mr. Archbishop, that something is done to make this most crucial political mistake in Slovenia correct and I ask you to do what you can. Much, much depends on whether you will clearly see things, clearer than those miserable, ignorant or guilty people who are deceived." And then he goes, "I'll go back to London tomorrow, and read that I stepped out of the government, know that I didn't do it because I don't agree with her policy, her direction is right, but for my place in it there's no more reason since those men in Rome said they can't break their relationship with Hitler. It is likely that someone else will come to my place, but the government's goal will remain the same: it is necessary to go to the end, which is nearer, and its policy is based on an agreement with Britain, America and Russia and the clearly expressed aspirations of the people in Yugoslavia, on everything against which the patriots are fighting. What hopelessness, what a shameful battle." This is a letter from Izidor Cankar dated 19 August 1944. Just as much as anyone knew about domesticism, what this meant both in the context of the then Slovenian government and of course also the Hitlerian coalition and the Anti-Hitler coalition. Thank you very much, so much in the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you. I give my word to Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Although I consider myself a moderate representative of the Slovenian National Party, therefore, respected colleagues, who solve the problems of the Slovenians and the Slovenian people today and here, I thought this law was reconciliation; unfortunately, it sounded like a new dispute between the Slovenians. And secondly, I think we're talking today about the draft War Cemetery Act. What we heard was a talk about a bill to change historical facts or whatever. Therefore, I ask you, honourable Vice-Presidents and colleagues, as has been said many times, to stick to the facts and to this law and not to separate the Slovenian people once more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Roman Jakič has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. The replica, of course, goes to a colleague of Dr. Tuckati. Mr. Tuckati, I'm a generation of 1967, in books I've already met Balantich, not as a poet as a soldier. My wife, from his work, graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy, from comparative literature. You can tell me the impatience of your performance, but patience also has its limits. I can agree with you and with those who say that communism has caused a lot of grief, especially the reduction of human rights and freedoms. I don't end up condemning post-war extrajudicial killings myself. But harshly, Dr. Tsukati, I strongly protest against your statements that fascism and Nazism has brought something good to this Europe and to this country where we live; that it has gone in the direction of a free Europe. Dr. Tuckati, Nazism and Fascism have brought only woes and evil into this country and into this Europe, only woes and evil. Implementation, your implementation, Dr. Tuckati, is not proud of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, is not proud! The Federal Republic of Germany would be prosecuted for such enforcement. Not to say that, of course, there is no European and global international, except the Haider Alliance, which is now creating it, and its list of candidates for the European Parliament, which would say that. They are individuals who say concentration camps are fictitious. Your party, the international party you're knocking on after you've been thrown out of socialist internationalism, wouldn't be pleased with your implementation. She wouldn't be happy. Otherwise, I'm not the type to wear this on my nose, but the translation of your performance would not, of course, be unnoticed in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Dr. Cuckoo, one more thing. Good, but I am glad that, of course, history is written, not only in the Republic of Slovenia, but in the world and, of course, in this history, we know who was on the right side and who was not and who was really taking the path of a free Europe. Hitler, the SS and the rest of the gang, of course not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you. I have recorded replicas just like they did, and I will give my word in this order. Mr. Grošelj, you have the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u43	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. I intend to replicate Dr. Sugar. With this, of course, I would like to start by saying that, of course, I agree with those observations also made by some who, of course, have come to the conclusion, but together we find that there are always great horrors in every war. Of course, I also agree with the part where together we can see that grief is also immeasurable, especially of all those who lose their people. And I can say no matter where or how. No matter, I can say, even on which side, if we must always share fate in different fields. Every loss in the family is tragic. That is why we must understand and express our sympathy to those who have lost their relatives after the war and are lying in an unknown place, as well as some partisan fighters who also do not have their last reputation, have no burial place and we may have found at least enough to put their identity on the proper monument. That's why they all deserve a memorial mark. However, it is not necessary to prevent that, especially after 50 years, it is necessary to determine whether this rebellion was against violence and the liberating aspirations of people, whether values and some priceless values were values, but I think it is very cruel and sad that these matters must always be set. Will we, of course, address those of course who then came to know and who did not fear fascist and Nazi violence? However, lives that were violently torn apart because of their hope and confidence in the righteousness of their struggle. So it is also very difficult to imagine what a person is reliving, who is standing in front of the rifle’s pipes, or who feels the end of his being, to whom his final thoughts are directed. This, I hope that at least we can work out this together, we cannot know because it is a personal tragedy for each individual. However, we may know that they may have made a conscious decision against resistance because of their patriotism and that their lives and their deaths are involved in the grandeur of national liberation. And that's what makes a man's knowledge rich. And if necessary, over and over again. And of course, that's why you're so much more disturbed by this politicization of this, for the daily political and ideological needs, but of course it can rightly be ashamed of it. I'm also among those relatives who lost our dearest. From my father, my uncle, my father, and so on. And Mr Cukjat, patriots to acknowledge patriotism, is the lowest value a person can say after so many years. I do not want to use some of the lower elements, elements that had their ideology, in fascism and even in Nazism. By the law we want to adopt, of course, we also want to demonstrate in a state way the same pieta that everyone has to give. And of course I'm ready to do that. Therefore, please, Dr. Cuckoo, and also some, be so aware that you are truly aware of these events and those memories as you have experienced them and when you need to know them from history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Groschel. The word for the replica, if I have correctly recorded it, I give it to Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. If France Tsukati thinks so, it's legitimate. After all, he lives with it, and I think it's punishment enough for a person to live with such ideas. But it's not good and it's not good, it's not pleasant, and it shouldn't happen that things are being abused. It's three abuses. It is an abuse of Parliament, and it is indeed an abuse of Parliament, where, in the light of a good idea, some things are arranged, spoken, and even said to be a technical law, it is said that a story is concluded, friendly and, as far as it may be concluded, so such talk is an abuse of it. It is an abuse, as I said, of Parliament, of another abuse, namely the abuse of the will of most people in this country, which has already said several times that they want the story to end. And let us not entertain such ideas, that we do not harbor hatred, and that at once in the name of these people, and that is why we are here, on behalf of these people, not on behalf of our ideas, that is also a fraction of the abuse. And it's a third abuse, it's an abuse of the dead, it's the worst of the three. It's an abuse of the dead, because these dead can't say they have enough of it, and none of us have the authority on behalf of the dead to pack up or write on monuments or markings that and that. And that's why it's an abuse. Do you know why this is an abuse? Because the dead can't say, "France Knock, or, Leo Kremjar, stop." They can't say, and that's why we can use them. That's why it's an abuse, and that's why it's not appropriate, and that's why I'm condemning it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Kremjar. I give my word to Sam Bevko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the replica of Dr. Cukjati, I would like to tell you what collaboration means, as we can read in the Slovenian encyclopedia today. Cooperation means, in the first place, voluntary active cooperation with the occupying party. The term came from 1940 when the German army occupied part of France. In particular, it identifies those aspects of cooperation with the occupying authority which are not necessary for the survival of the population in war situations and which are harmful to the occupied society in the long term, but also in the short term from the point of view of national honour. Of course, the locals also received a regular monthly payment for their work. As you quoted and your predecessors have a number of documents, I have also searched the archives and received the monthly report of the people of the first company of the 5th fighting group of the Slovenian Homeland who received the payment for the month of December 1943, the date of this document is 3 January 1944 in Brezovica. Here's a precise list of how much the captain got for his work, how much a lieutenant, how much a lieutenant, how much a senior sergeant, a sergeant, a Corporal, and finally how many 88 patriots are in this company. To illustrate, from one of the historical books, the DoD colonel received 8,000 lire a month's salary, 625 lira a military document for ten days, 180 lire a child's allowance, 202 lire diaries and 67 lire a night. That's why I think this whole discussion is a little bit focused on this other direction, not where we're trying to pass the War Cemetery Act and actually bury all the dead with dignity. Therefore, I cannot help but feel that some in this House actually want to write a new law on history, not a law on war graves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Now would you like to ask Mr. Petty Officer if he wants to discuss or replicate? Replicate. Then I give you my word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I have to say that this story has spread in a very strange direction. The purpose of this is - why do I replicate - that all three ideologies, whoever's already under them, are not used in graves. That's the point. All three ideologies that are are inappropriate. We're not discussing defining NOBs, but I don't know, janitors or anything else. I also mentioned a number of sources in my performance, but I did mention the facts, the sources, all that you read were comments. Those who have taken research seriously then know what the comments are and what the sources are, except perhaps what Mr Bevk has just stated. About the collaboration, whether we're going to go over the collaboration here, one thing or the other. I also told in my presentation how Kidrič, after the war and some others, sang, some older than us - Slovenia, Soviet you, as one of the Soviet republics, as one of the parts of this communist world. I could also submit sources, documents of the People's Revolution, who were behind the hostages in Ljubljana in 1941, and also in part 1942, which side, what is the role of Mrs Kraigher and Mrs Lidija Šentjurc. Not from the black beech, from the documents of the human revolution. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we start to deepen the collaboration up, the collaboration down, we're not going anywhere. It is undeniable that all three ideologies have been disputed and therefore it makes sense to stand in this amendment, that no designation is allowed, any one that would magnify one of these three ideologies. This is not a definition of war, what was going on, whether the NOB was okay or not. Let's be clear. Pets, you say Mr. Bevk, got paid. The Communists took the pay. They came to my office, and they brought me documents on the confiscation of property, and they told me if I could claim it as a victim of post-war violence, I said no. Otherwise, in 1945, even in the time of Titus, a provision was issued to ensure that all these compensations were truly guaranteed. But then there was too little will. Collaboration, Ribbentrop and Molotov and the Soviet Union and then cooperation with the establishment of communism on our soil. This situation was extremely complicated in Slovenia. Each of us has a series of arguments. For one and the other to attribute it, with the facts of what was going on. However, the objective of this amendment, as I have already said, is that three ideologies do not appear, not to be magnified, and in the first to allow the inscription "formation", as with the partisan monuments, as with the German monuments, so the monuments of fallen soldiers, the Germans, we have the opportunity to see it throughout Slovenia, throughout the world, and to also fall to those, as you say, patriots and I do not know who else. Why don't we just let it happen? [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Otherwise, we're thinking if the monuments weren't already in place. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u50	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u51	there is no need for formations on the monuments as well. [[...]] I am not in favour of this - because I will conclude, only this thought until the end, if you allow me - so that it does not appear either. However, in order to avoid equality and not to be deleted, it should be ensured as set out in the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you. My name is Mr. Davorin Terchón, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think in the flood of these replicas you've mixed up the order. I would suggest because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u54	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u55	Still, I would suggest a second time if there was a situation where you could read in advance, so that at least we could know who would be next. Of course, my replica goes to Mr. Sugar. Firstly, I am not sure that anyone would be criminally responsible for such implementation anywhere in a democratic Europe. I am pleased, however, that Mr Tsukati has read this file, which in fact proves co-operation with Hitler and Nazi Germany. Mr Tsukayat then came to the interpretation of the statement. The interpretation, however, is that the patriots have pledged a free Slovenia, a free Europe. I would like to point out that, as far as I was watching, Hitler was also talking about a free Europe, even Nazi Germany was talking about a free Europe, and Mussolini was talking about a free Europe, and many dictators and many of the 'extreme's' were talking about freedom. Nice words have been misused many times. Of course, they had their image of this free Europe, and they also spoke of a free Europe and a free Slovenia. But this arrest was made in occupied Slovenia, under cover and in the presence of the occupying army, which paid for these formations, fed, clothed, armed and so on. Therefore, I would suggest that these interpretations, abuses and lies do not continue, because we will quickly find that we have fully matured the matter, which is the goal, in my opinion, of your amendments - that the matter is fully reintroduced. The purpose of this marriage is primarily a worthy burial and the right to the grave of anyone who has fallen or died in any way in the war and war and postwar events. I believe in tragic fates, injustices that have taken place on all sides. On all sides, I emphasize. I believe that one of them happened to be on some side, that one of them was forced, that one of them was misled, that one of them was convinced. But these graves, these graves, these markings will also have some time, they will exist for a time, they will have some symbolic meaning for our generations and also for future generations. Of course, I wonder what it will tell these generations. What will be the message if a similar situation arises when a decision is to be taken again? Will we defend our homeland, defend our country, defend our people, or will we flee anywhere? Whoever pays us better, who dresses us better. After all, we'll all fall for our country. That's not a message. It must be a national message. The message must, however, be given by this country, and this nation must be given, so we are also writing it. So that we can know how to behave in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. We still have a replica. First, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Just a little something. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u58	I'm sorry. Mr Partlich, is it a debate or a replica? I have an order. Allow me, the subject is extremely difficult and sometimes I do not distinguish the sign whether it is a replica or a debate. I understood, please, if I may explain, that I understood that Mr Tsukati and Kelemina, as well as Mr Sok, had responded to the replica. Mr Bernik and Tone Partlič were next. Then I will give my word to Tonet Anderlich. I'm sorry. No, not Visac. I invite you, look, it's not a simple matter, and I may not have noticed when he raised his hand, and he's giving me this help. I'll give the floor to Tonet Partlich, then Tonet Anderlich. Please, Tone Partich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u59	I can also cancel the replica, even though I wanted to replicate Mr Tsukati, and if he is going to then turn to the word, perhaps it is appropriate. But I did report relatively soon. For me, today's debate and I also take these replicas as a good sign. Since I have been in Parliament since 1990, and since then to the congregation, I remember, whenever there were similar topics, we were actually unable to continue because we had split up in the same way in two camps to correct injustices, etc. And there we also said that one party wanted to correct the injustices of history. So it seems to me that this debate may serve something today, but things will be said again between us. I myself thought it was a marriage if I took some literature, things she put in her place of Antigon 2,400 years ago that every dead person deserved a decent burial and a worthy inscription. Mr Cuckoo, you cannot avoid your interpretation of trying to convince us that others should understand the oath as you do, in fact, you have led to these replicas. And this was the interpretation of some historical document that you wanted to-you didn't want to become ideological, and it aroused that attention that she had just awakened. For me, of course, patriotism is one of the tragedies of the Slovenian people and I am not putting myself in a position to condemn things, but I am trying to understand them. Čosić had written, in the 1960s, a division novel, about Serbian divisions against the troops and partisans, where he also tried to explain that it was a tragedy of one nation, because they were all sons of the same nation. Danica Simčič quoted one letter that I wanted to quote myself, which means that some relatively early realized what was waiting for the patriots. I don't know if you remember, but there he says who will be responsible for the postwar fate of the patriots. The same letter, so to speak identically, was written by Aloise Kuhar, if you remember, by the same letter. Before the end of the war, the patriots themselves said that the leadership had betrayed them so that they did not know where to go. So maybe it's a more tragic situation than it is. Even postwar killings that are undoubtedly the result of, say, Bolshevism, if you think. But I tell you, such things are known in history long ago. I was very moved to see that the Nobel laureate Romain Roland, who wrote to his foreign minister, French in 1918, lived alone in Switzerland when World War I was over, wrote the first day of the truce to his minister, although he was somehow expelled from France because he stood up for peace and was a dangerous pacifist: "Be careful that there will be no shortage of winners, because after every war there is a phenomenon when the war is over, that they will kill someone who gets it quickly." What I'm saying is that the melting point is the fate of humanity, and not far from us, things have been happening that show how little we need to actually be in some historical patterns, which are also characteristic of some ideology, but they didn't just grow up there. I myself have tried to be very tolerant since childhood, when I read "The Slovenian already kills the Slovenian brother", I was five years old and my father explained what it was, and this thing is hurting me. Like I said, I'm trying to understand it, and I have no moral right to put myself in a position of judgment, because I don't know what it would be like to live with me. Nevertheless, it seems to me that in some way it is necessary to say that with these monuments or inscriptions we are also setting up a monument for ourselves. The monuments of the NOB you are looking at are the monuments of a period of this nation that he lived. And we will, in a way, see where we have actually been with this thing in our time. I tried to be very tolerant. But I must say that I have been moved by my own way, and I hear some of these sounds now that I have received a letter from the Slovenian Testament a few months ago which warns before this law that, czech, sand in the eyes of every Member has been sent to each Member - that in fact they demand that the Slovenians accept the crime that we have committed over half of the nation, that the remaining part or most of the Slovenians should be cleansed, and that is how we can move on. With all generation - well, I was born in 1940, my granddaughter was born in 1990 - you demand that the Slovenian nation be cleansed so that we can talk. Not what has happened, to tolerate this way between us, but I suggest, as Mr Barovic has said, that we continue with a law that has another purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Tone Partich. Tone Anderlič has a replica of the previous implementation of Mr. Tsukjati
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u61	In fact, I was wondering if this debate was even worth replicating or should have intervened procedurally. It is clear that Mr Drobnic and Mr Tsukati have achieved their purpose by moving the topic away from the law, both at the previous session and today. They have drawn all of us to another field, to a debate on the so-called historical truth, the correction of injustices, the correct designation, by their own names, but not to deal with the law that we have on the agenda. I firmly believe that we can't change history, we can't, we can't change it, we can't change it. I firmly believe that we are writing it ourselves here for the time being, and it will probably be written that way later. I firmly believe that it is not possible to convince you that it was something different and that there is something else like you think it is, as well as of course those who quote other things here. We could all quote something. But please, Mr. Chairman, this is not the subject of this law. We all know that during the war and after the war, the graves were silent. It's our duty to handle this. Unfortunately, it was our duty to arrange it. Because we couldn't fix it between 1990 and 1992 and because we couldn't do it until 2000, by summer, and because we couldn't do it by the end of 2000, and because obviously we can't do it now, [[...]] [[Turned off the microphone, no sound.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u62	I didn't turn it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u63	[[Yeah, it happens.]] I know why this was not done in 1990, 1992, in my opinion. I know why in 2000 the government's conclusions of spring 2000 were not implemented, as regards the markings of the monuments, as regards the tasks of individual ministries and so on. Because it is always necessary to talk about these things, because it is necessary to put these things somewhere in the future and to use them constantly for daytime disputes and the setting up of new truths and new history. No, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that there will be no need to replicate and explain. I don't think and I don't want to be able to identify in any way with the discussions of Mr Tsukjati and Mr Drobnič, who have indeed achieved the purpose that they have tried to prevent, the President of Parliament, the President of the State, the Government with the statement that she adopted when she sent the law to Parliament in another reading. Go see what it says in there. All these things were said, regretting all that was wrong, what was contrary to human rights, which was contrary to the legal order, which was contrary to civilization if you want and so on. And now it is necessary to do what the government, what the state must do, even later, so that it will have the legal basis for taking care of the monuments, for it to mark the graves, for it to discover what is still silent, for it to be a legal basis and a material basis. That's all this is about, gentlemen. However, if you intend to continue to stay away from the law, then please, Madam President, I suggest, on behalf of the group, that the college meet and that, if you cannot hold a discussion on the subject of the law, we agree on how we will proceed with this discussion. We can't write truths here, we can't write truths, we can't write truths. The truth will only be that in the end it will be counted, how many Members were for one or another Article of the Law and who was for the law, and that will be all truth, and what kind of law we will adopt. But I'm sure it's up to you to just adopt the law. But if that is not the case, then it is really better for the government to withdraw it and find out that this is just a misunderstanding, not a communication.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u64	However, I expect, and we all together, that we will be able to adopt this law. That is why I urge you all once again to be rational in debates, tolerance, respect for one another and not accusations and slanders. Six more replicas have been reported. I will give my words in order, however, to end this debate and take a decision. It's Mr. Cuckold's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. Well, I was a little surprised by the assessment that in the background the purpose of my opinions was poor and that I should even be held accountable for my words. I didn't expect that grade. I was very surprised that I was sentenced to honor Fascism and Nazism. I'd like to ask my colleagues to take a look at the magnetogram after they have time. Nazism and fascism left behind huge graves, including Communist violence left many graves behind. That's all I wanted to say, Your Honor. Of course, someone who can understand, understand, writes somewhere. It has also been evident that we are achieving separation, and we encourage hatred, in fact, that the purpose of the law is simply to arrange the cemeteries. Dearly beloved, it is in this article that the proposal to whom should it be written and only to whom should it be written "fall for the country", and in this article is a negative attitude, to condemn fascism, Nazism, communism is not a word. However, at least as I know it, it would be necessary, with the same distance, to critically assess post-war communist violence. If we don't assess this, then we'll delete that paragraph. Just five to the death demands, at least that's how I think the pieta is to ask once whether all those convictions are in place or not. That's all I was after. A little relativize that black and white technique of judgements and convictions. That's all you have to do, Your Honor, if you don't believe, is your business. I feel very uncomfortable. When I'm in the household environment, I defend the partisans. My father was a partisan, fell into war. When I'm in your environment, I defend the patriots and everyone spits at me. In fact, I am personally convinced that I know so many personal tragedies and stories that in Slovenia there was a lot of patriotism, love of home on both sides, respect. And no, I'll be done, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Kelemina's replicas are in order, then Mr Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your word, Your Honor. Just for a little while. I'm replicating Mr. Jakich. I must warn him that he is actually exaggerating in his statements and that all that he has just accomplished and provoked is not what he meant. This is a fact, and then you're turning a lot of other debaters into this thing, and you're getting even more potential and you're making it harder. That's not the case. I must defend my fellow Member. He didn't mean what you just attacked him with the words you gave him back. I'm not gonna say it has a different view, but in some democratic society, each individual, I think he has the right to his own view and you have to let it happen. But if you think we're back in a society where we all have to think the same way, then say that we stick to some other framework, that we have some other values. But it's a fact. Look, I was accidentally raised in a communist, socialist spirit. I'm not ashamed of it. Some things are left, logically, because they are. I also took a lot of good things out of it, but of course it hurt me terribly, but when I learned other parts of the truth and why some things might have been somehow prevented, silenced and I didn't know much either. In all of this, I always wonder what we had at the beginning of this right now, somehow, in the debate where those reasons, the underlying reasons for the division of the nation, have occurred. We have to ask ourselves here. When someone launches a political strategy, in the long run, they provoke their own people to fight each other. That's worth a conviction. Many times it happens, I don't know, probably on one side or the other, I wasn't there and I don't know. In fact, someone had an interest that people, so to speak, would provoke one another and then start conflicts. If you want to get rid of him, you don't know how you would, because you don't have any proof of him, you throw a gun into the well at night, and then the next day you come in with a group, and then you pull a gun out of the well, and you discover that he's got a gun hidden, that he's attacked one side or the other, and you kill him in the yard, or you take him out, and he never comes back. I mean, there are different stories here. We need to look at with more perspectives, global, a little more detail, and then those details that are terrible, which we are currently discussing, which are actually horrifying and we can be ashamed of all that has happened and we absolutely must condemn all these horrors. But like I said, you have to separate what happened between strangers and between us, for sure. You can't accept any foreigner as a master and so forth, even though sometimes domestic hosts are worse than foreigners. That is often known, but the fact is that this fratricidal struggle between our Slovenians should no longer have happened. That's what Mr Partljič gave a good warning and so on. I don't think anyone should exaggerate on these matters. And I would ask you not to really fabricate those words that someone might have quite critically evaluated, even more potentiated, and do not try to seduce the matter to the other side. You too should adhere to some principle that this law must be adopted in some form that will be acceptable to the entire Slovenian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Kelemina. Now I give my word to Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am one of those Members who find it difficult to accept that in this House we read to each other, czech, you have abused Parliament and so on. This cannot only apply unilaterally. This can then, of course, apply to all of us, because every Member in Parliament is simply saying exactly what he thinks and what lies with him. We're not prepared to face all the facts, but only half-life, with some. I also cannot agree that some MPs in replicas can tell others whether they are telling the truth or lying when even the President of our country, Mr Kučan, has said on some occasion that there are more truths. Of course, I do not agree with this that there are more truths. But obviously there are more interpretations. And that is how we are discussing here, and it is right for us to say these things in Parliament. And I don't understand this canoniade replica of Dr. Tuckati. In particular, I do not understand and protest that, for example, some Members, Mr Jakič takes from the context only a part of what is said and then uses that as a replica and a huge attack on the Member. Well, that's unacceptable, Mr. Jakich. If you are patient, as you repeatedly declare, then please listen to the matter to the end and do not take matters from the context. That's exactly what you did. Well, Dr. Cuckoo, not that I'm his advocate or anything, but I've listened to all the discussions, and here the opposition is patiently listening to you, while for some of the positions I can't say that. He said what sorrows Fascism and Nazism had caused, and of course, he also mentioned what Communism had brought. But you used its implementation in the sense that you took only a fraction of the sentence and then read it to him and glue it to him, to magnify Nazism and fascism. This, honourable Members, is unworthy of Parliament and it would be much better to listen to each other better in these matters and, above all, to show each other more tolerance and tolerance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you. I'm getting to know each other even more. Now it would be Mr Stanislav Brenčič's turn, if this is a replica, but if this is a debate, thank you very much. [[...]] Then I give my word to Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u71	Mr President, I hope that we are still in democracy and that our Parliament is working democratically. There is not one truth, here everyone can express his opinion, and I am surprised by the personal attacks that have been directed against some. We wonder who needs this marriage. I'll tell you who needs him: the country most; then the dead need him and then the rest of us. Why the state? President Kučan also recently mentioned that we are going to the European Union. Of course, where were the people who knew about these things for 50 years, and now they're full of piettes? I'm not going to talk about patriotism because there's such an atmosphere here that everyone wants to say there was no revolution, there was no communism, there were no casualties. I wonder if there would be neither partisanism nor communism, what would our colleagues say today about 50 years of terror, non-democracy, totalitarianism and so on. That's why I'm not gonna talk about it. But what is interesting is that you are of all kinds of faith, but no one quoted faith as saying that the revolution was. Well, then you're talking about correcting history. Yeah, who's fixing history? The revolution was, for 50 years, talked about, wrote, monuments, markets, and so on. There are two countries in Europe that have not faced the past: for the first time Italy is about fascism and for the second time Slovenia is about communism. Everyone says that these victims should be buried in a pieteau. I agree with that, but it's a double talk, it's a double -- what did they mean by that? Look, the title of the law, the inscriptions on the graves, how to bury them, all this is open, and it suits those who want to conceal history. O [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And I don't want to talk because I think it makes no sense to talk like that. [[...]] But I'm going to say that I believe in NOB and I believe that NOB had two faces. One was brighter, the struggle against the invader. The second is a terrible darkness, but this is a revolution. Of course, now the revolution must no longer be, because then the argument that self-defense patriots should do what they are, but let's leave it. Those of you who interpret what happened only know what the regime's historians have written for 50 years. Now this thing's getting a little bit better. And if anyone fixes history, go look over there. As a result, I feel that we cannot base all truths on a Stalinistically oriented history of history. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, we had to listen to this story for 50 years. Now, please, give your opponent a chance to say what he thinks. We have a state ideology, a state ideology that everyone has to accept, otherwise they don't have a job, or any other thing, you know that, because you practice it yourself. That's why I think it's time we could talk about what we want and what we think. I don't deny to anyone what you're saying. None! You have every right. And so do I, and all my colleagues. If we really want this House to be democratic [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Then let's take this rule. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek was also reported to the replicas as the first and then Mr Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Because of other obligations, I was not present in this debate. But I came right at the moment of my colleague Partlich's performance. I must say, I was surprised. I was also surprised at Mr. Anderlich's performance. In fact, two things: relativizing postwar beatings, but not immediately after the war, but in those years of 1946, and all of them throw in a bag of some normal reactions. I understand them immediately after the war's over. But we don't throw everything in the same basket. I think humanists, the type of writer, should be aware of that first. Why are we having this debate today? Is it inevitable? I think in a situation like this, it's good that it is, and it's inevitable. At the same time, I note that it would not be necessary to do so, because there was enough time to avoid it in the previous regime in order for the previous regime to make a catharsis. There were, in my opinion, some attempts. I remember a speech on a partisan anniversary, by the academics Cyril Evil, when he spoke of the same pain of the mother on the one hand and on the other, and the right to a civilized grave, to the fifth to the death. And see, if the authorities of that time actually had a real purpose and a sincere desire, they could do much more. And we would have avoided it. At that time, this antigen syndrome was mentioned, and today it was mentioned again. I hosted the Greek delegation now, and I thought of that even more. Look, if there was a catharsis that was urgently needed, we wouldn't have it today. If, for example, our president could have been as powerful as German Chancellor Willy Brandt, who kneeled in Auschwitz and thus demonstrated in a symbolic way, the Germans, the German Nazism sinned. If our president were to kneel in Tehran, wear a wreath every year, but I don't know if TV has shut up, I think he could make a symbolic gesture and tell these Slovenians a lot. I also mean Willy Brandt, I don't mean the religious knee, because also Willy Brandt, as far as I know, was an atheist. But on a symbolic level, the umbilical cord ends with communist totalitarianism. These powers have not been managed by some important representatives of our country. I am also surprised that the government Members have denied an amendment of the government, which is more fair and more realistic in this area. And this last tone, Mr Anderlich, which you have dedicated to the partisan son, was spoken by two partisan sons, and we must stress here today, regretting that we come from the partisan families. That you have nothing to tell us that we may have been raised more consciously and more, but I would not like to debate this. And yet we must emphasize it. Don't threaten. But my special duty is to us who come from Styria because there was no white guard, where you try to remove everything else immediately with the descendants of the collaboration. Lucky for us there was no white guard and no cooperation during the war. But there was revolution and revolutionary terror and post-war terror. And thank God our parents have informed us of that. Those who are aware of all that begins to think are aware of the need to do so. I remember this year's interview with Janez Stanovnik, former president, in the New Year's edition of the Evening when he was talking about how the White Guard was formed. That in 1941 and 1942 there were numerous liquidations, and this was the beginning that people began to defend themselves. The same is true of Hribar in New Magazine, when she wrote that essay, she also quoted a letter from Edward Kardel Tito because of Tito’s demand that these liquidations be stopped. Edward Kardelj - Christophe, I think he was named at the time, said, "Well, if that's what you're asking, we'll stop it. But you know what they're meant for. We're going to force them into collaboration." Unfortunately, this happened in Slovenia. Unfortunately, this tragic fate has made Christophe and others happy. For this reason, I expect my fellow Members to actually go beyond this threshold of dogmaticism, as did Willy Brandt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. The replica is intended for Mr Anderlich when he said that today's discussion is actually being misused to change historical facts. The problem is that the actual discussion has been misused for 50 or more years. The problem is that the only national assembly in this country is the institution that has not yet been identified at symbolic level by a declaration until the half-time history in this area. There have been attempts, serious attempts, Mr Anderlich, you know, in the previous term. Most of the problems I think were right in your parliamentary group with regard to the formulation of that statement. And I'm not gonna say anything about who was guilty of failing the statement. However, I think it is a shame that it has not continued in this work and nothing has happened in this mandate. We are now in a situation where the government has adopted a declaration, Parliament has no such legal basis and, of course, we are scattered here. The government has rushed Parliament. We should probably ask ourselves at this point, all members of this national assembly, that we have done little in this regard. And that is exactly what I am sure is burdening the debate on this law, which speaks mainly of the organisation of the war graves of those who do not actually have an arranged grave or symbolic burial. I think that's the key issue. I'm not going to define myself, but I'm going to say the following. At this point, I am convinced that the only thing that was right was the government. The Government did the right thing because it first accepted the declaration and, on the basis of the declaration, it also drafted an amendment following the content of the declaration. I'm sure such an amendment is also the most solid at this time. He's actually talking about people who were killed for any reason after the war. There was a lot of talk about this today, and there were other occasions. But I know from my own places when others, parents, and others told me. There were a lot of people who were deceived who didn't even know. They picked up the spikes and the hooves, they went from home, and they went because that was the propaganda. In fact, they must withdraw, what will happen when the liberators arrive, and so on. But people were deceived. These people today do not have a decent grave or even a burial. I am convinced that this is a very difficult issue, and also a difficult debate that burdens us, burdens this generation, which, in fact, should have been dealt with substantially earlier by others, who were close to these events. As soon as we resolve this issue later, I think we will probably solve it harder, and even more fairly solve this issue. I am therefore convinced that the debate on this issue is very important. I would point out once again that it is a shame that Parliament did not adopt the so-called reconciliation declaration of events after World War II and even during it. In fact, there would be significantly less debate in this law, as well as probably different interpretations and formulations of different historical facts based on the debate of this law, Mr Anderlič. I think that this is a key mistake of this Parliament, of the mandates so far and of this mandate that it has not done so. I therefore propose that we make an effort, in spite of everything, and that this statement be formulated and adopted by Parliament in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you. We'll probably talk about it. I have a number of recorded replicas: Danica Simšič, then Leo Kremjar and Ivan Kebrič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I have a replica of quite a few debaters, from Mr Tsukjati, Kelemina, Bernika, Jerovska and also Mr Rokavac, and perhaps someone else. The fact is, everyone can really say what he wants, but, of course, he is responsible for his own words if not to himself. I firmly believe that Mr Tsukati is a reasonable person and that he knew exactly what it means to read the oath twice to Hitler in a democratic parliament, in Parliament and in a country seeking to join the European Union, whose democratic order and future life are based on anti-fascism and anti-nascism, and they have also written it in their documents, in the European Union, where we want to go. If I have read any historical books correctly, not just Slovenian books or just those written by Slovenian or Yugoslav authors, then there is a clear record of the history of who participated in the Allies and who in Hitler's coalition. And why am I answering, and I want to replicate? It is also for the thought expressed by Mr Anderlič that in the end it will only be written by who voted in favour and against and how the law was passed. Although I know that we are all fully aware that there is a complete debate in history under the law and that the message is what the legislator wanted to say by law, even in all the magnetograms and in all the debates. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues I previously appointed, had to expect some replicas. I believe that we are trying to replicate in a correct and dignified and civilized way. Once again, I understand this marriage as a marriage that wants to settle graves. I understand the fifth as the fundamental duty of the rule of law to ensure to all people, regardless of how history has been defined, and regardless of their belief in time of life, a worthy grave and a living place of memory. That's my firm conviction. That's what this law is about. However, when we discuss, some of you have started with this, about history and the reversal of history, it is necessary to list the facts that are known and clear, not only in Slovenia, but throughout the free and free-thinking world. Mr Jerovšek said that the President of the State, Mr Milan Kučan, should be able to do at least as many acts as Mr Willy Brandt did. Mr Jerovšek, you may have forgotten that the President of the State, Mr Milan Kučan, immediately after the change of the system went to the upright ceremony in Kočevski Rog, where he regretted all the victims where he regretted the acts, both on his personal behalf and on behalf of the State. And this act, this dignity, this greatness, as the president of the country, has succeeded. I think it's unfair for you to forget about that. And I'd like to say one more thing. I think that Mr Cuckoo, if not him, and someone else, was wondering - maybe Kelemina - what would have happened if there had not been a struggle against the invader and so on. Here, too, the facts are clear: there was occupation, there was resistance to the occupation, and we often say that without resistance to the occupation, there would not have been in 1991, and without 1991, today's democratic Slovenia would not have been. But there is something else to say, I am sorry, but I will say directly: without occupation, without resistance against the invader, without cooperation with the invader, there would be no tragic post-war beatings. And to conclude my thought, I think it would be right for everyone to try to focus only on the amendments and discussions on the amendments to this law, but I know that this is difficult. And it is also difficult for me to do this myself, because it is a broader dimension and I believe that if we fail to do so today, we will be able to continue to adopt a law that will properly bury all the sons and daughters of the Slovenian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you, too. I will read who else is reported to have no objection: Leo Kremjar, Ivan Kebrič, Bogdan Barovic, Dr Andrej Bajuk, Tone Anderlič and Jožef Jerovšek. These are replicas. I give my word to Leo Cremary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I mentioned the abuse of Parliament earlier, and I still think that this is an abuse of Parliament. The abuse of Parliament is that it is said that the law speaks of one matter and we are trying to explain other stories. Mr Rokavec said that he would suggest that we accept the declaration of reconciliation and I do not know exactly what you called it, so I will not quote it - this is, of course, legitimate and possible, but today and for three days, we are talking about something else on the third day. I'm not replicating you, we're talking about something else, and here's the abuse. And in every debate that followed this replica of mine, there was something about this abuse. France Tsukljati mentioned again: it is necessary to assess the communist violence - you can, you can do it, but it is not the subject of this law. And here's the abuse, Mr Sok, the abuse is when we're talking about livestock, and we're talking about, of course, solving economic problems with the Republic of Germany. It's abuse. And that is why I say that there is an abuse of Parliament if we are trying to take the matter somewhere else. And that's why it's not right, and that's why it's not fair to say it. Mr Cyril Evil was mentioned, this law wants to complete what he said at the time. There was a quote, colleague Jerovšek quoted Cyril the Wicked, nice and right, and it's a really great statement, and it's really that. And that's what this marriage wants to do, that's all. This marriage does not and must not talk about who is to blame and who is to blame and who is to blame, who is to blame. These are other judgments in second place, and they can do so, only then should the debate be opened. Then you have to say, "We are talking about this," and we will talk about if, of course, the will of the majority of this nation, which is why we are here, let me say again, not because of our own, such or other ideologies. And that's abuse. And as long as we do this, it's abuse, and I suggest, of course, that we stop this abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Kubrich Ivan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u81	I don't want to repeat, or excite, or cause new replicas, so I replicate some. Look, we don't deny anyone in this House the right to speak. I repeat to you and to your speakers, Mr Kelemina, but I do not want to trigger new replicas, so I will say this: Each of us has a right to speak, but each of us has a duty to stand by his own words, so we do not need lawyers. Each one of us has the right to listen to and understand the speaker, just as the power in his heart understands his own thinking. Once again, I like the song "The Glass of Immortality" very much, and I will quote only one version, which means a great deal and can make a great deal of contribution to ending certain debates, to end what we do, instead of splitting up, to unify ourselves and to benefit ourselves. This line of this verse reads, "Only in your works will you live forever." And I understand this philosophy by living forever the one who did good works, and also in his memory the one who was a criminal, or who was doing harm, or who was doing something else. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you, Comrade Kebrich. Yeah, we'll record it. It's Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to warn my fellow Members through the replica, especially Mr Rokavac. I will start with this: Mr Rokavec, you said that Parliament did not accept the declaration of reconciliation. The declaration of reconciliation at the state summit and at the state level was accepted, as far as I know. I've talked about her before. An integral part of reconciliation, an integral part of reconciliation, is this law we are talking about, and I have already proposed a hundred times: let us adopt the proposed law, let us leave the past and live in the future. Secondly, you said they had no dignity - that there are no decent graves and funerals for certain people. With this law we want to regulate it, so we are adopting this law today in a second reading. And if we move on, we'll take it. Third time. To say, indeed, in a democratic Parliament everyone has the right to speak and to express his opinion, and here I will be the first to stand for it. But, Your Honor - and I do respect him, Dr. Tsukjatja - the domestic detention does not belong to this Parliament and the dot. I completely understand what you're saying. You want the victims of war violence, the ones on the other side, to write, "Fall for the country." And that's enough if we suggest it, if the majority are in, it'll be accepted. When I was, I had to mention, on a visit abroad, listening to the stories and fates of the people we talk about, Unfortunately, in most cases I did not see the inscriptions to the victims of the occupation and the following was written - only this sentence was not available - everywhere it was written only: Victims of Communist violence. [[...]] I agree that it says that if there are victims of communist violence, but with colleagues, with Slovenians in place of political migration, on most of the inscriptions, not all of them, I have not seen the inscription of the Occupational Victims. But that's not why I'm opening a new debate. And the last thing I want to say. Colleagues and colleagues, as I have already said, do not belong to this Parliament. Let's forget it was even said. Let us proceed with the consideration of the amendments, we have a concrete proposal. But as far as history is concerned, we will not write it today with debate all day, and we will continue to do so tomorrow. History will be time-writing. Like Cankar said, the people will write their own judgment. Once again, I call on my colleagues and colleagues: let us address this law, which I understand as a reconciliation, which I understand as dignity, which we show to all those who have also been unjustly killed in post-war killings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you. The word has Dr. Andrey Bajuk, he signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I use the Institute of Replica to comment on part of the implementation of my colleague Grošlja when he said - I hope that I have understood correctly - that it would be inappropriate to talk about the patriotism of certain people, he specifically mentioned domesticism. Each of us has a personal history, each of us has a life-form. My destiny was that, as a very small child, I went through Love with my parents. And in the same or similar spirit as I once had to defend the good name of my late parents in this national assembly, I would like to say today that in my life’s temptation, which I have been raised and raised up among the people, during political emigration. There were also many domestics, including members of other formations. I can and feel the need to witness today about their love for my country and, finally, my Slovenian consciousness, which has accompanied me throughout my life, is also partly a witness to this. But surely it is also a fact - and here I am talking about the words of Mr Partljič - that we do not write here, we do not correct history and no one is trying to fix it. History is as it is, everyone understands it and interprets it in their power and in the way that life designed it. The fact is that we are also writing history today and this is supposed to be a step towards bringing the Slovenian people together. But the fact is that today, less than a hundred metres from the market for the revolution and where there is still a monument there, I declare with full responsibility that until Slovenia condemns with the same power and with the same conviction of Nazism, Fascism and communism, it will be difficult to count on reconciliation with us. Thank you very much. That is why I support the amendment proposed by New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. I give the floor to Tonet Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u87	Mr Rokavac, of course, would not have to be replicated if he had disputed with me, but apparently he did not properly interpret what I said: whether he did not understand or did not listen badly. But the fact is, Mr Rokavec, that you said that you had said that you had said that the LDS had prevented the declaration from being adopted in the previous term, but then, of course, you "repaired" you said, I will not say that someone objected. Go take a look at the magnetogram and that's exactly what you said. Mr Rokavec, the LDS adopted a declaration or a resolution at a congress a long time ago, at the highest authority talking about demarcating with totalitarian, communist, and so on, the regime - that is, one that was so cruel to you. I don't know about SLS that I would accept such a declaration; I don't know if it could, but I don't know. I also know that it was not possible to accept a declaration under the previous regime, because the domestic security was also quoted as being registered in the declaration. Is that supposed to be truth and reconciliation and so on? And you read to those who have done so - and publicly, if you like, and I will not burden this assembly, I will bring it to you during your recess, so that you will read it yourself, because it is completely clear and has been made public. And we also represented this, ask the former President of Parliament who led this coordination, and we also represented this in the context of the debates that were at the time. Thus, from this point of view, it is impossible to read something that you would like to hear that the LDS would do or, say, yourself. We have done so, and we stand by these views and do so. As a result, there is also a declaration or a resolution, a government statement which has been adopted, which I have quoted earlier when the law is being transmitted in the second reading, which we are now considering. And I'm sure you'll find in this what LDS thinks. And it is right that everyone, so the government, the president of the country, has made in the Horn, yet prayer has gone, not only to the upright act - Mr Jerovšek, but this is what I have told him now - so, since it has already been said, there is no need for him to do it again. But in another context, I say that it is right for the government to do what it has to do, and it is for the government to take care of graves, monuments and everything else on the basis of this law. The President of the State has declared himself, Parliament is adopting the law and I hope that there will ever be anything else if the situation matures. But probably, in a way that made it impossible to adopt this declaration unanimously in the previous term, because it was the aim of acclamation to accept this declaration, but because the insistence on the interpretations I spoke about was obviously not possible to reach an agreement. But you will not say, Mr Cuckoo, that if you say, if you read the domestic statement here, you will contribute to the formation of the true image and the true truth here. And to say that even though she was arrested, that she would be faithful under German and so on, that it was not taken from Hitler, Great Germany and so on - to whom? [[...]] And this will be written in our documents as sacred as anything else, i.e. the fight against the invader, against fascism, against Nazism, and so on, and so on, of course, we will have to talk for a long time at another opportunity, and it is right to talk and prepare a matter for adoption in Parliament, not at the time of amendments to the article of the law which speaks of the inscriptions that speak of something in this consideration, in this law. That's why it's going. Then make a proposal for a declaration and, of course, we will talk there.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Tone Anderlich. I give my word to the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem. He's quitting. Thank you very much. Then Joseph Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I don't know if Mrs Simšič's misunderstood me. I spoke very exactally about the meaning of symbolic actions. And I have a vivid memory of Willy Brandt kneeling in Auschwitz. Because my late father was watching this at the time, and he wasn't Williya Brandt's political sympathizer, but he said, "That's going to make a big difference. The German hasn't done it yet." And this happened, unlike Austria, and Italy. And such symbolic acts, confessions, repentance and this should also be capable of our then politicians. Of course, they were, but some of them were already there. And Mrs Simšičeva, of course I know exactly that Mr Kučan has attended some, but I have expected this symbolic Mr Anderlich to say that he has prayed. [[...]] [[...]] I don't know what that means: praying, praying. I know what it means, but if you pray, you also repent and so on, in terms of prayer. Look, and I deeply agree, Mrs Simšičeva, also with your conclusion. If there was no occupation, there wouldn't be this post-war violence. However, without occupation there would also be no abuse of NOB and partisanism. In 1941, 1942, according to Janez Stanovnik, the former president of the Presidency and an outstanding acquaintance of the situation at the time, because he was the chief of staff of Mr Kardel's office immediately after the war. And I think his knowledge is significantly greater than yours. But thank God, his conscience is also high enough to tell the Slovenian public, it is never too late to pour pure wine. And I'm sorry that the partisan sons here have to defend their good name to tell them such things. It's a sincere desire to get over it. But I have to tell you that I think - whether knowing Slovenian history, this period, is so bad on this side. I hope to say that I have read more from this area. And I see extremely poor knowledge, flattened. In fact, it is not possible to cross the threshold of some kind of dogmaticism. It's sad. And I must also speak to Mr Kremjar - not about the abuse of Parliament. Parliament cannot be abused. Maybe it could be the rules of procedure. The word is here in this House, however, cannot be misused. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Because that was what they said earlier when the congregation was when someone started the debate, and the congregation misused the public word. [[...]] Don't make these parallels. There should be a lot more to say, but I urge you to cross this threshold. Look, it's also humiliating for me that someone of my ancestors will be involved in post-war violence - they weren't there and don't use it, use exact terms. [[...]] There wouldn't have been any of these beatings if there wasn't an abuse of partisanism. And it's the bright face of partisanism that when we act like that, we want to defend against the history of patriotic emotions and patriotism, which has driven many. I think Styerski and I can talk more about this because I'm from Slovenia Bistrica, because it's not possible to assume that Tonet Partljič went through this defense of revenge right after the war. The entire Bistrica knew that there had been criminal exterminations there in 1946. And what should we call it, the post-war violence of all those who were involved in partisanism or something like that - no, there has to be enough honesty here to tell what caused those many victims. And I don't know why this - unfortunately in Slovenia the revolution got this negative call because it was abused because some political option used it as an attack on its people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. I give the floor to Mrs. Silva Crnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Today, I am turning with great ambition to all my colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, with a great desire, a great call, because we have all already called for the fact that we can actually do so much energy and show so much good will, that one proposal of the War Cemetery Act, which the Government has given to this technical law, is one way to adopt it, or in this second reading, and we will in fact demonstrate that we are able and that we are mature to overcome all these dilemmas that they are. Because it is, and we are probably all well aware, that it is difficult for Members to write a new history or have the opportunity to read another unreadable reading here where there is no room for it. We are here to consider this bill on war graves, to propose amendments, to make constructive proposals and comments on these amendments, because you are aware that all those who have chosen us listen to all these words, and how many words I have actually delivered to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, believe me, that they do not like to hear how long we have been discussing graves and I also may have a bad conscience that we have so much attention and so many hours and minutes devoted to this subject and that the present and the future and what actually every individual in Slovenia is doing the most, and perhaps much less. So once again, I appeal to all of you to show such good will and to discuss the upcoming amendments, and then you have the opportunity to reject them or to approve them in some way. We're not writing history today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you. I would like to invite and ask all those who have been reported to the replicas and debates whether or not you give up the debates and the replicas? Then I give my word to my colleague Kelemini.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Well, I would like to replicate to Mr Kebrich, as well as to Mrs Danica Simšič, because they have previously challenged me by saying that Members must answer for their words in the National Assembly and that they do not need lawyers and so on. I agree with that, of course, but still, when you exaggerate, and when you really even pretend something and create certain statements and even more potential, as they have been said, then I must be committed to protecting my fellow Member. Well, not just that. You have now given here a sentence, especially Mr Jakič, to what it is now for social democracy and what the social democratic party is doing here, and so on. Don't talk like that. I didn't come to the Social Democratic Party to discuss partisans and patriots here, but I don't know what else. That's not why I'm here. And there's nothing in any of our documents that could have prevented me from coming to the socialist party for that. Otherwise, Mr Anderlič said that you have identified yourself to the totalitarian communist system. Now I don't know how other parties are: the United List, the People's Party and so on, and I don't care about that either. In fact, however, here all Members think a little differently. And not now some more customer connotations here to add and even greater disputes to work between customers, these options, other options and so on. Don't do that! In such a case, however, I am obliged to defend these things, and I do not want us to have any worse conflicts than they have been in history. If we are not capable now of knowing all this history and all that has happened around us, of being more pragmatic or of overcoming all these weaknesses that have happened before, then I don't know, then it almost doesn't make sense that at all - the best thing to do is to take the rifles and then start shooting each other or whatever, I don't understand these things anymore. But it is the fact that history is often misplaced or history has also written what I know, history has written communist history, it has written domestic history, and other historical writings have happened; our thing is, whether we read these things, we will take something from all contexts, how and what, or whether we will take only unilaterally and unilaterally these things. That's our thing. In short, I don't want these things to be charged in such a way, client-to-client manner, but the big question that always comes to me is whether - let's say - after the war this account that happened was really needed to the extent that it happened. I'm always asking a question here, and I'm always judging. And, of course, I can't agree with that. Just like some others. In short, I would like to ask you not to come up with this party opposition or to deal with this issue. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you. My friend Jakich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u95	Mr Vice-President, first of all, I would like to ask that, of course, we stick to the rules of procedure. But the book says, it says exactly what replicas are. So, correction of references. And that is why, of course, I will replicate to Dr. Tsukati and to Mr. Kelemini, not only of course that 'the people keep the evidence', but thank God, of course, the magnetogram is available in recent times, and this proof is the spoken word. In fact, it seemed to me that I didn't understand what Dr. Tuckati said, and then I realized that he didn't say what he meant or what he meant, he didn't say and so on. Look, Dr. Tsukati said in his implementation, quote, "Because we're still listening to the disqualification of domestics with collaborationism and their arrest to Hitler, let me read this domestic document this time." He read it twice. Finally, he found out, quote: "Domobranska prescribing is not confined to Hitler, but to his superiors; while he promises to cooperate with the German armed forces, the ultimate goal is, I quote, "Slovenia's homeland as part of a free Europe". It's in oath." And, of course, my replica didn't go into the value judgment of patriotism, I didn't touch it at all. Of course, I have made it clear to Dr. Cuckati that such implementation is not in his pride and not in the pride of the Social Democratic Party. For free Europe; according to Hitler, of course, Europe, cleansed of Jews, Gypsies, homosexuals, handicapped people and so on. And, of course, the Slovenes, not least. And that is why, Mr Kelemina, I have said that it is not an honor of the Social Democratic Party and I will of course - perhaps I am unobjective - subjective. That is why I will - next week, the meeting in Lucerne of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I will be your pandan, the real president of the conservative European group, says Mr Van den Lindn of the Netherlands, to read this and I will ask him what he thinks about this statement by the candidate, the Social Democratic Party, for membership in this international international. So that I wouldn't be subjective, but to see if my colleague, Mr Van den Linden, feels the same way as I do. That is to arrest Hitler in the direction of a free Europe. It's not working! Unfortunately, it doesn't work. That's my opinion. But I will check it out and I will definitely, Mr Kelemina, answer Mr Van den Lindn - and other colleagues from your delegation - bring it back to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Roman Jakich. I'm giving Leopold Grošl a word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have to replicate Dr. Bajuku. Otherwise, I find that we are about the same age and that even if we were in our own way, I would say we are experiencing, if I may say so, these horrors of World War II, but we can also have our own view. As you said, the love of the country, as you mentioned, for your father, of course I can say so myself about my father, who I lost in 1942, and also about my mother, who worked actively and organized for the NOB and had this in double count, by saying that she was never a member of the Communist Party until she died three years ago. Of course, I'm proud of her, too, that she went after her brother in 1944 and brought him from the German army among the partisans, who, unfortunately, was killed by a janitor's bullet. I also find that my keypad, which fell on Slivna on 24 December 1944, and Mr Rokavec should also ask his cousins, who he says have heard and heard, who also fell from his own hands. And from that point of view, I think I have every moral and other right to say in public that I cannot admit that patriots, any kind of love they have, could admit patriotism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you. Now, given the hour, I'm going to break this agenda. Since we have in front of us the replicas of Comrade Drobnič, colleague of Potrate, colleague of Cukjati and Brenčič, then we have the discussions of colleagues of Sok, Danica Simšič, Brenčič Stanislav and the state senator. Of course, we don't put this under the roof until 1300 hours, and the replicas, including Dr. Bernik's replica - the debate? [[It's a debate.]] Thank you very much for explaining. That's it. We will continue the meeting at 2.30 p.m. with the agenda item "Proposal for an invitation to tender for an advisory referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO". All colleagues and colleagues, I call on you to be in the hall at exactly 2.30 p.m. because we have here the President of the country, Mr Kučan. The agenda item that I'm interrupting right now, we're going to continue on the "Nato" point. Thank you so much for your cooperation and a good run!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u99	Dear colleagues and colleagues!First we will determine the presence in the hall, please press the "quorum" button. You can take the card out of my office, please. Please press the "quorum" button. 57 colleagues and colleagues are present, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded. Before we move on to THE SECOND "C" OF THE DAY LINE, allow me to say the following: colleagues and colleagues, Mr President of the State, Mr Prime Minister, this day ten years ago the Slovenian flag struck the United Nations Palace in New York. This has also confirmed, in this most important way, the international legitimacy of the new Slovenian state, a great moment for the new Slovenia, strongly anchored in the memory of the present and, I believe, even future generations, so allow me to congratulate all our people on behalf of the National Assembly on this important jubilee. We are moving on to a proposal for a consultation referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the relationship of NATO, some of our colleagues apologized for this afternoon, including a colleague of Dr. Slavko Gaber and a colleague of Victory Jelinčič. I especially welcome among us the President of the Republic, Mr Milan Kučan. He responded to my invitation to attend at this point in the agenda. The President of the Republic himself expressed his wish to deliver his opinion in person to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Before I invite the President of the Republic to the floor, I will ask that, on behalf of the Group of Members, the national assembly of colleague Peter Levič. Please, you have the floor. Mr Levič is the first to be signed by the Group of Members to make a proposal for an advisory referendum. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u100	Mr President Milan Kučan, distinguished Prime Minister Drnovšek, members of the government, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. The year 2002 is an important year for Slovenia, particularly in the field of international cooperation. Slovenia has successfully closed its negotiating chapters and is approaching the European Union, while in Prague it expects an invitation to join NATO. On this historic decision in the Party of Youth of Slovenia on 22 March 2002 we submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a consultation referendum on the integration of Slovenia into NATO. Let me briefly present just a few arguments why this extremely important decision should be decided by all citizens directly before the invitation. The decision to join NATO is historic, as it is linked to a number of decisions, both substantive, political and financial, which will affect the lives of citizens and their consequences will undoubtedly be longer than our mandates. In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that it is up to all citizens to decide directly on the inclusion or possible non-involvement of Slovenia. The issue of inclusion is therefore a complex issue that will lead to a number of changes, not only in the area of defence, because we know that NATO has not only been a defence liaison since its establishment, but it is also a political and economic union. Undoubtedly, however, it is best known as a military union, following Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, in which Member States promised military assistance if any of them were attacked. As a political alliance, in the preamble to the North Atlantic Treaty, it has already committed itself to the protection of freedom, common heritage and civilisation of nations, based on the principles of democracy, personal freedom and the rule of law. As an economic union, cooperation between Member States stems from the so-called Marshall’s aid, which was intended to restore the economy and infrastructure after World War II and is based on a market economy that respects competition rules. The main objective of the founders in this area is to promote stability and prosperity in the North Atlantic. The complexity of the issue regarding NATO is also reflected in the adjustment of the relationship to the new security and political situation in the world, such as the fall of the Iron Curtain. NATO was no longer a military crisis, represented by the Soviet Union until then, but a political one. Thus, in 1991, the North Atlantic Partnership Council, now known as the Euro-Atlantic Council, was subsequently established. Within the framework of this Council, Member States have met with the emerging democracies of Central and Eastern Europe. In the military area, however, the new situation was adapted in 1994 by establishing the Partnership for Peace, allowing cooperation between Member States and emerging democracies in the military field. Slovenia has been involved in the Partnership for Peace since its inception, has participated in the humanitarian actions "Sunrise" and "Allied Harbour" in Albania, humanitarian actions in Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia. The NATO Alliance has accepted the new members four times. In the 1950s, Greece and Turkey were first adopted, only a few years later, Germany was adopted, and in 1982, Spain became a full-fledged member. In 1999, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland entered. The key criterion for membership is respect for the fundamental principles of democracy. Due to the geopolitical changes in the world, in the Party of Young Slovenia we have decided to propose an invitation to an advisory preliminary referendum, says the referendum before the invitation to a relationship, so that citizens can decide impartially and will not be invited under the influence. We are convinced that in the event of a reference to the invitation, citizens will decide to involve Slovenia in the relationship and then, under the influence of the invitation, the consequences of the inclusion will not be taken into account in their decision. In summary, according to the most respected constitutional law authorities: Mr Franz Grad, Igor Kavčič, Cyril Ribičič and Ivan Kristan, the authors of the book State regulation: "For particularly difficult issues, the consultation referendum is not only an effective means of testing public opinion, but also to determine the direction of solving a particular issue. The representative body thus strengthens its legitimacy, and a decision that is consistent with human will is more favourable among people and therefore more realistic in practice. Unlike the mandatory legal referendum, where voters temporarily take the mandate of the representative body to decide on a particular matter on their own, this will not happen in the case of the consultation referendum. Parliament retains the role of independent legislator, and the decision is entirely in Parliament's hands, which can be taken in accordance with or contrary to the voter opinion expressed. In the second case, it will expose itself to the criticism of the majority of voters and its decision will by no means be legally questionable." Part of the proposals for a consultative referendum on Slovenia's integration into NATO also suggested that the position of the political elite differs from that of Slovenian citizens whose opinion is increasingly shared or increasingly opposed to Slovenia's involvement in NATO. This problem is reflected in recent public opinion research, after which support for Slovenia's inclusion in NATO is falling. Since 1997, when 85% of respondents supported the integration into the NATO Union in February, 21% opposed it and 20% were undecided; in 2002 these figures were already quite different. 45% of respondents supported Slovenia's involvement in the relationship, 36% opposed it and 19% were undecided. In the event of an invitation to the Alliance's November summit, a decision will then have to be taken quickly, perhaps even this year. The National Assembly is elected by the electorate, the citizens and their task is to represent their opinions in their decisions. However, if the views of Members of the National Assembly differ from that of citizens, they shall present the people with arguments as to why they have different views and try to convince them with real arguments of what the advantages are and what Slovenia will have to give up in the event of the Republic of Slovenia's inclusion or non-involvement in NATO. With the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on Slovenia's integration into the Union, we would then like to remove one of the two reasons that the government negotiators state why an invitation to Prague may not occur. The first reason is the increase in the percentage of gross social product allocated by Slovenia for defence, and the increase in these funds has already been planned. Second of all, the negotiators state too low support for NATO among Slovenian citizens, since NATO’s relationship with a member whose public opinion on the relationship is shared both in Slovenia and in Slovenia would have been weakened earlier. With the holding of the consultation referendum at the end of June, we would then send a clear impetus whether Slovenia supports this international link or not. Slovenia will show a significantly greater seriousness and a higher degree of democraticism by making a referendum decision before the invitation to the association. As I have already said, this is such an important historical issue, which is of wider importance to all citizens, and by calling for a referendum before an invitation to ensure impartial decision-making, the State Assembly, which otherwise bears this decision, will undoubtedly strengthen its legitimacy, since the decision will be in line with the will of the people, while the decision will be made more favourably between the peoples or will not be opposed in the future. With the proposed consultation referendum, all political parties will also be directly committed to taking decisions by their fellow citizens. The stand of young Slovenia has decided to propose a call for a previous consultation referendum, so that citizens will not be invited to Prague under pressure. The impartiality and objectivity of Slovenia's decision to join the alliance will then be achieved by ensuring that the referendum is not signed together with local, or presidential, or with a referendum for the European Union, but on its own, because it is only by ensuring that decisions on various matters do not affect each other. On April 17, at the round table, Dr. Miro Cerar said that the referendum was necessary in this situation of bipolar opinion on membership, thus giving legitimacy to the government and authorities. When to prepare a referendum, however, he believes that the political issue will be decided by the carrier of political power in Slovenia. Therefore, in the Party of Young Slovenia we ask, dear colleagues and colleagues, whether the word democracy in Slovenia will be only a phrase and its citizens are only important before the elections. In the Youth Party, we are confident that if the national assembly elections were this year, we would all be screaming at how important the voice of the people is and that all citizens must decide as soon as possible and directly. Well, there's something else I'd like to add, and our proposal for a referendum has been tabled on 22 March. It was listed at the 14th regular meeting and was moved to the following meeting on account of excessive work, the 19th extraordinary meeting as a priority point. But it was moved again. Today, after two months, we will finally deal with it. This is clearly an abuse of business rules, as the proposal for an advisory referendum is not only one of the agenda items that can be transferred from one meeting to another, but directly touches on the historical decision concerning all citizens and citizens directly. Dear colleagues, I would warn you that today we are deciding on a clear, specific question: shall we call a referendum or not? According to recent public opinion polls, 70 per cent of the respondents supported the interim consultation referendum and would have participated if it had been announced tomorrow. Members of the SMS ask and ask you whether the opinion of the people is still valid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you, Comrade Levich. You have presented the views of the Group of Members whose first signature you have been signed. Mr President, once again I welcome you to the National Assembly and give you my word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u102	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Prime Minister, Madam Members of Parliament and honourable Members. I was happy to respond to the invitation of the President of the National Assembly to attend today's meeting. I consider the debate on Slovenia's involvement in the Euro-Atlantic alliance and the referendum to be very important. I would also like to take note of my own view of Slovenia's entry into NATO and of the referendum on this important action for the future of our country. On 16 January this year, I was already talking about this in these rooms at the public presentation of opinions on NATO and the entry of Slovenia. I say again: for the safe and successful future of Slovenia, for the future of its national identity, for its stable position in the international community, for its openness to global, material and spiritual flows, for its active involvement in world events, for the opportunity to assume its share of responsibility for the world and for its future; or, if I say simply, for the sake of living safely and creating in peace, entering NATO, and, of course, to the European Union, for us, in my firm belief, in the present situation is the only appropriate and useful choice. It may be an objection that this is the least bad choice, but it is not ideal, because the world is not ideal either. And it's not done according to our wishes. The economic, in particular capital and informational, is globalised, but at the same time it is divided and full of contradictions. In the new millennium, the world has accompanied us with all the dilemmas and all the big questions of the previous century, without even having answers to them. Now we're looking for them all together for humanity. There can be no good, reliable answers if we are looking beyond thinking about the real picture of Europe and the real picture of the world and their possible future. The world is connected and strongly co-dependent in good and, unfortunately, also evil. Getting into the illusion of an isolated, safe and peaceful island in the middle of a stormy world would be irresponsible to citizens and their security and peace. The provision of these two goods; the provision of safe life and the creation of prosperity in peace with the proper defence of the country; is the fundamental duty of the administrators of every democratic state. They are obliged to know and understand the world and their vision of the world and their actions that are justified in it, to communicate to citizens and to create an alliance and support with them for these actions. The world is divided today. On the one hand, people, social groups, nations, countries already living their future in such a world, including Slovenia, on the other hand, people, social groups, peoples, countries, almost whole continents, who are suppressed into social, economic and technological slavery without the possibility of participating in the accumulated wealth and knowledge of humanity, without opportunity and with an uncertain future. Such situations, which will not change on their own, are fertile ground for radical acts of hopelessness, for fundamentalism, for terrorism and also for all kinds of organised international crime. But people are not prepared to accept life at the brink, and such fates resist. The world is intertwined between peace and the dangers of constant conflict. They are, in essence, not wars between cultures, religions, civilizations, but struggles for survival, for the right to live their own lives and for the future. However, they are also an opportunity to develop ideological populism, xenophobia and racism, or even purely criminal purposes, where criminals can acquire chemical, biological and atomic weapons and cause humanitarian and ecological catastrophes of global proportions. These conflicts are only at first sight local or regional. In fact, sooner or later, they're hurting the whole world. So are we. Nothing else happens just one more time, because the whole world is closely connected, the fate of everyone has become the fate of everyone. The Balkans, Afghanistan, the Middle East and other unstable areas are also our problem. Illegal migration, drug trafficking, weapons, white goods, human organs are also our problem. Both indirectly and even directly affect our safety. The Euro-Atlantic area is becoming an economic, political and valuable single area with all the differences that have emerged over time. These preserve their identity, including us Slovenians, but seek ways to be able to speak in common languages on issues of the common future and on vital issues of the world; to enable Europe to play an active and responsible role in the global dialogue as one of the centres for the development of human civilization. To establish itself in this dialogue as a special, political, social and spiritual entity. Such ambition can be based on Europe's experience and on what it has achieved in the turn of the century. It becomes an area that, in all historical and other conflicts, but successfully preserves peace, promotes equal and fruitful relations between countries, eliminates the consequences of former political divisions, creates a common economic space, develops technologies of the 21st century, raises quality of life and has a future. Russia, with all its specificities and challenges, is now entering this area with great steps. However, many of the advantages of living in this space cannot be shared by anyone who does not take up his part of the responsibility for the good of this place. Thereafter, the European Union and the European Union are complementary organisations of this area to play such a role for Europe, including in ensuring its defence and security. Any new European Union security action, from foreign policy to police and military action, is and will always be part of the Euro-Atlantic defence and security policy. As the European Union relieves North America of its responsibility for a safe and peaceful Europe, which it has imposed on it by its irresponsible conduct, with wars of the previous century more and more, it will at the same time become a stronger and stronger pillar of the Euro-Atlantic alliance. Therefore, the choice is not the European Union or NATO, somewhere in the future it is certainly more than just a formal conflict. But we're deciding now. It is a choice for us to either both or to close ourselves at the edge of an unstable region, to live in the imaginary world of peace and the illusion of no threat. We decide to best protect the life and dignity of all human beings in order to safeguard their freedom to belong to national, religious or other society, the right to diversity, tolerance and solidarity, openness to others and other, legal and social security, the free market. This can be a common denominator of values that must be accepted and therefore also protect all mankind and all its great civilizations. They can be a valuable foundation of common ethics required by the management of the free world and an equal and responsible relationship in the international community. In fact, these are the values that led to the ideas of European economic communities and the strengthening of the Euro-Atlantic alliance in the ruins of World War II and aware of the dangers of the Cold War decades ago. Knowing all this, honourable Members, I am confident that this is a good and safe place for our country to enter Slovenia into the European Union and NATO. But I am aware that our lives under the auspices of this place, with all the advantages and benefits, also bring responsibilities. Dear Members and honourable Members! So, what do we decide when we decide to join NATO? We decide on peace; we decide on an active role in the Euro-Atlantic alliance for peace. We do not decide for him because of the war, we do not want war as we never wanted.And today he is not preparing to wage conquest wars in the battlefields of the world, but to ensure peace and security for all those nations and countries that agree on common fundamental values that allow for the patient and peaceful co-existence of mankind. Then he changed and changed. It adapts to changing world conditions. It is no longer a formidable fist, but a deadline for participation in defence of these common fundamental values is offered. Following a recent agreement on specific modalities for NATO's cooperation with Russia, there can be no longer any doubt about this. I was among those who had to decide whether to respond with weapons to the war imposed on us by the Yugoslav army in June 1991 to defend our plebiscite decision on Slovenia's independence. I was among those who later negotiated peace. I do not want anyone, a member of any future family of Slovenians, to be in a position to decide war and peace. It is well known that the way to peace is long and that the longest path is the one that leads to peace through war. That is why we are now obliged to do everything we can to avoid war, so that our security and peace will not be threatened again, so that we do not have to defend them. This is our decision when we decide on our membership in NATO. Today's NATO isn't from the Cold War. Not us Slovenians either. The world no longer lives in a cold war. Our security and peace threaten other dangers. These risks, however, do not take account of the borders of countries, do not comply with international rules, do not take account of the neutrality of countries. This and other facts force us to think about how we can tackle these modern dangers that threaten global security and peace and thus also life on the planet in general, successfully defend ourselves. Effective defence is provided today only by the collective defence system in the collective security system. This one is built on the belief that peace is indivisible. In this system, it is not possible to expect others to defend our peace and our security, but they themselves would not be willing to do anything for their defence and for their common security. National egoisms with the collective defence system are incompatible. Solidarity, that's what it is. This is a fundamental principle of alliance. Individual defence against modern threats is not effective if possible, and the top of everything is much more expensive than active participation in collective defence and alliance. When we decide to be a NATO member, we decide on alliances. Our experience also speaks of the success of the Slovenians in protecting our freedom and our existence when we fought in democratic alliances. This was the case at the time of the collapse of Austro-Hungarians, so it was in World War II, so it was in the fight for the Slovenian independent state, and so today it is in the effort to preserve peace in the Balkans and to destroy international terrorism. I've already said that we decide for NATO for peace, to ensure peace and security. That is why it is also good to know that, should anyone ever delay in the future to threaten our peace and security or want to settle some old accounts with us, he should count that Slovenia is part of a democratic Euro-Atlantic alliance - to do so with the entire alliance, and not only with a relatively small and vulnerable Slovenia. All of these are benefits that we will enjoy in our NATO membership, if we are to talk about the benefits already. I know that Slovenia is at risk of becoming a target of international terrorism by joining NATO. As if it were not now and as if the drug trade, which our children are victims of, and other waves of international organised crime from which terrorism is fueled, do not come to us, as if they had forgotten where our Slovenian people had already defended the peace and fundamental values of democracy when they were threatened. They were defended on the II battlefields. World wars throughout Europe in the National Liberation Army military units established by the Slovenians were violently mobilized into the occupying armies when they found themselves in voluntary captivity. They fought as part of allied armies against the invaders of their homeland. Slovenians fought in overseas brigades, brigades established, in the former Soviet Union, and elsewhere, in Allied military uniforms, to end the war on Slovenian soil and with our liberation. Not to mention where the Poles, the Czechs, the Americans, the Russians, the British, the French and other allies fought far from their homelands before Nazism was broken. On all fronts, freedom and democracy, ours and ours, were defended in the alliance. We must do everything we can to ensure that this will never happen again. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The decision on Slovenia's entry into then many citizens and citizens have a well-founded experience of being very important and want to participate. Therefore, the debate on this has already been very useful. It also speaks of being part of the citizens in doubt whether Slovenia should enter NATO at all, and there is a great deal of restraint until now in favour of our entry. Therefore, a thorough, clear, precise and responsible explanation of the defence, security and future of our country will be needed. That's good and that's good. Democracy is not only the right to vote in democratic elections, it is also the right to participate in major decisions. Therefore, it is the right to discuss all important issues of the country, without the questions or opinions being expressed, to obtain ideological or even personality ethics. Democracy is also a culture. People have the right to think differently. We owe it to them to hear, to put the argument against the argument, their argument. We are obliged to work for the trust of and alliance with people, such as plebiscite in 1990 and war for Slovenia and peace negotiations. At that time, it was the precious support of all men. That's the way it is today. A democratic, substantive debate, not about people who say anything, but about the things they say, is the first condition for responsible, including the referendum decision that still awaits us in the choice: Slovenia yes or no in NATO. It is understandable that NATO wants to know whether Slovenia would accept any invitation. However, Slovenia cannot comment on the invitation until it is officially informed that it will receive it. The imaginary conundrum is solvable. There are official institutions in Slovenia and NATO that can agree on when Slovenia will have to make a clear and democratic decision on its own whether to accept an invitation. It's already real to think about. In Reykjavik, a political decision on NATO's enlargement was recently taken. It will be even more realistic when we have a reliable and convincing assessment at home that we meet all the criteria for NATO membership and for our effective contribution to strengthening the defence capacity of the Alliance, so that we reasonably expect an invitation. Our government has all the necessary information and analysis for this decision. I'm sure the Prime Minister Drnovšek will introduce you to them. He had contacts with the leading people of the most influential countries in the alliance. His proposal, when to hold a referendum, will therefore be most credible. You will decide, ladies and gentlemen, you. It is my view that it is such an important decision on the future of Slovenia that it is right to be spoken about by citizens and citizens at the referendum. It is also for the responsible purpose of verifying the compliance of the operators of the State with the will of the people. Also, and in particular in terms of compliance with their expectations of plebiscite in 1990, Slovenia will be a country that will provide its citizens with, inter alia, a peaceful and secure life and respect for fundamental values that respect the dignity of man and his life and legal and social security. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! After good ten years of independent Slovenian state, we are ahead of an important decision. At that time, we succeeded because politics expressed people's will and acted democratically. Plebiscite for Slovenia alone was a plebiscite for the future that is being created today in the Euro-Atlantic Alliance, in NATO and in the European Union. That's why it's our place of life. I trust in the wisdom of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. I firmly believe that after the conclusion of the debate in Slovenia, there will be a sober, rational and reasoned positive reflection on Slovenia's participation in the Euro-Atlantic Alliance. We are the first to bear responsibility for such an outcome by the Heads of State. It is important that the National Assembly and its parliamentary representatives now reaffirm their commitment and support to the direction of Slovenia in Euro-Atlantic links, the European Union and NATO. This will be an extremely strong incentive to achieve the greatest consensus in society on this important decision and in our later credible life in this democratic alliance. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your opinion and for your willingness to give your opinion to the National Assembly in person. You kindly asked me if I could inform my colleagues and colleagues that you would like to follow the debate until 6 p.m. when the other state obligations invite you. I think you're having dinner with the president of Kazakhstan. The proposal for a referendum and government information was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Chairman of the committee, colleague Kacin, I invite him to deliver the opinion of the working body. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u104	Mr President of the State, Mr President of the Prime Minister, Mr President of the National Assembly, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, honourable speakers! International security is not only a sum of national security, but also a definition of appropriate values in relations between countries. With its membership in NATO, as well as other international organisations, Slovenia is pursuing its fundamental foreign policy objectives and interests. Membership represents the possibility of implementing Slovenian global policy, is in the function of strengthening Slovenia's international position and promoting national interests. In the light of these insights, the Committee on Foreign Policy has discussed the relationship between NATO, the approximation, integration and the proposed referendum over the past three weeks. At its 53rd meeting on 11 April this year, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered, on the basis of a written proposal by a member of the Committee, Jožef Jerovška, the item on the agenda "preparation for Slovenia's involvement in NATO, the political and security strategic importance of its integration into NATO". The proposer presented the reasons for addressing the above-mentioned topic. He stressed that it is the task of the Committee and all politicians to respond to the progress of preparations for the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to NATO and to the public to clarify the political, security and strategic importance of membership in relation to NATO for our country. He cited Dr Anton Grisold's statement that it is high time for the government, parliament and civil society to be aware of the seriousness of the issue and to be clearly defined as regards NATO membership. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, briefed the members of the Committee on the course of the presentation of the final phase of the third round of the implementation of the Action Plan for Membership and the readiness of the Republic of Slovenia to become a member in relation to NATO in the context of the newly concluded North Atlantic Council of NATO in Brussels, which had participated with the Minister of Defence. He said that Slovenia was assessed as a credible candidate for the interlocutors who made great progress in the implementation of the Action Plan and which actively contributed to the regulation of the situation in South-Eastern Europe. At the same time, it will have to intensify its activities in some areas. He explained that the speakers in Brussels most frequently raised the issue of the reasons for the decline of public opinion support on the integration of Slovenia into NATO, the share of gross domestic product that Slovenia is prepared to devote to the field of defence, and the questions of the possible call for a referendum on Slovenia's accession to NATO. In addition to the issues mentioned above, the interlocutors were also interested in issues relating to relations with the Republic of Croatia, regarding the Slovenian efforts to develop developments in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the course of ownership, denationalisation, the adoption of legislation in the field of public administration reform, the control of arms exports, security development, the establishment of an Office for the Protection of Secret Data, and also when a law on defence enabling the participation of Slovenian forces in operations will be adopted on the basis of the fifth article of the Washington Treaty. The Minister of Defence introduced plans and documents in the field of security and defence. He highlighted four options for providing security - the establishment of his own army by building his own rational defence system and integrating into the collective security system of the United Nations organization, the conclusion of bilateral agreements to secure security guarantees, the acquisition of neutral status and the inclusion of European or Euro-Atlantic security, political and economic ties. He considered that the last option at a given time and in the near future for Slovenia was optimal. With regard to the public, the multiple questions raised about the costs of involving our country in the relationship, NATO said that only approximate estimates of those costs were made in public and that the assumptions were not based on concrete studies. This, as he thought, is due mainly to the lack of domestic experts who could draw up the appropriate methodology for calculating such costs and the production of analyses at the relevant international institutes is very expensive. In particular, he pointed out that the question of joining NATO was not only about how much we would contribute to the common budget, but also about how much we would receive from it, and he cited the example of the Czech Republic, which received around $90 million from the total budget of NATO last year. The issue of the Slovenian contribution to the common budget of the Union will therefore, in the first place, be the question of the ability of negotiators to join. He also felt that public awareness of Slovenia's integration process should then continue in a way that would allow the public to receive specific, comprehensive and practical information. The aggressive media campaign, by citing positions only for Slovenia's entry into NATO, would be counterproductive at a given time, as he said. The Chairman of the Committee stressed that political parties should determine whether the external strategic priorities contained in the joint statement on support for Slovenia's integration into NATO, which was signed by all parliamentary parties in 1997, should be applied to the internal political competition. He felt that the public must be convinced that it was not the interests of individual Members or political parties, but that it was the national strategic interest and priority of the country that Slovenia could take advantage of or lose and is thus excluded from the enlargement process. He also drew attention to the need for cooperation with the smaller Member States of NATO. In the debate, the members of the Committee drew attention to the problem of insufficient information and information to the public. They stressed the need to find a way of communicating that will be acceptable to the public and will offer comprehensive answers to doubts that can also be legitimate. They considered that the public should be informed of the specific cases and advantages of membership in relation to NATO. It is necessary to present the precise cost assessments required to establish stable security of the country and the advantages of integrating them into the collective security system provided by NATO. The members agreed with the chairman of the Committee that the integration into NATO is one of Slovenia's foreign policy priorities and cannot be the subject of external and internal political accounts. They stressed that politicians should clearly identify themselves on this issue, so that the public will also be informed of the views they are advocating. They pointed out that with the fall of public support for integration, then political parties should not succumb to the temptation of populism, but should formulate their programme in a state-of-the-art manner consistent with their political beliefs. Finally, they added that it is necessary to support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its efforts to achieve this foreign policy objective, namely to join NATO. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ignac Golob, proposed that the Committee should adopt a decision to hold a debate on the preparations for Slovenia's accession to NATO, if possible before 14 and 15 May, and, if not possible, at the May State Assembly. After the end of the discussion, the members of the Committee adopted the following conclusions: "The Foreign Policy Committee once again notes that NATO membership is a priority for the Republic of Slovenia for justified political, security and strategic reasons, and therefore the State authorities are obliged to take part in public awareness of the meaning of the admission of the Republic of Slovenia to NATO. The Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to hold a debate as soon as possible on the preparations for Slovenia's admission to NATO and the awareness of the Slovenian public of the importance of involving the Republic of Slovenia in NATO and to adopt decisions on the tasks of the State authorities to achieve this objective." At its 55th meeting, held on 8 May this year, the Committee of the National Foreign Policy Assembly also considered the proposal for a consultative referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO, submitted to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members with first-signed Petr Lević. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, which considered that in accordance with Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in accordance with Articles 26 and 28 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, all the conditions allowing the national assembly to decide on that proposal for an advisory referendum were met. The secretariat also explained in its opinion that the State Assembly, in accordance with Article 29 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, is not bound by the outcome of the consultation referendum in a legal sense, which means that the State Assembly can also take a decision that is inconsistent or even contrary to the referendum outcome, which, of course, takes political responsibility for any such decision. The Committee also took into account the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which opposes the call for an advisory referendum, as proposed by the Group of Members. While the government does not exclude and oppose the implementation of the referendum, as stated in its opinion, the conditions must be met. In this regard, as one of the elements essential to the decision-making process, she highlighted the invitation to membership. At the same time, she felt that, at the time of the invitation, the referendum decision had not yet been premature. The Chairman of the Committee informed the members of the Committee in the introduction that he had talked to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovsko, as well as to the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan, on the proposal for an advisory referendum. He explained that the government had forwarded its position to the National Assembly in writing on the proposal, while President Kučan explained that he had presented his official position in the 7th edition of the Studio on Radio Slovenia, which was on 24 April this year. He also informed the members of the Committee that President Kučan had also expressed his willingness to participate personally in the meeting of the National Assembly when he would discuss the proposal and present his views on the proposal. On behalf of the applicant, Igor Štemberger presented a proposal for an invitation to tender for the consultation referendum. He considered that the decision to involve the Republic of Slovenia in the NATO historical association was a decision, and therefore all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia should be asked directly about support for that decision or possible non-inclusion. He stressed that the applicants had decided to submit a proposal for an advisory referendum to be held before the possible invitation to NATO so that the citizens at the referendum could decide impartially or not to make a decision under the impression of the invitation received. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ignac Golob, presented the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, repeating the position expressed by the Government in its written opinion that in principle he did not oppose the referendum. However, the government's position on the timing of the referendum differs from that of the Group of Members. He warned that the citizens had nothing to be determined before receiving the invitation at the referendum. At the same time, the invitation does not yet mean membership in the NATO Union. He added that, following the invitation received, the negotiations of the Republic of Slovenia into the Union would then follow on the manner in which the Republic of Slovenia entered and the conditions of its membership. Therefore, as he said, it would be a good time to hold a referendum not only after the invitation received but after the negotiation process has ended. The president of the committee read part of President Kučan's magnetogram of the interview in Studio at 17 where he presented his position on the proposal for an advisory referendum. The President of the State drew attention to the fact that so far only two countries had held a referendum on their membership in the NATO Union, both of which had been formally invited. He stressed that only after the decision on the enlargement of the NATO Union, which is not yet in place, would it make sense to think and decide on the deadline for the referendum. Until then, according to the President of the State, every effort should be made to meet the required criteria for inclusion in the NATO Union. The chairman of the committee then highlighted and also presented a joint statement on support for Slovenian integration into the NATO Union, signed in 1997 by all parliamentary parties, including the Slovenian National Party, which later withdrew its signature, which defines the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to NATO as one of its foreign political priorities. In particular, he pointed out that the Young Slovenia Party, from which the Group of Members proposed the call for an advisory referendum, had not yet presented its position on the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to NATO. He said that the Young Slovenia party did not have any position until the entry into the NATO Inse Federation and did not want to define it. He considered that the Group of Members had proposed a call for an advisory referendum in order to advise citizens on what position the Young Slovenia Party should take to that issue, with a view to transferring its responsibility for that decision to all citizens. In addition, he added that the topic mentioned for the Youth Party is too demanding and that we have not been used to such transfer in the Slovenian political field so far. This type of work has been described as unfair, completely irresponsible and unacceptable to Slovenian political space. However, he invited the representatives of the applicants to explain the position of the Young Slovenia Party towards the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to NATO. The members of the Committee agreed with the chairman of the Committee and reiterated the invitation to the proposer to clarify the position of the Youth Party on the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to NATO. They highlighted the fact that the National Assembly had adopted various documents in this mandate that had testified to the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to NATO as its foreign policy priority, but the Young Slovenia Party had never expressed a negative attitude towards that membership when they were adopted in the National Assembly, but had even supported them in the vote, and therefore they considered such works of the Youth stand to be unrealistic and irresponsible. They considered that the proposal of the Young Slovenia Party could be understood as an assessment of the non-significance of all other parliamentary parties that supported the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the Union by signing a joint declaration in 1997. They further agreed that the referendum should be carried out, but only after receiving an invitation, since only then will all aspects of Slovenian membership regarding NATO be known, and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia should also be informed before deciding at the referendum. They also pointed out that NATO has not yet decided which countries will be invited to its membership in Prague in November this year, so any referendum result, also a positive one known before the invitation, would be detrimental to Slovenia rather than beneficial. In doing so, they expressed their conviction that those who advocate the holding of the referendum before the invitation are aware of the risks mentioned, and that they will also have to assume all the responsibility for possible non-invitation in Prague for all that the Republic of Slovenia has done in accordance with the documents adopted in the National Assembly so far, and have specifically highlighted the resolution in the National Security Strategy and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, they pointed out the danger that the implementation of the proposed referendum could also have a negative impact on the process of Slovenian integration into the EU. Only Aurelio Juri expressed his support for the proposals for an invitation to hold an advisory referendum. He felt that such a referendum would be useful, since this would indicate the mood of the Slovenian public on the issue of the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. He added that the implementation of the proposed referendum would shorten the time of controversy, polarisation, tension and reference to the position of the Slovenian public. Igor Štemberger's position on the Youth Party's membership of the Republic of Slovenia regarding then did not explain, but answered with the question whether Slovenia really needs such a high level of safety at the moment, whether someone really threatens it, whether it really needs aircraft carriers, submarines and maybe even missiles with nuclear spikes. In this regard, he added that the Young Slovenia Party did not receive an answer to the above-mentioned questions, so it did not comment on its position on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. After the discussion, the members of the Committee voted on the following proposal for a decision: the Committee supports the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the NATO Union, held no later than the last Sunday of October 2002, namely before the November summit session of NATO in Prague, and invites the State Assembly to adopt it. The members of the committee did not take the decision, as only one member voted in favour and fourteen members opposed the decision. On the basis of that committee, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal by the Group of Members to call for an advisory referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the Union should not then be accepted. However, the members of the Committee unanimously adopted the following additional decision: the Committee invites the President of the National Assembly to attend the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will consider the proposal for a consultative referendum on the involvement of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO, to invite the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Mr Milan Kučan, to address the National Assembly on this agenda item. This Decision has also been fully implemented. Then, at its 25th extraordinary meeting, held on 21 May, the Committee of the State Foreign Policy Assembly considered as a working mother the information on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO, which was adopted by the Government at its 144th written meeting and sent to the National Assembly under Rule 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as additional material for the consideration of the proposal for a consultative referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO, which was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members with initial signature, Petr Levič. 25. An extraordinary meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy was held together with the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence, which met at the third extraordinary meeting. The Committee on Foreign Policy was informed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the integration of Slovenia into NATO, 21.5. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and representatives of the Ministry of Defence attended the Joint Committees. In the introduction, Mr Samuel Žbogar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, presented the information of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. He discussed the process of implementing the third cycle of the annual national programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of the NATO Action Plan, the North Atlantic Council meeting on 14 May in Reykjavik, on defence, reform and preparations for integration in NATO, on public support for NATO membership, on the consultation referendum, on participation in the Vilnius Group, on the visit of the Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovska in the United States, and in particular on the need for accelerated cooperation in connection with the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into full membership in NATO. He stressed that, in doing so, the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had some priorities, such as confirming support to the Member States, and working with the candidates for membership in NATO within the framework of the Vilnius Group, speeding up reforms in the Slovenian Army and the Ministry of Defence, including providing adequate material and financial resources, confirming the activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the greatest possible social consensus or support for the inclusion of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO and adopting appropriate legislation that would enable the coordinated functioning of defence structures in the Republic of Slovenia. The chairman of the committee said in the introduction that the government had explicitly written in the information mentioned that the National Assembly was a decisive factor in Slovenian foreign policy and that it should reaffirm the activities and direction of the Government in connection with the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. He also highlighted the importance of the decisions taken at the meeting of the North Atlantic Council on 14 May in Reykjavik, in particular the agreement on cooperation between NATO and the Russian Federation and the importance of the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the Vilnius Group in the process of joining NATO. Finally, he took the government's opinion on the referendum, which said that the referendum was meaningful only after receiving the invitation to join NATO. Following the opening presentation of the Secretary of State, a discussion was held between representatives of the two Committees. The members of the two committees pointed out in the debate that the cost of joining the Republic of Slovenia Then the public was still not sufficiently represented; that the increase in gross domestic product for defence could increase inflation; that the government's Natopis was questionable; they discussed the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the Vilnius Group, the new relations and positive developments following the agreement on the cooperation of the Natoz Russian Federation in Reykjavik; they mentioned that the implementation of the referendum was appropriate after receiving an invitation to join NATO; they pointed out the need for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take a more analytical approach and also presented arguments that might oppose the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. They highlighted the information that the US did not require the Republic of Slovenia to hold a referendum before receiving the invitation to join NATO; they discussed the public presentation of the views on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to NATO and found that this was a matter for a presentation of opinions and not for a debate on entry, which some have mistakenly commented. Aurelio Juri noted that the Government's material is well prepared and that it will support the information decision, but because it no longer participates in the project to support the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO, he will not support the conclusions relating to the government's activities in joining NATO. At the end of the discussion, the Secretary of State further explained the visit of Prime Minister Janez Drnovsk to the United States and stressed that the Prime Minister had, inter alia, participated in the general debate at the special session of the General Assembly on children, that his presence at the said meeting was important because the Republic of Slovenia had set up a centre to help traumatised children in the former Yugoslavia, that he had participated in the discovery of French Prešern's plastics at Columbia University in New York, that he had met with the President of the United States in Washington and had many discussions with senators on the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and South-Eastern Europe, economic opportunities and achievements of the Republic of Slovenia. He also had an interview on CNN. The Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly to consider the materials submitted and adopt the following decisions, which are identical to those of the Defence Committee: The National Assembly took note of the information provided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the involvement of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO. The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to accelerate activities related to the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO, paying particular attention to relevant and reasoned public information. The National Assembly invites the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt conclusions on the tasks and activities of the State authorities for the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the NATO Union and the National Assembly. He discussed this and thus decided on and decided on the Foreign Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you, chairman of the committee, colleague Kacin for the report. He did it so meticulously that he couldn't have done it any more. I'm asking if he wants the word "secretariat." [[He doesn't want to.]] On this point yesterday, you also received information about the involvement of the Republic of Slovenia in the NATO liaison sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I invite the Prime Minister Drnovska to address the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u106	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. Will the invitation to join the relationship then come or not? The answer following recent activities, even after the ministerial meeting of NATO in Reykjevik and even after my visit to the United States, is not yet complete. However, it is a realistic assessment that there are considerable opportunities for such an invitation to take place. At this point in time, however, neither NATO nor the United States of America want to formally designate which candidate countries will be invited to the Alliance at the Prague Summit of November this year. They continue to stress the fundamental principles and also the expectations that candidates meet certain criteria, that they are adequately prepared, that they are, of course, democratic, stable countries, and that they accept the objectives and values of the other members of the NATO or Western Union, or as the Transatlantic Alliance calls them. Second question: Do NATO, or more specifically, the United States of America, expect us to hold a referendum or referendum before inviting us to a powdery summit? The answer is no. No one raised the question of the referendum. It is our internal decision whether to make it or when to make it. No one in the Alliance gave any opinion on this in the formal interviews. So this is our decision. We ourselves need to decide, taking into account, all the facts and also the actual needs of whether a referendum is necessary and if necessary, whether it is necessary before the powder summit. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as my opinion, is that before the referendum is invited, there is no point in organising that we do not have enough elements to decide on. Only when the invitation is known will we have all the facts on the table, and then I think we will make the right decision. Before that, I see no reason, especially because in Slovenia we are relatively late starting a debate on joining NATO. The reasons for this are well known. We've talked about this before. I also reexamined our Western and American counterparts. In Slovenia we expected an invitation or were very close to such an invitation five years ago before the NATO Summit in Madrid. At that time, public support was relatively high. There was no invitation at the time, because NATO decided to expand for its reasons, I think that, above all, geopolitical reasons, the activity in Slovenia has fallen on this issue, which is understandable and understood by every interlocutor, every Western interlocutor. On the one hand, a certain disappointment, because expectations have not been met, on the other hand, also understandably reduces the government's activity and political parties in this regard, because there was considerable uncertainty as to when the invitation would come and whether it would come at all. We didn't think it was the most meaningful thing to do an intense campaign about something that we don't know if it's going to happen. It is only in recent months that the reality of the invitation becomes much greater. That is why we are also intensifying our debate. We put the reasons for and against on the table. Unlike some other candidates, Slovenia also looks at membership or any questions related to membership. In the 1990s, too, we viewed the European Union for a long time after independence and also the NATO link as something to go to if we want to become a democratic state, so that it will be clear that we are no longer in the Balkans, that we are no longer in the previous system. In short, a lot of people thought of it as an inertia, as a confirmation, but now we're a Western country, or we're close to them, we're not where we were anymore. Over the past ten years, the situation has changed. We have received, I think, a lot of confidence, we are a democratic country, including a stable country, relatively economically successful, and we no longer need such formal confirmation. That is why we are looking at the European Union today, and also the relationship then, of course, by the content of what it actually means, what it actually brings, what are the obligations, what are the responsibilities, what Slovenia actually acquires by doing so. That is why this debate, which we have now begun, is useful, necessary and also at the right time. I think that in the coming months before and even after the powder summit, we will carry it out to the end, and we will also make a very responsible and serious decision. The second question in this regard, or my answer to this question sometimes included relatively low public support in Slovenia compared to other candidates, in addition to explaining the situation after the Madrid Summit, some comparison with the United States itself. In the United States of America, there is a strong phenomenon of isolationism, of some notions, of the belief that the United States of America does not need allies, especially those that, if I say so, are "cagavi" and do not have much to do with them. Especially not such allies, who would only expect something, but are not prepared to offer or accept some responsibility for world security and stability. Many in the United States feel that the United States alone is strong enough to solve their problems and problems in this world. Against such views, there is a considerable part of those, I think, that the more globally viewed part of American politics, which is convinced that it is necessary to continue to strengthen the Euro-Atlantic alliance, to cooperate with Europe, and also with Russia, which has now been highlighted; that the United States of America cannot and cannot afford some isolationism, because it would sooner or later strike back and cause additional problems, as it does the whole world. It turned out in the previous century, in the midst of both world wars, that despite the United States' initial belief that they could maintain neutrality or that they were not involved in European or other conflicts, that in the end the US intervention had to occur three times, for the third time in the Balkans, in our vicinity, so that it had to come to an American intervention in order to settle the situation and that then both Europe and the world became more stable again. In Slovenia, it seems to me that our isolationism is also some kind of isolationism, but in the opposite direction. Of course, it does not come out of the belief that we can regulate the world situation ourselves and take care of our own security, nor of our own, we are not sure of it, absolutely sure, given our size, but more of it, if you do, Slovenia can somehow slip away or somehow avoid all the world's dangers, all the problems and there can be an oasis of peace where no tourist, a terrorist, is no longer a threat to war or any other threat. I am joining those who would otherwise like it to be so that there is no longer any danger for Slovenia, but I must be so realistic and say that such an illusion would be beautiful, but it is not real and would be too misleading. The Council has proved on numerous occasions that wars are not over, that conflicts are not over, and that whenever it has seemed in a certain period, it is as if it is a history, that it is a past that cannot be repeated again. If we remember our experience, what we've experienced. After World War II, after all the horrors of World War II, it also seemed in our previous country that this could never happen again. And it happened. Right in that common country of ours. And in even worse form. Even though it seemed impossible and unimaginable before. That is why I think that playing to never again endangers us, that it can be very dangerous, that it is a risky lottery, which, despite everything as a responsible politician and as a well-responsible Prime Minister, I cannot possibly support. The country, every country, a country such as Slovenia, is in a dilemma, right before this question: Is it necessary to provide security and to build some security, some defence against possible threats and attacks, or is it not? The second option, no, means that we're just playing at the fact that nothing will ever happen in the future. If we say that this second possibility that nothing will ever happen is unrealistic, then the first question is real. Nevertheless, we must have a defense, but we must assume that, even if not tomorrow or perhaps in ten years or after twenty or at any time, there can be another threat. If we are so realistic, and because of human history and experience, we must be so realistic, then we must ask ourselves again: Can we build such a defense ourselves or better if we build it together with others, with related countries, in an alliance? To build it on our own, it would cost us, I'm sure, a lot more than we'd cost an alliance to NATO. Here we come to this part, to this question, how much of the expenditure on defence in a social product. We can have smaller expenditure in a social product, but at the same time we know that we do not actually guarantee our own safety, that we are only seemingly ensuring our safety, so much so that we have some defence, although of course not such as to effectively protect us from various dangers. This is a cheaper version, but it won't be enough. If we wanted to be at least about serious, then we should invest more than two percent of the social product in this than in NATO membership. When the Prime Minister of Sweden visited recently, he admitted to giving 3 and a half percent of the social product for defence. So much is their neutrality, because they wanted at least roughly to ensure their safety, because they didn't want to risk, if I say so, having an incomplete, insufficient defence. Even more of them were in previous periods, and they have now reduced this share slightly. And he's still very tall compared to us. And he said honestly when I told him about our dilemmas, what he would have done in our place. He did; he would have thought that he would have decided to contact NATO, given our geopolitical situation, including his historical experience, in short, according to our circumstances and according to our size, of course. I'm thinking the same thing myself. Unfortunately, the world is still too dangerous, there are too many conflicts, dangers, threats that the country can decide if, from here on out, we will live in peace and we will have such a policy ourselves and no one will threaten us. It is true that some countries have - some have already cited such cases in the debates. For example, Austria - a lower share of the social product for defence. But no one thinks this expenditure is enough. This is due to their specific situation under the Austrian State Treaty, but there are also different discussions in these countries. The estimates are that, even in countries like Finland and probably Sweden later, the discussion on NATO will be increasingly topical, gold because the alliance is now taking on a new form. This is no longer an inertia from the Cold War, it is no longer an alliance directed against the Soviet Union, against the Warsaw Pact, now Russia is approaching and becoming almost an equal member of NATO. So it's something new. It is an obvious link between developed countries, democratic countries, in order to ensure greater stability and security in the world, but there is still a defence alliance between these countries that accept the obligation to protect each other in order to protect each other in the event that one country is attacked under Article 5 of the Alliance Treaty. This is, of course, an obligation for each country and, on the other hand, a fundamental right and also a fundamental guarantee, a guarantee of security. At this point, it is understandable to expect, for example, the United States of America, that they have reliable allies and that they will invite those who want to do so and that they do not actually intend to ask anyone, nor do they need them. If we are completely realistic, the United States does not need Slovenia in NATO or some other countries, because our contribution to the U.S. defence will be relatively small, while the US contribution to our defence can, of course, be decisive or more decisive. To be perfectly honest, we are in times of crisis, of self-reliance, of sometimes the Yugoslav crisis when we felt threatened. All the time, at least subconsciously or more outspokenly, they are counting on the West to protect us so that the United States can help us. We've been kind of counting on it all along. And in fact, the United States intervened in the Balkans and stopped the war when Europe was unable to do so. And the alliance has proved to be effective and to ensure our safety. Because of that intervention, we feel safer in Slovenia today, and therefore we have a feeling that we are so safe that we do not need anyone to have a relationship with NATO. This relationship, NATO, has also provided us with security through its interventions in the previous decade in the Balkans. NATO's forces are still in the Balkans, and that is why our security is greater today than it would have been without this presence. We already have historical reasons for joining NATO, we have already been recipients of NATO's security. I am confident that in the coming months, we will also provide greater and sufficient public support for this decision in a more intensive debate, when we will also explain to our citizens the reasons for joining NATO. I am convinced that today, if we decided to hold a referendum today, we would make it clear what an important and long-term strategic decision this is. I'm sure it will be that way in a few months or a year, whenever that happens. However, I must say that, of course, the fundamental decision is in the hands of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall have the mandate of citizens, voters, to make such decisions and to take such decisions. That's a fact. Finally, if I reiterate the Government's views on the referendum, it is as it has already been said. The government thinks that before Prague, before the Prague summit a referendum is by no means necessary, that we do not yet have enough elements to wait for the summit in Prague. The experience with the Madrid summit itself clearly shows that in fact 100% of certainty is not. Before that, it would be completely pointless to make this decision without all the elements being known. After all, the concept of NATO’s relationship is being developed definitively, now in recent months it has gained further dynamism, both on the one hand with Russia and on the issue of alliance on the other hand, and also on the admission of new members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Presentations of the positions of the groups are now under way. I would like to inform you that I have received the following applications for the presentation of positions: my colleague Marsič will move the position of the LDS Group of Members, my colleague Ptrč of the ZLS Group of Members, my colleague Mr Podobnik of the SLS Group of Members, my colleague Mr Jelinčič of the SNS Group and my colleague Janš of the SDS Group of Members. We also have a lot of applications to present the positions of individual colleagues. I would therefore like to invite the leaders of the parliamentary groups, if they can consult with their colleagues, whether at 6 p.m. they would be willing to support the procedural proposal that we conclude this item today and not bring the debate to tomorrow or the next day. Mr Pohorec also applied for the Desus Group of Members. We are now going to the presentation of the parliamentary groups. You have the floor to present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear President of the State Mr Kučan, distinguished Prime Minister Dr Drnovšek, distinguished Minister, esteemed colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the LDS Group on the proposal for a consultative referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. Public support for Slovenia's entry into NATO has been poor lately, certainly not the way we want it. Perhaps it is because we have experienced one rejection in recent years and, on the other hand, the belief of all that this support will not collapse. Above all, in the last year, it has become wider, we believe, a legitimate debate just before the new invitation. Our citizens and the public raise subtle but specific questions relating mainly to the costs of entry and reform of the defence system, the obligation to participate in operations outside the country and the involvement of our soldiers in the context of the relationship, the issue of the actual threat to Slovenia, the principles of intra-connection decision-making, the choice between NATO and the common European security and defence policy within the European Union. In the turbulent public financial times in which our country is located, of course, the voice of those who are more, say, in the notes, "for butter than for rifles", in particular their arguments sometimes used in the form of pompous, inaccurate and misleading data, but sometimes with arguments that do not have any links with national security issues, significant and concrete data regarding our integration often fall to nothing. In addition to the Prime Minister, the President of the State, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and certain Members and Members of Parliament, it is likely that a more specific Ministry of Economy will be included in the future debate, which could provide data on the economic effects of entry, by comparing the situation of foreign investments and the economic growth of new members of NATO - the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary before and after entering into a relationship, the Ministry of Finance with accurate data and costing, the Ministry of Internal Affairs by presenting the effects of cooperation with intelligence services and the suppression of international terrorism and crime, as well as the Ministry of Education and Science on the possibility of cooperation, exchange of experience and knowledge of scientists and experts in the framework of liaison forums not only on the defence sphere. The Ministry of Health will also have time to participate in the debate, which could help inform what the link offers in the field of disaster medicine development, also useful in the event of major disasters. The Directorate for Protection and Rescue, which could provide information on what NATO has to offer in the area of civil defence, civil protection and coordination of humanitarian assistance in cooperation with the United Nations Organization, can also be involved. Here are examples of NATO's cooperation with its capabilities in the refugee crisis in Kosovo, Albania, Macedonia, floods in Ukraine, earthquakes in Turkey, Greece, fires in Croatia. All too much is a public view that only one Member State takes part in the enlargement of NATO in order to spread its own political and economic influence in NATO and, above all, in the new Member States. What about the other Member States, the European Member States of NATO? Are they just vegetating and waiting for the final decision of one country? On the contrary. Governments and, in particular, parliamentarians of all NATO Member States support further enlargement. It is therefore sufficient for the highest representatives of the countries to invite the new members on the basis of a unanimous agreement and this is expected in Prague. This strong enlargement, support is also felt in Vilnius, Ottawa and the draft Sofia statement by the Member States of NATO. Everyone agrees that in the absence of direct threats, NATO has an expansion of a dominant political motive, based on a projection of security and stability throughout the Euro-Atlantic region. It can then act as a forum for democracy and a coordinator of military and security activities. With the shared interest of countries to invite us, if we are ready and able to contribute to common security, we would feel like a referendum before inviting a punch in the face to these countries because they themselves do not intend to decide on the Slovenian entry into their own referendums. This would be a precedent in the history of the enlargement of the alliance, which would certainly mark us. That the passionate opposition and the dilemmas of entering reflect more the desire to fill the gap in the opinion space and the response to daily policy than consistent political decisions, the following fact also shows. We have adopted a resolution on a national security strategy, without a vote against it. Of the 49 present were 47 for and 2 for which no vote was taken. From the Party of Young Slovenia, the proposer of this referendum, which has so far claimed that there is no position on NATO, 1 voted in favour, 1 held meetings and 2 were absent. It is already stated in the introduction of the resolution that the Republic of Slovenia wishes to ensure its fundamental security interest also within the framework of its membership in the European Union and NATO. Furthermore, among the fundamental values provided by the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia, there is also a secure situation in the international community, which the Republic of Slovenia intends to provide with membership in NATO. The exercise of this national interest requires the Republic of Slovenia to actively and comprehensively prepare for the takeover of allied tasks by means of the Membership Action Plan and the Partnership for Peace. By building its own armed forces and by appropriate foreign policy decisions, the Republic of Slovenia is strengthening its position as a future member of NATO. The active role and participation of the Republic of Slovenia and NATO in efforts to eliminate crisis hotspots in South-Eastern Europe is particularly important. As a member of NATO and the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia will strengthen its own scientific and technological development and connect it and strengthen it with cooperation with partner countries. If someone in the National Assembly has changed his mind, then he has every opportunity to propose an initiative to amend the basic document of national security, which we have adopted with full consciousness in this mandate. The decision on the referendum is, of course, an absolute internal matter of the Republic of Slovenia and its citizens. There is no need to lose words about any pressure from this country or any country on when and how to carry out the referendum. However, the fact that any referendum outcome before expectations is invited, even with a positive result, harms Member States in deciding on our entry. Those who advocate a referendum before the meeting in Prague, and these are, above all, representatives of entry, are aware of this and therefore insist on it. For these reasons, the LDS Group will not support the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the inclusion of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO. In our Group of Members, we are committed to holding a possible referendum following an invitation in Prague and before negotiations on accession protocols begin. In the meantime, there is sufficient time for further in-depth debate to take place, and above all, it calms the passion for our citizens to be able to make decisions on the basis of facts, not emotions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Comrade Marshich. The following position, the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, will be presented by colleague Miran Potrč, after which I will give the floor to my colleague Podobnik. Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u110	Mr Milan Kučan, distinguished Prime Minister, Ministers, President and colleagues! The United List of Social Democrats supports the definition that the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the Union must then be defined by citizens and citizens at the referendum, but at a referendum of binding nature. In a referendum whose decision must also be formally respected later by all authorities in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the majority of Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats do not support the proposal of the four Members of the Party of Young Slovenia to sign a consultation referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. The consultative referendum has only a consultative character by law, if I simplify it, is only an official public opinion poll in which all citizens and citizens of Slovenia can participate in an organised manner. Proponents and opponents of the inclusion of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO are the only ones that are one of the most important strategic decisions with long-term implications. If so, we should agree that strategic and long-term decisions cannot and cannot be taken without comprehensive careful preparation, decision-making procedures, substantive aspects and the consequences of the decision. The United List of Social Democrats estimates that this is not the case today. In part, there is also an official policy that has not paid special attention to this issue until recently; it may have hoped quietly that a referendum will not be needed, or that citizens and citizens will be persuaded to make voluntary statements about NATO. However, when NATO’s opponents became louder, instead of explaining the reasons for joining NATO, she began to react nervously, even negatively, to assess such views and even to suspect that they might even stand up. However, regardless of the reasons why this is the case, it is undeniable that the necessary conditions have not yet been created for citizens and citizens to make responsible decisions. For us in the United List of Social Democrats, however, decision-making at the referendum is a serious and responsible institution of direct democracy. The irresponsible use of this institute is not a contribution to democracy. On such an important and strategic issue, such behaviour would not only be irresponsible, it could even be detrimental to the country, its international position and reputation and its future development, and thus to all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Those who want responsible decision-making must also prepare it responsibly. And finally, but certainly not at all important. At its congress in Cyprus, the United List of Social Democrats decided to support Slovenia's involvement in NATO. This decision was also confirmed at the last conference in Otokec. Following the majority belief in the United List of Social Democrats, the referendum should therefore decide to join NATO on the basis of a prepared decision on the invitation to membership, on the basis of an international treaty, when all the conditions, benefits and obligations of our inclusion in NATO will be clearly known. The United List of Social Democrats will also be responsible and involved in this and such activity. For such activity there is a large majority of political parties. On the other hand, it also identifies the public's attitude, which also changes according to our collective engagement. Therefore, we do not need this moment of referendum to continue our activities in the country unless the applicants might want a result that would encourage the state authorities and most Slovenian politicians to continue their cooperation with NATO or that would like to send a political message to Nate not to invite us. While such a decision is possible, it must not be covered by a principled position on the necessity of decision-making between citizens and citizens. It should be clearly communicated to all of us in order to know what we are deciding on and with what responsibility. We therefore believe in the United List of Social Democrats that all serious, objective reasons speak against the support proposed but poorly prepared previous legislative referendum. We believe, however, that the proposal that we are deciding today, as well as other debates on Slovenia's integration into NATO, requires a clear programme, an objective presentation of all issues and dilemmas, all effects and consequences, patient reasoning, not a nervous opposition to questions and concerns. This programme must also clearly and unequivocally include preparations for the referendum, the timing of its implementation and the undeniable decision for it. Responsible policy must no longer allow itself to be unprepared for any proposals, even for the sake of party promotion or for the purpose of pre-election internal political interests. The Slovenian political scene and the time during which these debates are taking place do not exclude such actions and require responsible preparation for them. Let me finish. Most Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats are not going to support the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. However, the Government expects a clear public awareness programme on all aspects of Slovenia's membership in NATO, a clear definition for the referendum on the inclusion of Slovenia in NATO, and a clear definition of when and under what procedure and under what conditions this referendum will take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by colleague Janez Podobnik. I give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable President of the State, ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! Today's agenda item is a broad point, it has multiple dimensions. The main issue is the attitude of Members and Members to the proposal for a preliminary consultation referendum. At the same time, in view of the intensification of respected editorials, the opportunity or challenge for Slovenian policy to be defined by NATO is once again. And in our opinion there is another dimension that has been deliberately or reluctantly present in all the performances: What is the responsibility of Slovenian policy on this issue? It's a principled position first. The Slovenian People's Party remains committed to decisions already taken by this National Assembly. For example, in its decision of 97 when it addressed Slovenia's integration into full membership in relation to NATO, it adopted a decision which reads: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with its previous views, in particular the conclusions of the National Assembly of 11 April 1996 and the joint statement of the parliamentary parties in support of Slovenia's integration into NATO of 17 April 1997, reaffirms that NATO's priority and strategic objective of the Republic of Slovenia. It's all said and done. Our client stands in this position. Much has already been said about the question of the previous consultation referendum. Arguments were made. In the parliamentary group, we follow the proposal of the Committee, the Prime Minister, to the government that the only reasonable time for a referendum is after the invitation. At the same time, we are open and would like to draw attention to the importance of today's debate, which Slovenian television broadcasts to all Slovenes and Slovenes of our citizens and citizens. This debate should open this issue to open the dialogue. We will most likely have a paradox, one of the key paradoxes of Slovenian politics. In all credible research, almost half of them say they're not for NATO, and in the National Assembly, almost everyone says they're for NATO. The credibility of politics is reflected in the fact that the National Assembly is the hub of people's desires and expectations. Will we today hear the bad half of the voices that say they have doubts? I am also convinced and the Group of Members that this debate is also an opportunity to do so in a way that all issues are openly discussed and, of course, all possible concerns are argued. When we were preparing for this debate, we also asked the research sector and asked them to tell us in the National Assembly what information is there about the NATO referendum in the two European countries where they did so. The research sector responded graciously and gave us data for Spain and Hungary. Hungary first, short chronology: invited to the opening of the accession talks on 8.7.1997, the referendum took place on 16.11.1997. The question was, "Do you agree that Hungary should ensure its security by joining NATO?" The referendum had this result: 85.4 for, 14.6 against. Then Parliament 9.2.1999, this is their national assembly, with a large majority of support for NATO involvement, was adopted on 12.3.1999. So, in Hungary, he was performed before he entered NATO. The referendum was called for by Parliament. He referred to a promise from the past when Parliament rejected the referendum requested by NATO's opponents, the so-called "antinato group". The referendum was something special, that is, no parliamentary party objected to NATO membership and this topic received little media attention. In fact, the referendum tasted like plebiscite. The previous refusal of Parliament to call for a referendum in 1995 at the initiative of the groups that opposed the entry into NATO had the inevitable effect of convening a referendum at a time when most voters thought that the issue had already been decided. However, Parliament has been hesitant for a long time before agreeing that the referendum is binding, apparently because of fear of a negative outcome. So this is the case in Hungary. And now the case of Spain. In October 1981, the Parliament endorsed the proposal to join Spain in NATO. Spain was admitted to NATO in May 1982. 12.3.1986, after four years, the Prime Minister organised a referendum where voters supported further Spanish membership in relation to, without participation in the military composition. Results of the referendum: 52.2 for, 39.8 against. In Spain, therefore, the referendum was held after Spain had already been a member of NATO. Examples can only partially help with some of our dilemmas. In the parliamentary group, we assess, again, as I have already said, that the Committee's reflection, the government was correct and we therefore support the decision to ask our citizens and citizens about Slovenia's membership in NATO after the invitation. In the Group of Members, we believe that there is little emphasis on economic interest in arguments for or against arguments. We are very sensitive to some other dilemmas, perhaps even fears, but we are convinced that, with well-prepared responses from the competent authorities, especially the economic and defence departments, we could successfully argue in the opposite direction. We are convinced that the Slovenian government still has a lot of reserves to implement one of the basic economic concepts, if we can say so, which is partly true among NATO members, and this concept is anti-winning. This is a concept that would be good both for the Slovenian economy and for Slovenian taxpayers. In the field of information technology industry, we see in the parliamentary group the possible area that would actively support Slovenia's entry into NATO. Slovenian companies, many of them, are at global level in the field of information technology. If they become more actively involved, because of their economic interest, we are confident that this will also be addressed by young people who will take these arguments very seriously. If, in recent times, the Slovenian population has been a rhetoric that sometimes recalls that it is militarism, and this rhetoric has been accompanied by the media aspect of American-Allied activities in the war against terrorism and is less attractive, it must be acknowledged that this is also part of the world reality. And this is the reality that strengthens us in the belief that for countries like Slovenia, we need to be part of the integration of the developed world and not a lonely island outside them. The implementation of Slovenian national and political interests has so far been much more effective, with our work within or when we are on our way to these integrations. Slovenia's contribution is increasingly visible and respected, both in the field of South-Eastern Europe and ultimately in the dialogue between Russia and Western integration. At this point, we would point out that the first contacts at the summit between Slovenia and Russia were also set at the parliamentary level, where we exchanged our views on NATO openly and completely without hair in our language. Because Slovenia represented a point where Russia did not express any explicit opposition to NATO enlargement. Which in some ways led to the first summit between the President of the United States and Russia right in Slovenia. In fact, the results of the warming of relations between Russia and NATO lead exactly in the political direction that Slovenia also advocates, to the weakening of the contradictions between large and closer European cooperation. Partly earlier in his performance, the Prime Minister spoke about the holding of isolationism. We are convinced that isolationism has no rational argument if we look at the position of the Slovenian state on the global and European stage. The fact remains that both NATO and the EU are, but today we are talking about NATO, the most influential and powerful, both economic, political and defence integration. And we must recognise that in Slovenia's geographical position, it is difficult to imagine the successful development of Slovenia's country, economy and its integration into the European level of education and personal development of citizens if we do not join these larger European and global spaces. The question of supporting citizens to join NATO and our somewhat worrying view of the Slovenian public opinion, which we need to fully inspect, raises the question of what is the attitude of Slovenian voters and voters to the people they represent in Parliament, in the government, in the position of the President of the country, in all functions. We need to ask ourselves this question here and now. In the government's work for today's session, which is a brief summary of all activities and is quite appropriate, there was a slight setback at the end, which could be very unpleasant. Finally, it states that the National Assembly and the Government must perform some important tasks, and among these, it should also coordinate the performance of members of the National Assembly in the international community and in bilateral contacts, for the support and procedures necessary for the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO. At all meetings abroad, wherever I had the opportunity, I have always represented and argued and justified the need for Slovenia to enter NATO. But, colleagues and colleagues, the essence of the parliamentary system is to let Members think as they think it is right and as voters have given them a mandate. Members of the National Assembly may, wherever they are, be responsible, but fully autonomously represent positions, even when they perform around the world. We view this government opinion as a failure. The question was raised that it was important for politicians and parliamentary parties to be defined until Slovenia entered NATO. Dear colleagues, do you think this is a key issue? Do you think that the Slovenian electorate and electorate, citizen and citizen listen and have a crucial impact on them, as to what Parliamentary Party Presidents, Prime Minister, President of the State, Members feel about these issues? I guess not. What's wrong? This is, in our view, a key issue and a short-term issue between the people and politics. The odd thing is, as recently told me by a renowned Slovenian sociologist, that there might be an unusual situation, that if citizens and citizens decided on a referendum to enter NATO, whatever nature it was, let's say that the majority would vote against - I personally think that their disagreement with the functioning of the Slovenian government, government, parliament and all institutions would not play an important role in this decision. After 12 years, independent Slovenian countries are very disappointed by the functioning of the Slovenian state and its authorities at all levels. It is said that in this place it is necessary to rediscover the need for people to have the answers to the questions they have - the expression of the people I have deliberately - that we must answer all their concerns patiently, from day to day, from week to week, not self-indulgent, not arrogant, but open, dialogueal and above all respectful. And this is, in our view, a key way that, as we expect in our party this year, we will receive an invitation in Prague and then most likely after the first months of next year, when we will "negotiate" and agree to join NATO, we will also ask our citizens and citizens at the referendum and then also get a mandate to Slovenia enter NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. I now invite my colleague, Mr Jelinčič, to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. He'll get the word of his colleague Janš behind him. Please, Comrade Jelinčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First of all, a very nice greeting to Mr President of the Republic and to all other members of the government and to colleagues and colleagues! Today, in fact, we are discussing whether a referendum should be held, whether before joining NATO or before inviting to NATO or after an invitation to NATO. And yet the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken advantage of this moment to promote its own views. She did not answer any questions raised in the Slovenian public at the time of the promotion; she did not state in one word how many foreign forces we will have in Slovenia, nor did she say in one word which airports will be closed to civil or sports traffic, nor did she say in one word which roads Nate's forces will be able to use for their transitions from one end of Slovenia to another, or from one NATO country to another NATO country, or from NATO ice to southeastern Europe. Before the Time [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] A colleague or a colleague may [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u115	Peace in the hall! Comrade Jelinčič, you have the floor, but the others don't. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nothing was said about the costs, nothing was said about what Slovenia would benefit from NATO. Why not? Because it will not profit anything because it will lose, in addition to its independence, it will lose a whole range of Slovenian industrial plants, which we will have to take over American technology, American weapons, American transport assets, we will be able to shut down. As an example, the Slovenian government has purchased American "humvee" cars, for which the Norwegian government has found that they are completely inadequate for forest areas and are completely inadequate for driving through forest roads, which are much shorter than the American desert areas, and even after our journeys these vehicles cannot move properly, I would say, military mode. And the government successfully covered up the accident that happened on Zaplan when this famous vehicle collapsed, so to speak, so as not to talk about all the other mistakes that this vehicle has. A while ago, we restored a whole series of T-55 tanks and updated them. For each update we spent about a million marks, then a little more. The last report from the meeting in Brussels says that these thin ones are obsolete, inadequate, so-called old pattern, and that we will not have anything to do with them, only the side will be able to throw them away. This tank may come to some military museums here and there, but in those museums there are already tanks from Bulgaria, Romania and the Soviet Union, formerly. Next, the same report speaks of the Slovenian Air Force. We've got pillatus, like some sort of intermediate aircraft between propeller and reaction. These planes can also be used after this report only for the so-called "folklore flight" in Slovenia, so that the Slovenians will not forget that we were one of the pioneers of the aviation and will not give us another. The helicopters will try to scream at us, old Bell's helicopters, which they don't even manufacture in America, but are licensed by Canadian companies. And we're gonna buy these planes old. They may also impose on us some old F-16s in the same way as one of the Baltic States, which has already initialled an agreement between the Defence Minister of this country and the Defence Minister of Belgium. On the purchase of Belgian F-16s, they had to terminate this contract immediately because of a phone call from America and buy these planes or they would have to buy these planes from the Americans. In the same way everything will happen to us in Slovenia. Another example: civilian airport had to be updated in Tallinn. Five companies came forward, including one American company, and a French firm won the competition, and the American company was only four. Again, after a phone call from America, they had to cancel and accept the supplier from the United States of America, all in NATO's name, and all of that under threat, if you don't do so, we won't accept you to NATO. And if we take the problem that occurs in the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary, precisely because of the financial resources that NATO needs and requires, we can see that these are terrible costs. Both Czechs and Polish and Hungarians are disappointed in Nat. There is no greater security for them, for security today is something other than what NATO offers. The fact is that NATO or the United States of America themselves recognise that NATO is 70% of the economic organisation and only 30% of the military organisation. In other words, the United States of America imposes its technology through this organisation. A while ago, a few days ago, I attended one of the meetings of the Defence Committee of the Western European Union Assembly, where we also discussed this. Europe is not happy with Nate. Europe is aware of the threats posed by the United States under NATO to European industry, to European development and to European economic operators. As America terrorises literally European companies on behalf of NATO, it is evident when Americans, when Boeing used military spy satellites to spy on European civil aircraft manufacturers of Airbus to this extent, obtained such information that they then sold Boeings and not Airbuses to the Chinese. It's an abuse of military intelligence in the civilian field - and of course, no one's doing anything! That is why Europe is aware of this infidelity and does not give up. However, there is always and everywhere the possibility of finding countries that, mainly because of a certain political "super", would be very "fitting" to enter this organisation and occupy certain political positions within this organisation, so that these gentlemen would get their chairs, in their own words, and that in this way they would be, and that they would do everything to make their home country, of course, question whether they would take it as their own country to bring this country into the cover of some military union. Slovenia had already signed an agreement, after which we had allowed the NATO units Sfor, Ifor and a similar transition through Slovenian territory. These documents were identical to those signed by the countries that were at the time of the war. The identical document was signed by Bosnians, identical Macedonians and identical Croats, but Croatia was later signed by the Slovenians. This document states or states that these units crossing Slovenia do not have to pay any fees for the use of roads, railways, ports, airports. This document states that none of the members of these forces or units will be held accountable to a Slovenian judge for any action. This agreement states that these members of the units will not even be arrested by the Slovenian police, but will only be arrested by the security authorities of these forces. It's just a few reflections on this matter. And we signed it. And when we talk about isolationism, which the Slovenian government so likes to draw to plan, I would ask her what she will then say about Austria, which is not in NATO, and she does not intend to go to NATO. I do not think that Austria is any less safe because of this, that Austria has not lost its resources, even the opposite. Industrial resources have been preserved and have maintained a large part of the sovereignty that we will, if we enter - I hope that people will decide against - that we will actually lose these resources. We will lose a large part of our sovereignty, but some in Slovenian political circles do not have enough for sovereignty. If we remember a political party that, at the time of independence, was actually looking for as many white sheets as possible to sew them together so that they could wave before the Yugoslav People's Army. This very same party is now in charge of bringing Slovenia under NATO's wing. Does this not remind us of the time before we joined the Democratic Federal Yugoslavia and then the FLRJ and the SFRY? I don't see any significant difference here. And then I ask myself, gentlemen, why did we go on our own if we are now urgently looking for the master? And not just one, one in America and one in Brussels, just in case. That we will be subject to it and that if it happens, we will turn our backs on one so that we can bow to the other. And another country that is also suffering, in your opinion, because of isolationism, Ireland. Gentlemen, Ireland is the fastest developing country in Europe. And if we look ahead, Ireland, who doesn't and won't go to NATO, gets the biggest grant from the United States. And then we get to that healthy, peasant rink who says, "Whoever is a servant is a servant." You slap your kid, you tell him to clean your shoes, and then you send him back to the corner or the barn. And that's what the gentlemen are going to do with us, that's what they want to do with us. And most of Slovenia's political space agrees. We're not for this, and we don't want it, and as far as we're concerned, we're gonna do everything we can to keep this from happening. Talks about our Prime Minister's visits to the United States of America are nothing more than a deception to the public. Those few words he spoke to Mr Bush were mainly polite phrases on one side and on the other. Then, after a few minutes, Mr Bush was already late for other rooms, and even our President had to leave those rooms alone, although Mr Bush from those rooms is monitoring everyone who is admitted there. After all, from those rooms he escorted out even Oprah, who is not a politician, but only a media star. He didn't escort our Mr. Drnovsk. He was escorted by our diplomats, and they all looked sadly somewhere in the so-called bright future. When we talk about the power of the State to give it to NATO, I ask myself what power to judge in the event of questionable and conflict situations is given the Pact to both Greece and Turkey. When there was a conflict in Cyprus, then the Pact withdrew and left them to speak for themselves. And they're still talking today. If it were not for the United Nations, the United Nations forces, there would be an armed conflict of broader situations. And the United Nations is preventing a wider conflict there. And how this should go along with Article 5 of the NATO Charter of the Pact, which says that NATO must defend that country that is a member of the NATO Pact and that is being attacked by another country. In this case, a member of the NATO Pact attacked a member of the NATO Pact. Now what? On the other hand, the Pact, contrary to the Charter of the United Nations, attacks a sovereign state such as Yugoslavia. And if we're developing thesis ahead, we're wondering, even though I'm against attacking and then bombing Tel Aviv, we're actually wondering why they're not bombing Tel Aviv. The same logic, but different criteria. And if you think that then the pact for Slovenia will take the same criteria as for some of them, you're fucking wrong. Let me read you what countries they're supposed to take us with or invite us to the NATO Pact. Despite the fact that Mr Colin Powell was at the White House press conference about a month ago, he said that the defence concept of the Pact was changing and that, first of all, each country would have to take care of its own security and that it is now NATO's chapter, which is important, which speaks of the integration and integration of NATO and Russian tendencies for the same direction of action and action. Well, the countries with which we are compared are very interesting: Albania, Bulgaria, Estonia, Croatia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania and Slovakia. And if we rule out three Baltic countries that are sure to be supported by Scandinavian countries, we're left with a very strange, strange society. We were thrown into the same basket with the Albanians, and whoever was in Albania knows how it is. And they threw us into the same basket with the Bulgarians, and whoever was in Bulgaria knows what state this country is in. And they cast us into the same basket with the Romanians, and he that was in Romania knows the condition of this country. And we know the same about Macedonia. Croatia, too. They are pushing Slovenia into the same basket and actually lowering it, humiliating Slovenia in this way. Not only should we be taken as visitors here and there, but those Slovenians, and rarely can anyone come any further than the third deputy, the fourth secretary, the fifth vice-secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. Mr. Kacin, as you will come up, you will say yours. Of course, Mr. Kacin,
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u117	I don't allow it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u118	I always stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u119	I don't allow a debate from the bench. Comrade Jelinčič, please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Another issue is interesting when it comes to Europe on the one hand and Nate on the other. Again, Slovenian politics appears to be very imprudent or as some money-lending lady who doesn't know where to go, which door she would walk through, and then stays in the lobby. Europe is creating its defence forces, Europe has its defence and security policy outlined. And Europe has a common defence industry. A year and a half ago, I was a member of the European Defence Industry Coordination Committee. In addition to the two Englishmen, Italy and Greece, I was the only one from Slovenia in Slovenia and also from other countries, and I can say that none of the Slovenian government was interested in this at the time. It was not worth talking about either to the Foreign Minister or to the Minister of Defence or to the Minister of Interior or to anyone. Why? Because, in my opinion, they did not see any personal interest in this matter. Personal interests are determined by the chairs and certainly not by the "prosperity" of the Slovenian people. We can be sure that coming into NATO will mean a terrible financial blow for Slovenia. And given that inflation is rising from day to day, this blow will be even worse than anyone can think. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is working hard to show us what good it will bring us. It opens up so-called public debates, which are actually farce. Right here, in the National Assembly, except for today's promotional interpretation of my predecessors by the government, there was a public discussion about the NATO Pact, where it came together, I think that 25 government representatives who praised NATO for all the weights, of course without one single piece of data, and then came the first to be against Nat. Then they were again, I think two representatives of the government party, after the transfer was over. Then the government side left, all of Nate's supporters went out, and there were only a few people in there who actually listened to themselves. Very indicative attitude towards the Slovenian public and to its constituents. It seems that certain political parties, when they get in position, forget that they have been elected by voters and think they don't care what they're told, they actually think, because it doesn't matter what we're saying today and what we're doing, we're going to have to pull them out for the last three days, we're going to fuck them again, and they're going to vote for us again, and then they're going to be crying for four years, and they're going to forget it all again for the last three days. Next, the government uses various "natophones", "natonabrators" and "natopis". More than 650,000 copies in four colors of a printed propaganda paper that talked about how we would be waiting in Nat just fine, how we would drain honey and milk there. If we take a piece that this cost, including the distribution throughout Slovenia of 100 tolars, it is 65 million tolars. 65 million tolars would be much more meaningful to give to some social transfer or perhaps even give to those single mothers who had imprisoned her seven days ago because she was driving with a moped, I think through the red light, while the gentlemen of the government, Mr Schuster, will now be released, because some gentlemen who are still in the government are afraid to say something. Would it not be better if a few million of these were given to those single mothers for their children? We haven't actually learned anything about the costs yet. We know that every ministry has some kind of fund-raiser where there's a huge amount of money to advertise the NATO liaison. And if any of the Members ask him that question, they shall answer him nothing. Somehow they round and end up with no real answer. And the government is spending this cheerfully. At the Ministry of Defence, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, new people are employed at all ministries to prepare Slovenia for joining NATO. And that is why, on the one hand, it is possible to understand the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to prevent a preliminary consultation referendum on the entry into the NATO Pact, because it is afraid that people will vote against and then - what should this do? And the government thinks, we'll sort it out, we'll pull the Slovenes once more, if we have to, we'll cheat, but what the Americans will say, especially are afraid of our own. What the Americans will say. Of course, because if the Americans are offended, then Slovenia will not be invited. And if Slovenia does not invite, then what we will do will break the complex concept of the rule and rule of Mr Janez Drnovšk, his coalition parties and also non-committal supporters of joining NATO. And how strong this construction building of the government is, it also appears that this moment is not in the Chamber any of the representatives of the candidates to carry out the previous consultation referendum, and it seems that the government party has already reached its goal and that what we are afraid of will happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u121	Peace in the hall. No one has a word but Comrade Jelinčič. Please. Are you finished, Comrade Jelinčič?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u122	I'll have a little something else, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u123	All right, please finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u124	For joining NATO, the Slovenian government foresees a gradual rise in defence spending and professionalization of the military. The gradual rise in defence spending means that we will still maintain a military structure that corresponds to the 120 thousand heads of the territorial population and that we will also have - we will remove the recruits of course - we will still have a professional army that will run from one battlefield to another, and if she is lucky, we will not bring home any Slovenian boy in baptism, but if we are not lucky, the government will say, "Yes, dear Slovenes and Slovenes, because you have decided to do so, it is so that the victims must be". And on the altar of American history there is something to be given, and on the altar of American homeland, as some would say. I think that the matter is not so simple and I also hope that the Slovenian electoral body will tell the gentlemen who care little about Slovenia and the "prosperity" of their own country to show them what its opinion is. It is true, however, that any dangerous procedure is being avoided in every way. Any chance that anyone could have realized that Slovenians are not 100% slaves, but that we also have people thinking with their heads and not just jumping on their heads into a pool that we don't even know if there's water in it. And there has to be a previous consultation referendum. If we remember the times when Slovenia was lonely, if I am not mistaken, honourable gentlemen, and I am not mistaken, we first held a referendum, decided on Slovenia's independence and then gained independence. Today you prohibit or try to prohibit the same people of Slovenia. There are exactly double criteria, you appear to be interested in nothing but your own position and your own well-being, and therefore you are willing to tailor even the laws, you are willing to do what suits you, the judges are either divided or on LDS and SDS and then whoever you get, those "burns" or let go, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, it is more sad every day in Slovenia and it is more difficult to live from day to day. And now, with the entry into NATO, you intend to pick up the Slovenes and the Slovenes with some of the tolars they have left, and what they've been "scrambled". It's beautiful, it's really beautiful, and you're not ashamed. I wish you were ashamed! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If it's not the other way around, we're gonna lock him up, because he's got another couple of open cases in court, and we're gonna make another set-up, and we're gonna grab him. That's great. That's really nice. On the other hand, when you're full of words about safety, they trade radioactive materials in front of you, and of course you don't do anything. After all, did you wonder if maybe Nato wanted you, a respected society? Does he even want you? When you're such security specialists that they carry one of the most dangerous terrorist ingredients in your face, our intelligence service is nothing. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia says he knows nothing about this. The only one who responded to this issue was the President of the Republic, Mr Kučan, who reacted immediately, and also to his reaction Sova did not respond because they thought it was crazy. Please! Such things will happen on the one hand, or we may already be preparing for Slovenia, on behalf of the Pact, to take over all this pig trade for such or other terrorist organisations, on behalf of certain intelligence services from foreign countries. Maybe, I don't know. But whatever it is, it's terrible, and that's terrible. And the government sent us a document yesterday, which it adopted at its 144th letter meeting, where it says that it will be necessary to speed up the work concerning the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO's full membership, and in doing so, it says, some important tasks. One of these is to ensure adequate material and financial conditions for the further development of the defence system. They forgot to write, according to NATO standards and directives from Tampa, Florida, because there is a headquarters. Next it says, "The referendum makes sense only after the invitation to membership." Of course, it doesn't make sense, it makes sense to the government, because if we get an invitation, then they'll throw it all together in such a way that the referendum goes through positive. Finally, the most beautiful flower, which shows the democratic attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards Members or all of the Slovenian people. It reads in such a way that "it will be necessary to ensure a coordinated performance by members of the national assembly in the international community and in bilateral contacts for the support and procedures necessary for the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO". Does this mean that we can expect in the shortest time there will be two single parliamentary groups who doubt, and one single Slovenian National Party Group, which is definitely against joining NATO - to eliminate us? That's how we can understand each other. Is it democracy that the government dares to write something like that? Why don't they say, "Come on, shut it all down." Yeah, well, maybe the government will make it. 28. I have in Maribor in court one of the cases which was also cooked by the then intelligence service because the Slovenian National Party and the Victory of Jelinčič refused to keep their mouth shut. Is this going to happen again? And now it will - will it become a practice? Will the Slovenian intelligence services, instead of foreign infiltrated people who commit crimes in the field of Slovenia, hunt Slovenian otherwise-thinking people? The sisters got away with it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u125	Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u126	Because they got public support. [[...]] What about political parties? What about political parties? What about people who don't have media support? Then can we expect to be afraid to go out tonight, or what?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u127	We can go back to the darkness, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u128	Things are strange, things are tragic and the Slovenian National Party will not be involved in this tragic story. It will cooperate in this way to say that we are in favour of the previous referendum, for consultation, we will support this proposal and in this preliminary consultation we will vote against joining NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u129	Before I give my word to my colleague Janša one warning and one explanation. Some of your qualifications could be understood as, if not insulting, underestimating. Here I am also referring to your qualifications for candidate countries and some others. If you repeat, I will give you a reminder. Clarification, you have repeatedly mentioned why no one mentioned the costs. This morning, Minister Grizold and I discussed his possible performance and I asked him to focus his attention on the costs during the debates and to do so as soon as the Group of Members presented their views. I now give the floor to my colleague Janez Janša, who will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members and will be followed by his colleague Pohorec. Please, Comrade Janša, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you for your word! Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General! Colleagues and colleagues! After this last debate, it is difficult to remain serious, but we are discussing a very serious issue, a decision that stands on the same footing as the initial decision that we actually made at the 1990 referendum. There is no dilemma for the Social Democratic Party, either with regard to Slovenian membership in NATO or with regard to the referendum. We both do. As far as Nate's concerned, I think we were the first party to put this in her program. We voted 100% for this decision when the National Assembly first discussed this in the spring of 1993 and also, as public opinion polls show, there is no major dilemma between our members and voters in this regard. As far as the referendum itself is concerned as the form of decision-making, which is the highest in the Slovenian Constitution, we believe that it is a Slovenian membership in NATO that is such an important decision that it is right and proper for citizens to accept it at the referendum. We believe that it is a decision that must be binding in the sense that it does not depend on the current political majority in the government or in the national assembly and that once it has been decided that it is permanent or that it is valid for as long as the situation does not change. The dilemma of when to hold a referendum is, in our view, artificial at this time. There is a single potential situation in which our Group would also support the previous consultation referendum. We believe that there is no such situation so far, and we hope that it will never be. This situation would occur if, as a reservation or as an argument against the invitation of Slovenia, Nata appeared - and this is officially expressed - the thought that public support for Slovenian NATO membership among Slovenian voters is so low or lowest among candidates that it prevents us from being invited to membership. In that case, a previous referendum would be the only way we could prove that this is not the case or in that situation you have nothing left to lose when it comes to the second round of enlargement. However, given the situation as it is, we consider that the current situation is not the same. We expect that they will not deteriorate in the future. We are pleased that at the start of this campaign, which dates mainly to last summer, very few advocates, active advocates of NATO, are now joined by virtually all political elites in this country and that what is normal changes public opinion or support in public opinion for Slovenian membership in NATO. Such a debate as this one today, where we have slightly expanded the agenda and in some ways repeat what we have already said at the beginning of the year in a public presentation of opinions, is, in my opinion, necessary and useful, but above all, a signal from the outside. What we are doing here today is more perceived abroad than perhaps at home, regardless of the potential short-term television broadcast. And that's useful, too. However, this alone is not enough to be part of those who today oppose Nate, especially because I think they are poorly informed because they are deceived by Floscules, if this will be too expensive for Slovenia in the perspective, because they have somehow succumbed to some anti-Americanism psychosis, which has exceeded all reasonable limits in recent times also with us and which, in fact, until this last government publication, which came into the Slovenian household, virtually could not read even some very concrete arguments for NATO. The debate, like today, I do not think that it is enough for people to change their minds on the basis of the argument or to decide, those who are still undecided or skeptical, because much more needs to be done where the arguments are actually confronted. Here in Parliament - because with one and a half exceptions virtually all parliamentary parties for - this does not happen and no matter how credible the arguments you make, it sounds unilateral. So I think that there is still much work to be done with the membership of parliamentary parties, especially where, according to public surveys, this membership expresses the greatest scepticism towards Slovenia's membership in NATO, as well as with voters, where the situation is similar. At least I would also like to see a much more balanced confrontation of arguments in the Slovenian media area, especially the confrontation of arguments around some of the prejudices, which many represent as arguments. In this regard, let me reiterate once again that one of the biggest stupidities that can be heard in these debates is that Slovenian membership in NATO will cost more than other potential alternatives. Slovenians can give their entire budget security and defence, but we cannot afford the same level of security as NATO membership. You don't have to be an economist, you don't have to be a military expert, you can easily calculate it, of course you can make comparisons with similar countries. Talking about how nice Switzerland is or how beautiful Austria is is, but Slovenia is not Switzerland and Austria and one of the ways to become at least that way is through Euro-Atlantic integration. Stability, security, these are two key conditions for the country to grow faster; if not, nothing else helps. In view of the movements in the Slovenian public opinion, which I think are positive, at least in recent weeks, we see only one greater danger so far, which could prevent those who will only decide on Slovenia's invitation to membership in NATO from expressing this invitation. This danger lies in the eventual assessment that Slovenia is not yet ready for this membership. And it is in this area that I think we should do the most besides this reasoned debate in the Slovenian public. It is, of course, to support reforms of the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian defence system. A minor step has already been taken by a recent vote on amendments to the Defence Act. These amendments have been adopted by a two-thirds majority, and this seems very important to me. But that, of course, is not enough. We've only got some paper bases with this. These first steps of reform, where in these circumstances, I must say, also belong to the professionalization of the Slovenian Army in combination with the voluntary reserve, these first steps must be decisive enough not to be read to us: czech, once again some plans, something on paper, which does not give any guarantee that this will also become a practice. I think that here at this point in the coming months, even when we discuss amending the law on military duty or abolishing military obligations in peace and related reforms, the actual willingness to support Slovenia's membership in NATO in the sense that Slovenia also fulfils the necessary conditions. In addition to meeting the annual plan for NATO, in addition to achieving the partnership objectives, which are very precisely defined, I think that this global reform of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the defence system is crucial here will be a dilemma similar to that of 1991. At that time, of course, there was nothing to help us if anyone said that he was in favour of Slovenian independence, while voting against the Slovenian military and the defence budget. Nor here will anything help if someone says that Slovenia is a member of NATO, but will oppose the necessary reforms, which are a condition for Slovenia actually getting this invitation. The specifics will, of course, weigh this willingness and this support for these reforms must be comprehensive. When I say all-round, I also mean the material side, at this point, it's been broken a number of times. Despite justified criticism due to some reckless purchases in the past in the defence system without some major material support in this initial phase, defence reform will not be successful and this may also result in Slovenia's failure to join NATO. In the Social Democratic Party, we are convinced that it is not only about Slovenia getting this invitation and becoming a member of this developed club, from which no country has ever left; if the costs of being a member of NATO were so great and if those who become members became such poor, then everyone would be fleeing from NATO - so far this has not happened. Candidates are generally less developed than members, obviously this is a favourable development environment, and Slovenia will, of course, be given the opportunity to develop faster by membership, but it is, at least in our opinion, the opinion of our parliamentary group, here also more, that Slovenia joins a space in which the same or similar values prevail, in order to reconnect into a civilisation circle, in which it has sometimes been a good judge, and on this basis we become a credible provider as well as a consumer of collective security. Slovenia must be prepared for both of us, not only to become members of an organisation that will take care of us, but, of course, we must also be prepared to share this responsibility for common security. And these things need to be very frank with the Slovenian public, playing with open cards, not talking about how only others will take care of us, it is necessary to say honestly that Slovenians will also have their responsibilities, their responsibilities and that we are willing to meet them with credibility. On this basis, we will be a credible partner, and only on this basis will the decision in this Parliament or in the referendum after the invitation to be adopted be credible and long-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Comrade Janash. I now invite my colleague Valentin Pohorc to present the position of the DeSUS Group. The last two parliamentary groups to present their views will be the members of the New Slovenia Group and the Youth Slovenia Party. Comrade Pohorec, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, President. Mr President of the State, distinguished Minister, other guests, colleagues and colleagues. Ten years ago, we were happy and proud to note from New York that the young independent Slovenia was admitted to the UN. This was a great recognition to the state and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, after the period of full implementation of the country in the world, we are still discussing the entry of the country into other Euro-Atlantic links, such as the European Union and the NATO Union. While we are highly united in our views on integration into the European Union and are working together to coordinate legislation and ensure a readiness for equal membership in the EU, we are more widely shared in the National Assembly and in the Slovenian public on the issue of integration into NATO. Nevertheless, the National Assembly, the government, the competent ministries, regardless of the swinging opinion of the Slovenian public on NATO, are working with all responsibility to the State and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure our security in the future. We do this first because of ourselves, because it is our task and because it is our duty to stop. If we also have in the concept of ensuring our own security the involvement of Slovenia in NATO relations, we are certainly given the facts and arguments that we can ensure full security by integrating our available defence potentials into the collective security system in Europe and the world, which is NATO. Whether we will be invited to NATO in Prague in autumn this year or not, no one guarantees us. All visits to a number of delegations to us and to ours elsewhere indicate the possibility and hope that an invitation may also come. And why should we have a referendum before the invitation itself and decide whether or not to accept the invitation? The opinion of our group is to wait for the invitation, then with all seriousness and responsibility, if we are invited to join, let us also identify ourselves for membership in the referendum, if necessary, which we do not object to in our party and in our group. We believe that citizens and citizens will also be able to make the right decision on their future own security if it comes to it at the referendum. We do not challenge the Youth Party's proposal for legitimacy and the right to such an initiative. It is part of a complex spectrum of issues that arise when so important is expected. We will not support the proposal for a preliminary referendum at this meeting. In the DeSUS Group and the party, we advocate that the Slovenian public, which is already under way, be informed in various forms, in an appropriate manner with the well-known arguments "for" and "against". We Members and Members must do our job, not here in the National Assembly, but in our base where we come from. In our parliamentary group, we are convinced that there are several arguments on the side of Slovenia's inclusion in NATO than against. I speak on behalf of the part of the generation that has experienced war, which for freedom has also fought, which has been despised, persecuted, evicted, experienced the bloc's division, the cold war and the threat of our borders. We don't want that in advance. All of us here have experienced the collapse of Yugoslavia, we have experienced a war for Slovenia and even more bloody wars in the Balkans, where there will be no peace as long as we have in Slovenia. And if Slovakia, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Romania and Bulgaria are invited to NATO, we will continue to associate with Slovenians in a non-NATO space, which we humbly call the Balkans, from which we left 11 years ago with such a high uniform decision on plebiscite to a new, freer and safer and more democratic world. Can we, with 1.5% of the gross social product, provide complete security of our own? I don't think so. Even if we double it, we don't. We can - as much as we once put in Belgrade, we will not forget for a long time. How willing would they be to give for their own safety if they were seriously threatened? Surely more than the cost of collective security within NATO. In the case of the client and the DeSUS Group of Members, we do not change our own views from day to day. We have spoken for our membership in NATO years ago, and we remain in it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Comrade Pohorec. The views of the Nova Slovenija Group will be presented by colleague Sok and, as it is said, colleague Štemberger, also the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Now, my friend Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u134	Honourable President, members of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague. The position of New Slovenia regarding NATO is more or less well known. So, we are convinced that Slovenia must become a member of NATO if, of course, it will receive an invitation and an opportunity to do so. Any different conduct we believe would be irresponsible and long-term for the safety of Slovenia would also be poor. The policy to ensure the safe and successful comprehensive development of Slovenia in a secure Europe and in the world has the highest priority for our client, I can say. In today's world and modern Europe, which respects the democratic values of human rights, the rule of law, we cannot imagine Slovenia as an isolated island that does not cooperate with its neighbours, which does not participate in joint efforts to build a modern and secure Europe from the Atlantic to the Urals and beyond. We cannot imagine a country that does not care about transatlantic integration with the United States of America and Canada, which has contributed at least three times in the last century to peace, freedom and democratic values in this part of the world and which have also helped us to achieve international recognition quickly after the current isolation, immediately after the declaration of our independence. Isolated Slovenia would mean stagnation in the economic, scientific and cultural fields. I would have become vulnerable and without political weight in Europe, I would not have decided on a new security and political regime in Europe and the world. This would also mean less money for health care, less money for housing, less money for the preservation of national identity and less money for new jobs for our young people. We have recently been concerned about a relatively strong campaign against integration into NATO, led by a part of the political scene in Slovenia, which is devoted to many media to disproportionately much attention, much greater than to that part of civil society and some parliamentary parties, who actively advocate and promote entry into the alliance. NATO's accession to the Alliance is one of the main strategic objectives that we Slovenians have set ourselves, even though we did not vote on it at the time, at the plebiscite in 1990 and at the time of independence in 1991, and which was also advocated by all parliamentary parties in all the elections that have been held so far. The campaign against the entry into NATO and collective security in a much broader way than in military terms alone, i.e. the political, economic and even more civil aspect of security also means a kind of deviation from parliamentary democracy in Slovenia. We do not believe that the historical memory of the Slovenians is so short that we would not remember how lonely we were in the June 1991 war, how we wanted to intercede or deter an aggressor with the intervention of NATO. Did we really forget that only NATO, with decisive action, brought peace to Bosnia; where all other attempts proved unsuccessful? In Kosovo, however, that Serbia has begun to democratise and that today we can cooperate economically and otherwise with the former republics. Can the political will of the Slovenians really be reversed within one year, or may we also have a campaign against joining the European Union? New Slovenia advocates Slovenia's entry into the NATO alliance and expects government parties to act accordingly, and the government will explain more decisively to the Slovenians what we gain by entering NATO and what our strategic interests are. This action cannot be just a matter of a single department minister who is aware of all the long-term consequences of not joining NATO, or perhaps just the Prime Minister. This action requires the involvement of the whole government and its authorities, the President of the Republic, the involvement of opposition and also government parties, who need to explain to their voters why in NATO and what we need to do to do so. It is our common duty to ensure a secure Slovenia and to contribute to a secure Europe and a secure world as a whole. We Slovenians have to decide about this, not isolate ourselves behind some new virtual Berlin wall. If today we are not directly threatened by military danger, but by developing the world as a whole, we are at risk of a modern-day threat, this is terrorism in all its emerging forms. As part of a united Europe, Slovenia will become as vulnerable as all other European countries and North America. Then it is still what it was; it was created to defend democracy, and it still represents today. As far as the referendum is concerned, in New Slovenia we certainly support the government's position that if the referendum is reached, it should be done after the invitation. So we will not vote for this opportunity for the referendum before the invitation. Until then, everyone responsible, including this Parliament, should take advantage of the time and inform Slovenian citizens and citizens fully of all the advantages and disadvantages. Today, too much misinformation is present in the Slovenian public, and this also makes Slovenia's public opinion the opposite of joining NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The last of the parliamentary groups to present their views is the Youth Party's parliamentary group, which is also proposing a proposal for a consultation referendum. Please, colleague Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, both ministers present, colleagues and colleagues! Why the referendum is clear to all of us. The integration of Slovenia into NATO is as important a historic decision, the consequences of which, both substantive, political and financial, will be longer than our mandate in the National Assembly. Why before the invitation? So that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia do not decide under the pressure of the invitation, there is also no appropriate time for local elections, presidential elections or any other referendum, because in this case decisions can be tied to each other. The Government considers that at least two conditions must be met for the referendum. These are: an invitation for membership and a result of negotiations. The referendum is preliminary, advisory and non-binding. Therefore, it is not necessary to wait for the invitation or not for the well-known outcome of the negotiations. Now is the time for the most objective decision-making of citizens: whether activities in the direction of approaching Slovenia to NATO should continue or not; or whether energy and tax money should continue to be used, including for a possible second number of Natopis, or whether such activities should be discontinued. We also propose a referendum before the invitation, because we want to eliminate one of the very important conditions that the NATO Association places on Slovenia as an invitation, as we will clearly express the opinion of the citizens of Slovenia through referendum. In addition, it should be noted that NATO requires strong members who can rely on it, but not, as they say, the new Austria, which walks on the edge of the alliance, and each time decides whether to leave the flight of the aircraft or not, or Greece, where mass demonstrations erupted during the war in Kosovo, or Hungary, which, despite promises, does not want to raise the defence GDP. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we look at the process of involving Slovenia in the union and we do not limit ourselves to our views on the integration of Slovenia into NATO. The question of Slovenia's involvement in the relationship is then about the following questions: who is competent to decide on Slovenia's involvement in NATO, when people should decide on it. The timetable will, of course, be set by the political power bearer. It will all depend on when it is most appropriate and whether it will take into account more than 70% of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who expect the referendum before the invitation. The government says that it is not yet the right time for the public to decide that there are too many questions and too few answers. The party of young Slovenia should decide on this, but we also Members are only one of the people. We are flesh and bone, and if the public doesn't have all the answers we need about Nate, then we don't have them, so don't let anyone force us into pre-trial decision-making. And the question becomes open, on what basis people will decide. We can say that Natopis does not offer answers to all questions, apart from giving them completely unilaterally, only the advantages that Slovenia will gain by joining NATO are described. It is also not realistically described how much membership in connection with NATO will cost us. Even according to the government, no one knows exactly that. The reasons for this should be the lack of domestic experts who could draw up an appropriate methodology for such costs and the production of analyses at the relevant international institutes is very expensive. I believe that the calculation of the costs of joining NATO will be difficult, in particular because the Government has caused major problems, already calculating the costs of purchasing a government aircraft. In addition to this problem that the government has not been able to calculate the costs of membership in NATO, in the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that the government's policy is inconsistent because, despite drastic changes in the geopolitical space, even after 9 September, it did not review its strategy of integration into NATO. In recent years, it has been shown that the relationship then takes its decisions primarily under US tactics. All these changes have been detected by our citizens. As a result of this, there is certainly a reduced support for the integration into NATO. The referendum on the integration of NATO has been held only in 1986 and Hungary in 1997 and even after the invitation, which the government cites as an argument that the referendum decision on this issue is not in practice. We do not agree with this in the Party of Young Slovenia, and we believe that, above all, with the low support of citizens, the referendum is necessary. Therefore, if we agree that the integration of Slovenia into the relationship must then be decided by people, then the time is only a political decision. To all parliamentary parties who signed an agreement in 1997 that Slovenia's integration into the Union is the NATO priority of Slovenian foreign policy, of course the referendum is not responding at this time, because they cannot justify why people's support is so low now or why people do not have information to decide on. But the expected invitation in Prague is approaching, time to convince you, unfortunately, is running out. People define themselves as they do, and it is unfair that by delaying the referendum, they simply buy time to artificially raise their support to the public, judging from your previous campaign in support of NATO, you do not know how to do this. If we remember in 1997 when an agreement was reached between the political parties that the integration into NATO is a priority in Slovenia's foreign policy, and in 1999 when the Madrid Summit was held, then we know that it was not necessary to call a referendum at the time, because public opinion was not so different from the opinion of the political elite. Since 1997, there have been many changes in the world. The world geopolitical space, relations between the European Union and the United States, between the European Union and NATO, has changed between the US and NATO and, last but not least, the policies of the United States, which unfortunately do not respect all the principles of agreements that are the basis for a democratic state. I would only mention a declaration on the rights of the child and the prohibition of child labour. It was not only Somalia and the United States that signed this agreement, the Kyoto Agreement on reducing the emissions of snow gas into the atmosphere, that they suspended their participation in the Mine Action Programme, explaining that the peace between North and South Korea would be so threatened. After September 11th, the power of the United States was also demonstrated when its interests prevailed in connection with NATO. As I have already mentioned, this has led to a distinction between a broad political consensus on public opinion and it is precisely because of this distinction that you do not want to accept as a fact and continue to maintain some arrogant attitude towards citizens, as if their opinion is completely irrelevant and that you are completely self-sufficient. Moreover, this also increases your political elitist distance to citizens who are not even allowed to make decisions. On the Committee on Foreign Policy, the debate was quite nervous, which is quite detailed and, I must say, in certain parts, even a provocative report has already been made by Mr Jelko Kacin, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. At the level of bar debates and such a low political culture, Members of the Young Slovenia Party do not intend to embark. It is surprising to me, however, to have a nervous debate on this point on the parental committee, as if it were a taboo topic, as if it should not be discussed with the public, as if it were the correctness of such a decision, as if we were hiding something from the public. Our referendum initiative was marked as destructive, unserious, dilettarian, stupid and even perverse. But it's not even more perverse to invite someone into Slovenia, and then later to kick him in the ass. In the Party of Youth Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a consultation referendum on the integration of Slovenia into the Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u137	With your performance, we have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Any words or expressions could be avoided. This is a democratic debate that follows the rules that apply to all equally. Now they will have the word of a Member and Members. However, some of the questions raised by the heads or representatives of the parliamentary groups are about to be answered immediately by both ministers, external and defence. They're both promising a very short performance. Comrade Barovich, do you have a procedure? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u138	Yes, Mr. President, a procedural proposal. It is likely that there will be a Member and Members who have been declared - I do not know how many - even a few more questions, for the first time. Secondly, the government has already come forward, and I propose that the government answer the questions and take place after the debate is over. That's my suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u139	So, both ministers - I think the most frank word here - are probably, like any of the Members and Members of Parliament, also retained by other obligations. I think it is best that we give the State Assembly the opportunity to decide by vote whether to give the ministers a word now; but if the Minister can postpone or postpone obligations, of course it would be good for them to respond in the end. I will now make a procedural proposal to the National Assembly in the decision to give the floor to the Ministers for a short period of time. If the Council of State decides otherwise, they will adapt to this decision; however, if they make this decision, they will briefly present their views. I therefore propose that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence clarify some of the issues raised so far in the debate. Please vote on this procedural proposal. We'll take one or the other decision into account. 46 present, 35 for, 8 versus. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 8th.]] It is very short for ministers, first of all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much for the state council of understanding. I give the floor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and then to the Minister of Defence to answer the questions raised so far. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u140	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members! First of all, thank you for inviting me to speak in this debate. As I see, there is quite a consensus in this House for Slovenia to become a member of NATO and for a referendum to be held, but after receiving an invitation from the North Atlantic Alliance. I myself, as colleague of Sponik, wonder what this majority means - whether this majority also means the majority in society, or whether it means the announcement of the majority in society, or whether it means a gap between the majority in this representative body and the wider society. Let me say, as the Prime Minister has already said before me, that we would like a large majority of those who are for Slovenia's entry into NATO, even in Slovenia's society. We want the widest possible social consensus that would be similar to the 1990 consensus when Slovenians decided to be independent. In fact, if I may say so, the situation is similar. I remember in 1990, in the beginning we argued about everything possible, but after a few months we achieved a common platform that, of course, served as a self-sustainment, and finally an excellent result. Allow me to answer as briefly and inconspicuously as possible some of the questions that have been raised here, and to say perhaps some argument that has not been heard so far. First time. I have been asked several times why, as foreign minister, I am working so hard to confirm Slovenia's policy of joining the North Atlantic Alliance or Euro-Atlantic Alliance. It is a very important foreign policy thing, membership in NATO means support for the international situation, international influence, the status of Slovenia in the international environment. Slovenia will have more validity as a member - I hope it will be a member. And, of course, it will also have greater effect on debates and decisions on contentious matters. That's exactly what I'm going to say in the beginning. I think that Slovenia, as a member of NATO, would have a greater impact on the debates on the issues at stake in World War II and on the issues remaining from the Yugoslav crisis. I would like to point out that there are some very controversial ideas in Europe that might, if they grew up, lead us back to the time around World War II and even to change or try to change the results of this war and the peace agreements that have been reached after it. Some of the protests against NATO, in my opinion, are such that they can be interpreted in the context of such historical audits. The members of NATO and Russia represent, if I may say so, a barrier before the revision of the European regime after 1945. Many protest against NATO in the name of ideas that were defeated in World War II and also in the Yugoslav crisis. NATO's expansion will strengthen NATO's European dimension. Some rightly complain that there is no proper balance between the largest Member State, the United States of America, and the other Member States. Europe is currently lagging behind in terms of technology and impact. Slovenia wants this backlog to stop and the European dimension to be more stressed. This is in some ways also our role when we become members or become members of the North Atlantic Alliance. At the same time, the involvement in NATO is an integration into the society of the Member States of the European Union and the possibility of continuing dialogue with them. The European Member States are then mainly members or candidates for the European Union: for example Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and so on. So all this is important because of the forecasting problems. This is also important because of the projected problems in the European Union. I come from Warsaw, where I was this morning and where we talked about how candidates for the European Union will enter this second one, so to speak, a key link for us. In Warsaw, we have heard some rather disturbing information, signals coming from some Member States may concern us. It is to say so, proposals or forecasts for the postponement of the enlargement of the European Union. Obstacles are known: the Irish referendum, the Benesha decrees, possible internal problems in which of the candidate countries, the question of Cyprus. In Warsaw we produced a message of solidarity for 10 candidates, which is a political message. A political message connecting across the borders of European integration and reaching the limits of Euro-Atlantic integration. Allow me because I have been invited in some way to this meeting also because of my participation in the NAK meeting in Reykjavik to say what its main messages are. Only four sentences: Reykjavik means the beginning or essential development phase of the new NATO, mainly due to a new link between NATO and Russia. This new NATO is based not on the principle of confrontation anymore, but on the principle of integration. In Rekyavik, a strong expansion is predicted, what is called "robust energy" in English. Strong enlargement means probably seven members, seven new members, the announced open-door policy, are also open to Slovenia. Slovenia has an open door to NATO, if, of course, it wants to step across, it is our decision; our autonomous, sovereign decision. In Reykjavik, we have heard that there will be no conditional membership, no temporary associate membership, but those invited will be able to become full members of the North Atlantic Alliance. And there's something else I'd like to say that comes from my discussions with the highest representatives of the leadership of the North Atlantic Alliance. The fact that we are also having this moment, in this House, a freed public debate on entering the North Atlantic Alliance, is an argument in favour of Slovenia. Having a free and reasoned debate with us is good. Allow me to say one last thing about the referendum. Of all the Member States, this has already been said today, and I will repeat it with a slightly more precise view. Of all the Member States, the referendum on NATO membership was held only in 1986, after the invitation received, Spain, after entry, and Hungary in 1997. At that time, the referendum was attended by a poor half of the electoral beneficiaries, more than 85% of whom agreed to join NATO. Surprisingly, given the relatively low and moderate support before the referendum. That support before the referendum was 32%. The referendum before the invitation, when we decided for it - and of course the government is against it - might be a reminder of the Slovak "Swords" referendum on 23 and 24 May 1997 before the summit in Madrid, which was a perfect break both in organizational terms and in terms of participation and results. The implementation of this referendum has significantly damaged Slovakia’s international reputation; Slovakia has not fully recovered from this collapse today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for being so drowsy. Mr. Secretary of Defense, Dr. Grizold, I now give my word to you. We're supposed to talk about costs. That would be the part of the questions raised in this area, and then the National Assembly will decide whether to end, suspend or continue the meeting in accordance with the plan. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr President of the Republic, Comrade Dr Rupel and other members of the Government, honourable Members and Members. The objective of the development of the defence and security system is to ensure national security. The reform of the defence system is intended to achieve this objective and the integration into NATO is an instrument that supports our purpose and achieves our goal. The purpose of NATO membership is not merely to ensure the highest possible level of national security at the lowest price and at the lowest level of risk. It's a lot more than that. It is the political importance of Slovenia in Europe and the possibility of cooperation, equal co-decision and, if you want, the right of the year to the decisions of the Alliance, which will inevitably form a wider security space in which Slovenia is located. Without NATO membership, we don't have that option. Allow me to talk about the many times mentioned costs of our involvement in NATO and to reject the obvious arguments that we do not know them. Misinterpretation is that we are planning to moderately increase defence spending in the coming years due to the integration into NATO. With defence spending we finance the construction and maintenance of our own defence capabilities. And we need these in the first place. It is true that the burden-sharing within the Alliance is also measured by the share of defence resources from the Member's gross social income, which increases its credibility. However, it is even more important, as rational and effective as possible, to engage and develop as much capacity as possible. Some opponents of inclusion in NATO simply compare the costs of national defence with the cost of membership in the Alliance and do not want to say that their argument actually supports only the thesis of the complete demilitarisation of Slovenia. The defence system and especially the Slovenian Army are being built and we want to maintain them according to NATO standards, because these are the only ones that are effective and tested. Sweden, Finland and Austria also use them, although they are not yet competing for NATO membership. And if Slovenia is not in NATO, it will still use their standards. The cost of membership cannot therefore be an essential issue. However, methodologically correct and concretely, the actual costs of including Slovenia in NATO can be divided into indirect and direct costs. Direct costs represent the costs of mission and command representatives, participation in the work of NATO bodies and contribution to the common budget. For the first two categories of costs as a partner country we already bear. However, cooperation after accession to the Alliance will be intensified. The direct financial contribution to the common NATO budget is only a matter of negotiation and a possible contract, and it will be determined on the basis of economic growth, economic situation and the level of our defence budget. At the Ministry of Defence, we estimate that this cost, which we call a membership fee at home, will amount to between 0.3 per cent and 0.5 per cent of the total annual NATO budget, which today would be between €6 million and €10 million in current parameters. Some grades are even smaller. Up to one percent of the defence budget, which in the Slovenian case would be, say, two percent of the gross social product for defence would be around €6 million per year. If I'm more specific. At the Ministry of Defence, we have calculated that, according to the human resources and planned financial frameworks, as well as the necessary substantive cooperation in NATO's bodies and on a permanent mission in 2006, all the direct costs of Slovenia as potential members would amount to between €10m and €15m. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the value of buying one to the maximum of two modern weapons systems; this is less than buying - say - one helicopter. The remaining indirect costs that we have at the Ministry of Defence and cannot be included in membership costs are as follows: training, education and training, language education, connectivity with the NATO troops, participation in international military exercises, participation in peace-supporting operations and so on. By the way, Slovenia does not participate in peace support operations for gaining points with NATO, but because of its own security interest and of course solidarity in ensuring stability and security, first and foremost, on its own doorstep, as well as in the wider international community. Just to compare, let me state that at the end of 1989 Slovenia contributed about 5% of the gross social product to the Yugoslav Army, which at the time represented $650 million in real terms, in 1992, 1.83, which actually amounted to $273 million, and then reduced the costs of defence until 2000, so that in 2000 they reached $1.2% or $222 million, and of course under the conditions when we were just establishing the defence forces. With existing funding to build defence forces based on volunteerism and to expect these forces to carry out their tasks, of course, it would be very unrealistic. A key element of the defence reform is the government's decision, as you know, to accelerate the transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces into a professional armed force by 2010, starting with the abandonment of the recruitment in 2003, with the cessation of compulsory military service in 2004 and the introduction of a voluntary reserve in 2010. With the decision to abandon the military recruitment system, defence reform has become a social project that will have a very wide range of effects. Key to this decision is a consciously accepted security risk at a time when the likelihood of direct military threat is low when Slovenia is likely to be involved in NATO. Only in view of the risk taken in the light of the expected invitation at the NATO powder summit can we link structural professionalisation to joining the alliance. Otherwise, the planned changes to the Slovenian Army's replenishment system are not linked to NATO's approach. The professional army is interested in Slovenia and not in NATO's interest. At the same time, we must be very clear that without possible membership in the Alliance, the professional Slovenian army should be disproportionately large and therefore more expensive. Because the key security element provided by NATO would come out. The assumption on which the current constitutional, development, strategic and doctrinal documents for the further development of the defence system and especially the Slovenian Armed Forces are built is the membership of Slovenia in the collective defence system. An integral part of the defence reforms is also a gradual and planned transition to the professional army, with a voluntary reserve, and this is also linked to security guarantees within the system-wide defence. Without NATO accession, the security risk would be too high and the level of safety comparable would be uncomparable. Ladies and gentlemen, reform, effort, work and self-evidentity with NATO membership will not be over. This is a new start and a new start in new situations that will enable new challenges, new quality and the development of Slovenia. We have examined all possible alternatives to our future international status and to ensure Slovenian national security. Membership in NATO is an option that truly provides for greater impact, better conditions for comprehensive development and greater levels of security and defence capabilities than any other option. Although I trust citizens and citizens to make the most of the possible referendum to join NATO, I once again appeal to the responsibility of all actors, the State and civil society, to ensure adequate high support for the public, not only for Slovenia's involvement in NATO, but also for its national and active role in the alliance. Being a NATO member and being a NATO member is too serious and too important a question to avoid these responsibilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-22-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense. Now I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues for a little attention, including kindness. According to the work plan, we should now suspend the meeting and resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. We have already concluded that tomorrow we will begin by deciding on the appointment of a judge on the proposal of the President of the Republic and by continuing with the package of local self-government laws. And all the decisions tomorrow are hand-cuffed. I also think that we should conclude once and make decisions on this agenda item. It is true that it has not been planned to withdraw this meeting today, so I propose the following. I suggest that they support or declare their presence to those who are ready today to withdraw the meeting. If this is not ready, I will understand that it is simple, given that the plan did not provide for an extended working day, that there are no conditions for this today and that we will continue normally according to the work plan tomorrow at 10 a.m. I will therefore put to the vote that we continue or end this meeting today. If, and those who cannot, you will not notify your presence, I will understand that other obligations call us and that we will work in accordance with the plan tomorrow at 10 a.m.; first with the judge, because we have to do this tomorrow, we are tied to the deadline, then with the continuation of this discussion and with the transition to a package of laws in the field of local self-government. [[...]] I put this proposal to the vote. Please identify yourself with him. Please vote in favour or to notify those who will be able to attend the discussion, those who unfortunately cannot be, but not; so that I will see what she is like. That's it. At 6 p.m., so today, according to the plan, I interrupt the work of the National Assembly. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will move on to the appointment of a proposal for a Constitutional Court Judge on the proposal of the President of the Republic. Then we will continue this discussion, wrap it up and decide tomorrow and then go to a package of laws on local self-government. Thank you very much for your cooperation today and for a pleasant and pleasant evening to continue.
