ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u1	The meeting will begin at 10.15 a.m., until then the committee responsible will finish its work. I ask that we understand this situation, because the Internal Policy Committee is now really busy with a number of legislative proposals. So I invite you to come to the hall at 10.15 a.m., if possible, precisely so that we can begin the continuation of the 15th session. Thank you. I politely invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. At 10.15 a.m., we'll be able to determine the presence. Since we're going to start the session, I'm asking you to come to the hall. Today is practically the last day of work in the framework of the 15th session. We have agreed on the priorities of the work, so the timetable for the session is perfectly clear. I think that all the conditions are met for most of the colleagues and colleagues to be present in the large debate room. The Internal Policy Committee, which is really busy with a number of legislative proposals, has had several minutes more at its disposal, but the meeting is now closed, so that most should be present. Please come to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please, can you please take your seats? I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. After the cards on the "display" have been filed, most of the colleagues and colleagues in the hall could start work, even without delay today. Before I determine the presence, I would like to inform you that a few colleagues and colleagues are missing. These are colleagues: Jelinčič, Podobnik, Malovrek, Kramberger, Barovic, colleague of Zalokar Orazem, colleague of Kacin, Grošelj for the afternoon, while Trofenik for the beginning of the session, Zamernik, colleague of Brenčič for the beginning of the session, colleague Kopušar, Jakič, for the morning part of the meeting colleague Kavtičnik, colleague of Beumann, will not be a colleague of Kremžar, in the afternoon part of the colleagues of the colleague of Krebac, also a colleague of Kebric, colleague of Tank, and will also be absent from Peterle all day. I have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting, which I welcome. Now, please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 56 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. At a meeting of the College on Tuesday, we announced a very precise timetable for today. We're supposed to start with a law on the terms of the concession. This will also be done unless the point on postal services is ready to the extent that we can only vote. If it turns out that there are substantive differences in terms of the law, we will postpone the adoption of this point for an indefinite period of time. I therefore ask the Minister and the other colleagues first, whether the conditions are met so that we can vote and thus conclude the point, or whether there are some differences that take time to reflect; then we will go on with the law on the terms of the concession. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think the conditions are met. The Government has tabled two amendments. One with which it returns in Article 4 to the old state and the other, in Article 33, where it also proposes the old situation, of course, that the latter is not aligned in a substantive sense with the amendment's proposer. So, however, I think the conditions for voting are met.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u3	Okay. There's no problem with that procedure. Do any of your colleagues object? You got the amendment on the bench. Anybody want a word? Can we vote on this? Please, Comrade Anderlich. We're having a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u4	Before voting, I request a 15-minute recess on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u5	I would close the debate first, then I would give a break, a vote and we would go to the concession law. Madam Secretariat, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the amendments proposed, in particular with regard to Article 33, I must draw attention to the following. The proposed amendment significantly amends the second paragraph of the basic text of Article 33. I therefore assess that this solution should be aligned with Article 27, paragraph 1, in order to avoid the harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u7	Then I suggest we start with the concession law, unless you propose a 15-minute recess and then a decision. Let's make a deal. If there is no problem, then it is probably worth setting those 15 minutes for the work of the assembly, deciding to work normally, as we agreed. The Act on the terms of the concession, point 14, point 18, point 11 and point 5, is the Act on Servants. I'm taking 15 minutes off. At 10.35 minutes - the debate is closed - we will decide on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u8	The hour is approaching 10.35 as the National Assembly continues. If the 8th point is not ready to make a decision, we will suspend it and move on to 20. We'll proceed immediately. It's 10:36. Time for a certain holiday is up. Once again, if point 8 is not ready to make a decision, we will interrupt it and go to point 20. Please, colleagues and colleagues, come to the hall. I'll be able to determine the presence first. I also ask the representatives of the government, Minister Gantar, to come to the hall. Colleagues and colleagues, I have no choice but to determine my presence in the hall. So once again, I ask you to come to the hall and allow the congregation to continue. I also ask the government representatives to come to the hall. If coordination on point 8 requires more time, we will proceed with point 20. Please. I was just checking in at the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 51 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. The government representative isn't just a minute I'll wait for him to join us, or I'll break this point and continue with the 20th point - just a minute! Look, any one of us is in charge of the meeting, Comrade Brejc, colleague of Krebs, we are trying to adjust to the meeting management by doing as many things as possible, but, of course, everything has some of its limits if we want to make as many points as possible. Once again, I'm asking if the minister is in the hall, or I'm going to have to break this point and go to the 20th. I'm going to suspend this point. Just a moment, please. I say, we are trying to adapt ourselves by taking maximum account of the limitations and opportunities that the competent committees, colleagues and colleagues, proposers have, in this case in most cases, the government. We're trying to reconcile different interests. I am asking the Minister and I am inviting him because he is a motion for an amendment, otherwise I would not specifically insist that he is here. Well, he's joining us. Please. Previously, the Secretariat had concerns of a procedural nature, or do you have such concerns now? Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u9	Mr President, as far as Article 33 is concerned, the Government proposes that we accept it as it is, but the government will not then oppose the amendment to the amendment, which is dealing with it properly, in our opinion, this second paragraph in Article 33. At the same time, I think there will be another harmonisation amendment that will regulate the relationship between this Article 33 and the 27th. And that's exactly what it says right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u10	Have you been listening, representative of the Secretariat, to what has been reported? Can we move on to a decision? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u11	Procedurally, Mr. President. I claim that there are no conditions for us to decide. If the amendment is still in writing, we'll have a break in two minutes for 15 minutes or half an hour. I demand, or I suggest, that we go to the 20th point, after this point, we go back to this interrupted point. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u12	Look, this was a procedural proposal. I would only complete it if my colleague Brenčič agreed. At 20, we would have done point 8. Until then, the conditions should be met. I think that this is a compromise that is acceptable to both the proposer and the national assembly. I put this proposal to the vote. It's a procedural proposal. So we're going to the 20th and right after it on the 8th. I think this is a compromise proposal. 47 present. 34 for, 10 for. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 10.]] We're moving to 20. It's a day's work. Until then, let me ask you to prepare everything for 8. Proposal for a law amending the law on the conditions of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower universe. Please, please, please, please, please, It's a law that's brought in by a quick procedure. It was proposed by the government. I'm asking the minister, mag. Digger, does he want a word? You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u13	Dear President! Dear Members and Members! Thank you so much for saying that. There is a law before you, which has been debated a lot, so I don't think I need to introduce it in more detail, after all, because it's only two substantive articles. The idea of building hydro power plants on the Lower Sava is very old, I think it's already 20, maybe even 30 years ago, but it's never been realized. In the early 1990s, the then government decided to find a concessionaire for the project. This international call lasted a very long time and was eventually also unsuccessful. This is because no concessionaire offered acceptable conditions for the Republic of Slovenia. In the absence of a possible way forward, then the three Members introduced a law on the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the Lower Sava in 2000. These were Members Anderlich, Auschwitz and Janc. This law provided for no longer an international invitation to tender or any invitation to tender, but for the direct award of the concession to a particular undertaking, and this company was to be the adjacent owner of the property each time named Hydroelectrica Vrhovo. In this regard, of course, logic was established, since it is a leading hydroelectric power plant, the first in a series of envisaged hydroelectric plants on the Lower Sava. This law provided for a concession contract to be adopted within six months of its entry into force. In fact, on 9 November 2000, a concession act was adopted by the Government, a decision on the award of the concession. The Concession Treaty was supposed to be concluded, then it was written that way, two weeks later, and then it was never concluded. That's because she wasn't really ready. However, no later than that, since in early February 2001, the government, following a review of the material addressed to the government by the Sava power plant, found that the company was unable to build the entire chain of hydroelectric power plants and that the financial structure it offered was not realistic. As a result, the government then called on all three hydropower companies to work together on the idea of how to achieve this construction. And from this common idea came later or this common idea was later incorporated into the very act of establishing the holding company of Slovenian power plants. The holding of Slovenian power plants was organised, first of all, by a joint appearance on the market, the first most important business function or the most important business function of this holding company. The second, also important, was or is still the construction of a chain of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava. Holding wasn't a concessionaire. The concessionaire was a company of the Sava power plant, following an already issued concession decision which cannot be revoked or abolished or declared null and void. Well, of course, it was necessary to find a way to transfer the concession, which had already been granted in the form of a decision to one company, to another company. Finding this path is, of course, a search for legal mazes. For a while we were of the opinion that this was to be done by the company itself, but then again other lawyers, who were different opinions, warned us that we should actually cut into this law, namely the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, because it is "vis-à-vis the general law on economic public services regulating the concession, "lex specialis". And so a special law that has specifically regulated this matter and, therefore, has to be retreaded in this same special way, if that is the case. Well, that's how this bill came before you today. In addition, I would like to point out that the important fact that we decided on this law was also the valuation of the value of real property in all Slovenian electricity companies, which showed a completely different picture of the financial structure that we knew until then. This assessment was made in February this year. Well, and on the basis of this assessment, the Slovenian electricity industry has over 300 billion tolars of losses, due to the revaluation of funds and, of course, the entire Slovenian economy also has over 300 billion tolars of losses for last year. In fact, it was a write-off, which was fictitious until then, but no one, we all knew that, but no one knew about the exact amount. Why is this important, or why do I now explain it to you in the introduction to this law? At first, we thought that the means from which the hydroelectric power plant chain would be built on the Lower Sava would be the means of depreciation. Depreciation of hydropower companies in particular. Following this revaluation, it has been shown that this depreciation is hardly sufficient or even insufficient for normal or necessary investment of these own companies, these hydropower companies themselves, only to combine this depreciation for some other purpose, as extensive as the project for the construction of hydropower plants on the Lower Sava. This project is expected to cost about 95 billion tolars, it is expected to last for a good 15 years and, of course, an appropriate organisation must be found for such a great deal. Our view is that this appropriate institution, a suitable organisation of holding Slovenian power plants. If we want to hold Slovenian power plants as concessionaires, we must, by law, enable the transfer of already awarded concessions from the Sava power plant to the Slovenian power plant holding company. And that is exactly what this bill provides for in Article 1 of this proposal. Maybe just for a little while about future events. I hope that this law will be adopted today. We anticipate that the concession contract will be signed in early June, in the first half of June. We anticipate that the project documentation, i.e. the PGD project, will also be produced sometime in June of this month, so that it will be able to apply for a construction permit or at the end of June or maybe in July of this year and that the preparatory work can then start sometime in September of this year, and the construction cave itself will be shut down in October or late October or early November of this year. It is envisaged that the construction will take 42 months, so until April 2006 and, of course, we hope that everything will go as planned in a comprehensive study prepared by 30 experts from all three Slovenian hydropower companies. Some amendments were tabled in the bill. As a government, we support the amendments of the Infrastructure Committee and propose that you, together with the amendments of the Infrastructure Committee, support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, mag. The digger. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. Chairman of the committee, colleague Gerencher wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 24th meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment discussed the topic of the law for three days. Representatives of the Sava power plants Ljubljana d.o.o., Holdinga Slovenian power plants and the Municipality of Sevnica also participated in the work of the Committee. The representative of the proposer explained in the introduction the details of who this law is intended for and what the Minister has already said today that I am not repeating these matters. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Council for Law and Legal Affairs, which in its opinion draws attention to some inconsistencies in the introduction of this Act. In the context of the general debate we had on 23.3. and 2.4., the following opinions and comments were expressed in particular: The proposal for a law shows support and also treatment by means of a rapid procedure, specifying in Article 1, on whom a concession for the energy exploitation of the Lower Sava can be transferred. The proposed amendment to Article 5 is so general that it gives the owner of the hydroelectric power plant the possibility of transferring the concession in part or in whole to any legal or natural person, which was also specifically pointed out in the opinion by the secretariat for legislation. It was pointed out that the concessional relationship should be regulated for the entire chain of power plants on the Lower Sava with the owner of the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant with one concession contract only. Concerns were expressed about the financial capacity of the newly established Slovenian hydroelectric power plants Holding as it does not yet have a clear assessment of the financial structure for the construction of the entire Sava hydroelectric power plant chain. According to some information, the means of profit are intended to do so, but so far there is no guarantee that this will be the case. The construction project of the hydropower plant at the bottom of the Sava must begin as soon as possible. It is necessary to make clear when the project will begin and to which stage. Well, today we have heard from the Minister how this phase of construction should be carried out. Many comments were made on the ecological cleaning of the Sava River up to the appropriate level. This has not been precisely specified in the law and it is therefore proposed that it be imposed on the concessionaire to also indicate this important task in the preparation of the programme of measures. The construction of a hydro power plant on the Lower Sava is a national, regional and local aspect of the construction of this chain. Of course, it is undeniable that Slovenia is producing electricity from renewable sources, which we all welcome, so it is important that we also highlight our approach to the Kyoto Protocol under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. Of course, construction for Posavia will have a major impact in space, some negative and many positive effects. It was pointed out that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, at the time of the adoption of the concession law, had also adopted an additional decision that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would prepare everything necessary for the conclusion of concession contracts for all existing hydropower plants in Slovenia. This is a key issue for the implementation of the Water Act and the establishment of [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] water funds. Following the meeting of the Committee on 2 April, the Committee was informed of a written explanation by the Ministry of the Environment on all the issues raised at the previous two meetings or in the previous two discussions. The Ministry has explained in detail all its views, in terms of what Mr Minister has already said before the National Assembly today. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has carried out a two-way examination of the individual articles of the law, II, as I have already said, and on 9 April of this year. At the time of its consideration of the amendments to Article 1(1) of the proposed law, the representative of the Secretariat of the National Assembly for Law and Legal Affairs specifically warned that the amendment of Ambassador Leopold Kremžar was interfering with the rights already acquired by the current concessionaire, since he was obliged by deleting the word "may" to conclude a contract with the holding company of the Sava power plant, d.o.o., and was therefore deprived of the right to decide freely and dispose of the right already acquired. The Committee has defined itself as follows to the amendments tabled. He supported the amendment of Ambassador Joseph Ašić to Article 1, paragraph 1, and did not support Branko Kelemin's amendments to the new A1. Article and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] already in the first paragraph of Article 1. [[...]] The SDS and SLS MPs have announced the withdrawal of their amendments to Article 1, paragraph 2. For the Committee, Parliamentary Branko Kelemin's irrelevant amendments for the new A1 under order number 2 and 3 have become irrelevant amendments as they are substantively linked to his amendment, as well as to the new A1 under order number 1 which the Committee has not supported. Nor did the Committee support its amendment to Article 1, paragraph 2, since the Committee, with its amendment, proposes to amend the whole second paragraph. Finally, the Committee adopted its next amendment to Article 1, as set out on the 6th page of our report. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt a proposal for a law amending the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, a rapid procedure, together with the amendment of the Committee and amendments supported by the Committee. However, the Committee did not adopt an additional proposal for a decision by Mr Jožef Ašić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you very much, colleague Gerencher, chairman of the committee. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. First, a fellow magician asked for it. Visak on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! Dear government officials! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Certainly, the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava created a condition or also laid down the rules of the game for one of the largest investments in Slovenia in renewable energy sources, namely hydropower plants on the Lower Sava, and wanted to cut off the Gordy knot that was in 2000 with regard to the fate of this project, which we have heard is inherently up to date, even for a long and long time. This is certainly an important investment and an important gain for the Slovenian electricity industry and, of course, it is also somehow correcting for the benefit of renewable sources of electricity generation and, of course, following the European Community's energy policy orientations. In the Social Democratic Party, of course, we support such a concept and, of course, we also support such a concept in light, even more important light, that is, in particular, the light of how such an object or infrastructure is incorporated into the environment concerned. I would therefore like to point out that, in addition to the energy and state aspects of this project, it is also necessary to take into account the local, environmental aspect of the environment in which this facility is, of course, being integrated. It is certainly the most important and most competent to identify this environmental problem and, of course, the problem of integrating this facility into the environment of the local community, as well as the competent ministries responsible for this area. It is therefore very important for such a project to take into account the views, opinions, demands, proposals and initiatives of local communities, which have been united in this case - three Posavik municipalities, Krško, Brežice and Sevnica - are united in the world of the province of Posavje in the establishment. The Council of the Province of Posavje has devoted a considerable amount of time, energy and not least money to this project, as it expected from this project a number of important aspects, which are in particular a spatial aspect, an ecological aspect in terms of cleaner Sava, a solution to the flood problem in Posavje, employment of the Slovenian economy and, last but not least, employment opportunities in the region of Posavje, which is, by the way, the region with the lowest quality of life in Slovenia, according to the report on human progress. Finally, it is very important, as I have already said, to produce electricity from domestic renewable sources. Surely such a project can also mean a development boost for the Posavina economy and also a wider, Slovenian economy. That is why we are in Posav and not least in the Social Democratic Party, which stands and will always stand for the interests of people, even in terms of the decentralisation of capital in Slovenia, to implement this project, but to be implemented in such a way as to capture, integrate into the environment and be made in the interest of this environment. And this is where we run into the essence of this novel law and also the essence of some amendments. The Council of the Province of Posavje in the establishment or local community, where this largest investment in electricity in the last years in Slovenia and certainly also in Europe at that time, has adopted different conclusions in terms of ensuring those minimum conditions of local communities and has also adopted important conclusions on the way and construction, which is certainly also conditioned by the concession contract. That is why he accepted - let me mention only some of the essential conclusions that we can also present to the national assembly what the local community minimum requires. The key conclusions are: to propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the signing of one concession contract for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava for the entire chain of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava, and for each individual power plant in this chain, a programme should be signed before its construction begins, showing the scope, dynamics and financing of the construction of the water state and local infrastructure at the time of construction. This programme must be previously coordinated with local communities or with local communities of Posavje. In Posavje we also have one bad experience, this is the construction of the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant, which is precisely due to the failure to meet the conditions that I have just listed, dragged like the yoke of a snake and this is a bad experience for us Posavci to continue in this sense. That is why we wanted to essentially one document, one concession contract to cover the whole project, of course define the project as a whole, and of course also define the dynamics and sources of funding for such a project. This seems very important to us that we can even implement this project. Finally, there were other important conclusions that I will read. The Council of the Province of Posavje in the establishment called for the early development of innovative projects for the entire chain of hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava and, of course, with this conditional also possible start of construction as soon as possible, of course in accordance with Slovenian legislation. We propose to the Slovenian power plant Holding, or the provincial council in Posavje, to explore the possibility of setting up a company, a subsidiary for the construction of hydro power plants on the Lower Sava, in Posavje or in Sevnica. The government, the concessionaire, should sign an agreement prior to the signing of the concession agreement on an organisational approach to the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, which must be the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. In short, in concern for an effective, quality and local community an acceptable intervention into space has been quite engaged here and has laid the foundations of its requirements. I think that the amendment bill, which is also supported by the government, follows the objectives of local communities. Finally, the conclusions of the local communities are also focused on supporting this amendment of the law and, of course, allowing a qualified investor to start building the entire chain as soon as possible and that this project will always be seen as a whole project and we do not support partial solutions. In short, the position of the Social Democratic Party in this case is identical to that of the local communities concerned by this intervention, so we will also support this law with the amendments of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. He's got the word of a colleague of the grandkids behind you. It will present the views of the Youth Party's Group of Members. I'll put my word behind him to my colleague Webber and colleague Kebrich. These are all on the list of representatives of the parliamentary groups who have applied so far. Comrade Peca, also on behalf of the parliamentary group, colleague of Peca. Comrade Grandchild, now you have the floor. However, among the colleagues who will speak on their behalf are colleagues from Auschwitz and colleagues from Kelemin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, representatives and a representative of the government! In the Party of Young Slovenia, we would like to draw attention in particular to the fact that, years ago, the government had chosen the company of the Sava power plant for the concession of the construction of the power plant chain, which was unable to finance this investment, when it adopted amendments to the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava. We believe that the choice of the concessionaire at the time was very reckless and was not supported by professional arguments and serious financial analyses. In this case, therefore, the proposaler of the current law and the then Minister of Economy are definitely in favour. When adopting the amendment, we can only hope that they have better calculated at the Ministry of Environment and Space whether the new concessionaire is able to finance his own investment in the construction of the power plant chain on the Lower Sava, as the Ministry of Economy succeeded years ago. In view of the expectations that the new concessionaire will be able to carry out the construction of the entire chain of hydro power plants on the Lower Sava, in the Youth Party we consider the modification of the concessionaire to be meaningful and necessary. However, we do not agree with the projected pressure on the concessionaire to start building as soon as possible, especially due to the fact that this is a very long-term project, the consequences of which will last for at least 50 years and whose financial analysis shows that the investment at the cost of profitability is only taking into account the benefits of the electricity sold from these plants. In addition to the benefits arising from the regulation of local infrastructure and the regulation of watercourses, the Youth Party estimates that investment is very welcome for the Posav region as well. It is therefore very important and reasonable that the relations between the concessionaire and the local communities, which will regulate the overall financing of this project, should also be regulated in a timely manner. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that the country, as owner of the holding company of Slovenian power plants, is putting too much pressure on it to invest as soon as possible, for which it is not clear from the holding company whether it will have a satisfactory rate of return. Such policy pressure on the economy is not good in the view of the Young Slovenia Party, because such pressure on our electricity producers is mainly due to the non-competitive nature of electricity markets. And regardless of these critical thoughts, we will adopt in the parliamentary group a proposal for a bill with amendments to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. Comrade Weber, on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. After him, as we say, colleague Kebrich and colleague Peca. First, my friend Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a law amending the law on the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the Lower Sava in the content proposed by the Government, which was subsequently supplemented by the Committee on Infrastructure in its consideration. Therefore, we support the decision to conclude one concession contract for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava for the construction of the entire chain of hydropower plants on the Lower Sava. So it seems to us that it is crucial that the concession be transferred from the Sava power plants to the holding of Slovenian power plants, because this means that the state budget also avoids obligations that would certainly have occurred if it remained in the original solution. In addition to these financial consequences, of course, we see great advantages in bringing together the Slovenian water economy, which has not had the opportunity to prove its expertise in recent years, and also in fact the desire to develop the Slovenian water economy in the future. The construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain will certainly be a project that the Slovenian water industry can manage, and if we add that it is a renewable source of energy, this is certainly a European direction, as we will also have to have as strong economic operators in our midst as possible on other international projects as possible after joining the European Union. In addition to these extremely wide spectrums, which are being incorporated into the European Union, this project is certainly important for the development of Posavje itself. It is also certainly an opportunity to develop the economy in this area, and in particular to ensure adequate flood safety, which is an important element for the effective development of an area. So this is also an additional reinforcement for our position to approach the construction of the entire chain, because only the entire chain is the one that also guarantees the flood security of this area. With regard to the dynamics of construction, we are committed to supporting the investment programme being prepared by holding the Slovenian Power Plant and to starting under this investment programme, but above all, the construction must follow the produced and prepared construction documentation, which also means that we avoid future unforeseeable irritations that would certainly cause much more discomfort, both in Posavje and, I believe, in Slovenia as well. So, we are in favour of an approach to building with an investor who will be able to provide financial resources that will be able to build the entire chain and which will be in the interest of all Slovenia and especially Posavje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you, colleague Weber. Comrade Kebrič, you have the floor to present the views of the DeSUS Group of Members; behind you is colleague Peca, the last on the list of representatives of the groups of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we have been aware of the benefits and the need to build a chain of Sava power plants from the very beginning. The matter began in Maribor, where we set certain principles, to help or to be the centres of certain tasks where they are most qualified. We believe that the matter has now been brought about to offer a solution if we adopt this proposal today or as soon as possible. We believe that they cannot have local, such or other benefits that someone sees in a narrower sense or in a narrower area, but we must have Slovenia ahead of us in particular. Hydroenergy is the most ecologically pure resource given by nature, and it is necessary to take into account the ecological requirements and standards that mankind has unfortunately been aware of very late. We believe that this law saves both sides and that it is in line with what we want. That is why, in our Group of Members, we support this proposal and we will vote for it. However, we will not let ourselves go into any individuality, nor will we be otherwise discolored locally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. Comrade Peca, you have the floor to present the views of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u25	Your Honors are here! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, we would also like to extend today's reading point in part to the wrong approach of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolving the concession issue. Concession activity is one of those activities that allows transfer, such as ownership or exploitation of common property into the hands of a particular economic operator. As you all probably know, local communities have been engaged in the field of concessions for a long time and are being rescued in accordance with the law on public companies and in part in accordance with the law on companies. I would like to point out that, in our opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is losing those basic, primary, own resources that our budget could have, through a single law on concession activities in this country, and that it would be worth better standing, especially in the source of its own revenue. However, around the proposed law that we are considering today, I must say that according to point 3 of the explanatory statement, financial and other consequences, where the applicant points out that the holding of the Slovenian power plant, which will become a new concessionaire, is the only one who can combine all the human and financial potentials of Slovenian hydropower companies, but at this point there is no other option than not to adopt the law itself. What this will mean for the region itself is another question. I've heard optimistic predictions that this should only raise the region. Well, if we live in this, then let us be optimistic to the end, even in the Slovenian National Party we will join this optimism. But above all, we fear that the transfer of concessions will not lead to the development of an individual region. In the Slovenian National Party, we would like to point out that such "per partes" for the resolution of concessions in our country, at least the concession from the area we are dealing with now, or the individual concessions for which the possibilities in our country are great, but only if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has acceded to a single act. A single act to ensure, on the one hand, that neither the local communities which have the right to participate in the concession procedure nor the State, on the other hand. This is what our country is losing. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we will support the proposal of the law from an optimistic reading of financial and other consequences, and since, at this point, there is no remaining further activity in this area. Once again from this city, we call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to join, once in the framework of good faith, as little budget deficit as possible, or to try to make a concrete law on concessional activities. That, on the one hand, the local community, on the other hand, the country that is working to bring this area to life in our country at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much, colleague Pec. Mr Brenčič will present the position of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, a little earlier, I received a call from my fellow Member not to support this government. I'd like to give this government, sometimes my government, some earrings more than I can give. However, as a Member and as a Group of Members, we always support this government when it comes before this National Assembly with a project, with a decision that is good for the country and is also designed so that we can see success in it at the start. The proposal of this law is certainly, as we see it, one such project that such a project is important is that the proposaler has avoided narrow partial interests. This is the first thing this law certainly does to encourage him to reach his goal. Secondly, the applicant listened to those arguments of local communities which were an argument in this environment, which would certainly have a positive impact on the implementation of this project, which the law as such releases. After a long run into the empty or in some, in some uncertainty, there is an opportunity that this law offers for the project of the Sava power plants to fail. More than that, it is possible for the real sector, the domestic real sector, to be given a scale of work, which is certainly some major contribution that this national assembly can make. We deal with a lot of other things, but only what we, the real sector, expect from us, is too often, too often, a comparison of the subject of our proposals or our decisions. It doesn't matter to us, most of us, the parliamentary groups, after all, where the holding seat is. It is important that the holding on this start-up project to which it is intended may also be its basic task for which it was established, to confirm and justify its purpose and its existence. That's why we support marriage as a whole. We also support the amendments that are in this context, such as my implementation. However, we certainly do not want to interfere with the support of the amendments and also with the decisions moving away from this basic motto, which has been incorporated into this law by the proposer or by the Ministry of Field Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are also in Novi Slovenije for construction, which has been discussed for almost a decade. We hope and believe that this law really solves the current situation, but we are not at the moment, especially after the appearance of the Minister, fully convinced that this is the case. In this general debate, I would like to draw attention to two issues on behalf of New Slovenia. First of all, from a legal point of view. A month or two ago, in the National Assembly, we decided and discussed the amendment of the Agricultural Land Fund Act. At that time, it was said by government representatives that it was not possible to interfere with the concession rights already granted. And then there was a 20-year concessional relationship for forest economies under the law, but you know that there was a proposal before us that this relationship should be reduced to 10 years, despite the fact that concession contracts were not signed in this case. So, government officials have convinced us that this is not possible. So today there is another situation and we are actually glad that this is possible. But I would like to draw attention to how this same government interprets matters, one way or another, but it follows the pattern, when it concerns our pastures more and what it is intended to do, so the funds are dedicated to the goal. The second point we would like to draw attention to and should be thoroughly informed by the National Assembly is what the Minister said in his opening remarks. He said it was a flat-rate loss in Slovenia's electricity industry of 300 billion tolars. He also said that companies within the holding company do not even have the amortisation resources for regular maintenance, except to invest in construction from these assets. Of course, we would like to know before deciding what is the loss of individual companies within the holding company, what is the financial structure, how will the holding company in which companies have made a loss - I don't know: who, why, when - for 300 billion, how this holding company will finance projects whose values, according to the minister, are estimated at 95 billion tolars in the next 15 years. So we expect the Minister to report thoroughly on all these issues and on this huge loss for the Slovenian situation before deciding. More! We ask the Ministry to present a written report to us, to see how these matters have been carried out and where this loss has taken place. The minister was talking about revalued funds as a loss. So x questions come up with this. However, if we do not solve these dilemmas and they will not be fully explained here, but of course it can happen that we will adopt one law today, after a few years we will find that this holding company has no possibility of building this chain, and it will be necessary to amend the law again in Parliament. In the meantime, of course, let there be a goal that we are already talking about, as I said at the outset, one decade. I hope, Minister, that you will speak more clearly and more in principle about this loss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. This is how Member groups presented their views. I now give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I inform you that three of our colleagues have applied in writing and will be able to discuss timelessly. These are colleague Ašić, colleague Kelemin and colleague Janc in this order. For everyone else, the limit is 5 minutes. First of all, my friend Ashish. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A nice welcome to the government's representatives. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, a very simple law that changes only one article on the basis of the law on the conditions for exploiting the water potential of the lower Sava only brings to this Parliament an extremely broad debate, which we have already witnessed on the infrastructure committee. Although I did not expect to be in the legislative process after two years, since the law that Mr Anderlič, Mr Janc and I put into law, which was adopted in June 2000 had experienced them already or only - however, both questions are possible. If he really wasn't feasible - only or if he's feasible - after two years of change. However, this change is here and in the beginning I can point out that I intend to support the law, as I proposed and supported it in the basic text two years ago. The reasons why we tabled the law two years ago, Minister Kopač has already spoken somewhat, perhaps underemphasized the fact that the failure to implement the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain project in the lower Sava resulted in a series of problems in 20 years in Posav, after the long-term spatial plan of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted in 1985 and when the power plants on the lower Sava became the mandatory starting point of the national plan of the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, it became the area of the planned hydrocentral reserve, where everything and any activities were disabled, and as a result there was a problem in Posavje that is not yet solved in connection with the flood problem, with the problem of the construction of some infrastructure facilities, among which, in particular, can list cleaning and other municipal facilities in Posavje and so on. Since the attempt to start the chain was actually stopped - here I have to correct Minister Kopač, I believe that the first main hydroelectric power plant is already built in Vrhove. This is also confirmed by this law, which speaks of the granting of a concession to exploit the potential of the Sava River from Suhadol to the state border. Suhadol, however, is the border that borders the lower and the middle Sava, as it is also in the middle Sava that the construction or use of this river to generate electricity is envisaged somewhere below. I should point out that the reasons why we proposed the law on the part of the local interest to resolve the problems already described are that we were expecting and still expect to see an accelerated economic development in Posavje itself, and above all it is important for the country. And I would like to stress this importance for the country in particular that it would not seem here in Parliament that we are actually adopting some local law, a law to cover some local interests. The explanation of the bill two years ago highlighted the area of the needs of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to electricity produced, while also describing the effects on economic growth, on possible economic growth in Slovenia, as it was assumed that the planners and those involved in the drafting of the law were associated in this project over a period of 10 to 15 years around 2,600 jobs. These are not just jobs that will work directly in construction sites, but jobs are both projective and especially engineering. In short, it is a real development-oriented and development-supported law, with all the effects that no one has previously challenged and which we have written down in the explanation of this law. In particular, in this introductory debate, I would like to clarify that I think that many colleagues and colleagues do not understand that this law is not based on the law on economic public services and concessions based on this law, but that this law is based on the law on environmental protection and the award of concessions for the exploitation of natural goods or in a particular case of water resources or the energy potential of the Sava River, and that we are amending the law only in that part of the construction and that this construction has become a fundamental problem for the implementation of the law. Of course, without the construction of Savoi power plants, it is not possible to exploit this law and the concessions granted, because without mills there is no energy and it must be built first. But it is, and that's what I'm talking about, this law doesn't completely break the law. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I'd like you guys to talk somewhere else.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u32	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u33	You usually warn me too, but the president is right, even in this case, when I'm being disturbed. Thank you. In fact, after the construction of energy facilities, production will continue. And the fundamental purpose of granting the concession is to produce electricity based on the energy potential of the Sava River, that is a fact. To the question I raised on the Infrastructure Committee, of course, I did not get an answer, and the Minister said that this was a question that we would discuss later. Okay, I also agree with this because if we tried to develop this issue, then we probably could not adopt this law today. The future will come to light on this issue, of course on the day, because I am sure that holding Slovenian power plants is not an organisation that is established for the production of electricity, but for something else, for construction, as the government has written down, and, of course, for the marketing of electricity produced. The concession itself and the award of the concession relate to production. Once again, the construction of the power plants is a prerequisite for the concession of the concessionaire under this law, which we are going to amend today, to use this concession. However, this issue will be topical in the future, as will the issue of the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant, which will no longer be subject to this concession under the amended law, but some others, but this power plant represents the first in the chain of lower power plants and will also need to be regulated in the future. Of course, a number of other questions could be asked. However, because ambitions are in Posavje and, I believe, even in the country, that the construction of the Sava power plants will begin as quickly as possible, so that it will not wait again for two years, because we have been preparing a basis for two years to begin construction, I will, of course, support the law; also because of this and, in particular, because I want to break some of the opinions created that we are the law-makers who are the ones who are stopping the construction of the power plants, which is far from any truth and actually on the edge of some stupidity. Because why else would you choose to propose such a law in a procedure two years ago? Dear colleagues and colleagues! Some of the amendments that have been tabled, as well as the additional decision, will be announced later, in particular in my amendment to Article 1, where I will add some additional explanations to justify why this amendment would be welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Comrade Auschwitz. I give my word to my colleague Kelemina and to my colleague Janz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! As usual, there is obviously no interest in this part of the agenda in the National Assembly. Probably also a number of words that have already been spoken today, which will also be on my side and probably not necessary, but that is how we have decided that everyone wants to say something about this important. In my debate, I would like to draw attention in particular to the fact that many times, as has already been the case with the dilemma, it raises the question whether any amendment to this law is necessary. That's the first one. I am personally confident, given the knowledge of the situation here in this area, as much as it would allow these things to be resolved in my opinion substantially differently and more elegantly if in this government, of course, in the coalition and so on, the interest was that these things should be properly resolved. That's the first conclusion, so we won't get too clear, I don't know any difficult conditions and so on. This is not true, and a number of words, as well as in the bill of law, in explanation and even then, expressed at different levels, have been completely unnecessary, even deceptive or misleading. In short, I just need to explain a few things. Even though I've already said it, even if I'm going to be ten more times, it won't be too much - according to my assessment. In fact, again and again Mr Kopač points out that the Bajuk government has done nothing on this project and that it is her fault that this project has not gone forward. That's a clean lie. And he's always saying the same thing. I don't know why. I don't know what purpose he's always stressing it back and saying it's true - of course because now it couldn't deny it because it's a written document - in fact, this law was passed, you know, in 2000, just when Bayuk's government was really in power, and the law was passed. Then the hands were set there, and I'm not going to say that there were very sharp hands to fulfill. And it was the first deadline for granting concessions to the concessionaire, I think, three months after the law was enforced. This provision of the law has been fulfilled by the Bajuk government. Then they wrote in there to sign the concession contract within two weeks. Even though it was written in there, it's not as problematic as you say. Then nothing else happened, Mr. Digger. Six months was the time limit for signing the contract with the concessionaire for Vrhovo and for Bosniak. Why do you always say they haven't done anything since then? The Secretary of State has always been Dr. Golob in this previous government, except for that period of Bajuk's government, and then he was, of course, a undersecretary - good at first, because it doesn't matter. Let's let these things go. But he had in his hands all these levers to act on. Then why didn't you do something right away? You knew the whole issue from the Continuity. And the fundamental question that is being raised here right now in this amendment of the law is why, in fact, you have not brought this project much further than you are today within a year and a half. Today you are spinning and you have already found 150 variants, I will not now list them, just go look at all those articles in the paper and so on and other events that have happened. I collect it all, you know. But I'm not gonna represent this here right now because there's no time. In short, if we go to see how many variants you've already had and what you've already figured out, God has mercy, it's better not to say it because it's going to get bad. Well, you've done too little. I'm not gonna say you didn't do anything because sometimes we're a little radical, and I say you didn't do anything. No, because you've been doing a lot of work, and you've done something, but the key things haven't been done. You haven't found the key solutions. And also now, of course, you have come with a change of this law, because, as much as our representative of the parliamentary group has said, we will probably support it, but it must be stressed that I strongly oppose it and that the blame for someone else, for those poor 6 months of a previous government - that it has done nothing and that it is to blame that this project has not gone forward. No, that's not true. I strongly protest this and I also ask that you no longer use these things and that you are objective, in accordance with the events that have taken place, as well as with what is written in this bill. You haven't used the words "we, the government or anyone, we weren't able to, we didn't know, we couldn't do, or anything, we couldn't do." No, you're all-powerful, and everyone else knows absolutely nothing. All right, let's leave it at that. However, the former government - and I must say so - has reserved some funds for the construction of this power plant with some decision of the government, it is said already in 2000. And after the new authorities arrived, in January 2001, the funds were distributed among the electricity companies following that decision of the government that had been reserved for construction. Then, in January 2001, you distributed it, 3 billion and a half, if I'm not wrong, or how much money, even though the government's decision was slightly different. Anyway, I never claimed that it was the only possible way to build. No, I never said that! I've always said that if there are other instruments to start construction, let it be done as soon as possible. Also what some of you are stressing today, debaters, representatives of parliamentary groups - I can comment, of course, on your discussions - when you are talking about some political pressure and so on. This isn't about political pressure. The economy needs to know what's profitable and what's not. Politics needs to know all the political backgrounds behind it, and they need to be taken into account. Some of you mentioned it, but not all of them. Not unilaterally looking at things; if you look at them, then look at them complexly. Also, the fact that this is the largest electricity project in the last 50 years, as the ministry has stated, is not true; these have been major projects in the last 50 years. It's a very small project, it's only about 8 billion dollars a year. These are no funds for the Slovenian budget if it is also financed from the state budget. But it won't be financed from the state budget. If we don't buy the plane, we can build Bosniak right now, just for comparison. Bosniak, an energy facility, we can build immediately if we don't buy the plane, because this plane is likely to stand in the final stage by building the hangar and all the stuff that's already going on, it's only going to cost the door 80 million tolars. So that money would have built me the energy part of Bosnia, the money would certainly have been found, the resources could be found. However, the second question is that this holding company, which you have also designed to build a chain of Sava power plants, you now find, after only a year and a half, that you have found that this holding company from those sources that you previously predicted and some other, such or other, is not capable of carrying out this project. Now you've found, the last version is that you're going to build the energy part out of the difference in price from the sale of electricity, it's said, from the profit generated in the sale of electricity, which has been in the holding business lately. I hear there's a version now. I hope that it will be true that the price will be so favourable and that you will make such profits so that you can build this chain. Now, how long will this take, is another thing. Well, let's just leave it. In short, the holding company doesn't have the money right now and the only money that is currently, but they're counting on those supposedly 4 billion or how much that they have Savoy power plants and you're also saying that this would be the start of construction. Okay, well, if you're saying how those 4 billion are made there now, I'm not going to open it up because we've already talked about it, but you've actually found out that the holding money doesn't have. What is most important, dear Minister Kopač and representatives of the government, is that you do not have any money in the budget reserved for the state infrastructure. You don't have it right now. And you think, I don't know how to credit it and then, over the years, return it and so on. I mean, you don't have these things worked out, you don't have developed schedules, you don't have financial plans, and so on. In short, huge, huge things are still missing. When you get all this together, I want to know. I hope, of course, at the end of the day, that by amending this law, which will be adopted today in the National Assembly, you will have another opportunity, in fact another opportunity to show whether you really are serious about this project, or whether you have come back to the National Assembly only to deceive and now all responsibility is really on the last time that you have come with this amendment; it is: the government, the minister, the Secretary of State and also the holding company as such, or everyone involved in this process. All those 300 billion losses, you'll explain why it was created and so on. However, it is probably one of the projects, in my opinion - as it may not be - but one of the projects of a new evaluation of energy facilities is also that the price can be brought together and that this will then be privatised in the near future. But we'll talk about it when we get a chance. We won't now. So much for that. However, at the end of the day, I wonder who is most responsible for everything at the level of the government, that this project has not actually been carried out as envisaged by the adoption of the law, and that even after the adoption of the law certain things have not been done as they should have been. I am firmly convinced and no one will convince me that this is not the case: mainly in addition to Minister Kopač - but because of the change and so on - there is no such responsibility on him, the primary responsibility is on Dr. Dove, who has a very negative opinion on Members, so much so that you will know.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u36	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u37	Because he also said somewhere what I know to show - some statements he made, from a quote I tear out, he says: "It just points to some low intellectual level of Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u38	My friend Kelemin [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u39	In the debate " precisely with regard to this law, it is with these matters that Mr Kopač has made such a statement. [[...]] [[...]] Can you imagine, honourable Members here, what bad assessment does Mr. Digač give us all together? The only comfort I have here, of course, is that our Group of Members does not count as the most Members and that this is not the most important thing in our Group of Members: the low-voltage intellectual potential that it is somewhere else. In short, if anyone would like to be in favour of correcting this intellectual potential in the National Assembly, he should run for office. But Mr Golob does not want to run because he would only have a parliamentary salary and could not serve on a side-by-side basis without knowing how much money. But he's known to be on five boards of oversight. This is important.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u40	Comrade Kelemin!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u41	This is an important, respected president! Mr Golob runs the entire project of the Slovenian electricity system. And if a chain of Sava power plants is built, the responsibility lies solely with him and no one else. In addition to his high salary, he earns money on the presidential, supervisory boards and in addition to the other studies he does for the Ministry of the Economy and for other institutions, so that I do not refer to these things. He wants to make $10 million a month, not just $500,000 or a million. That's right!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u42	Comrade Kelemin! It is very rare for me to go to the discussions of colleagues and colleagues. But one is the case that you give in the context of the debate on the law, and the other is if you go across the border. Please hold on to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u43	I know that only responsibility must be defined that it is also known that this law will not be enforced, who is in fact the most responsible for the fact that this project - in the event that it does not happen - is to blame. Mr Kicker, of course, directly, as a responsible minister. In fact, his Undersecretary, who is very keen to cynically laugh at us Members in a mustache, how we are discussing at a low intellectual level. That's typical of him. I hope this stops soon. In short, you will get the green light, the law will be adopted and all responsibility will pass to you. I would also point to one aspect of this proposal. That is to say that I have also proposed one of the amendments, because the law is adopted in a fast procedure, and I have had this opportunity to propose that one of the conditions - because some representatives of the parliamentary groups have already stressed here, and I hope that you will then also further advocate that one of the conditions for the start of construction, or for the completion of the Sava chain, should also be set up for the organic cleaning of the Sava. We in Slovenia have adopted a number of documents: the national programme, then, if you remember, is already a decree, if you are not mistaken, on the location permit for the Vrhovo, which predicted that Sava must be cleaned before the operation of the Vrhova until the second quality class. In fact, we in Slovenia cannot allow a new cesspool to be created in Slovenia. We know what happened on some other facilities. Now, look, here too, the Slovenian Ecological Movement has given itself a document, I hope you have read it and that you have seen how seriously they point out that these provisions, adopted by the Government and certain guidelines, are not being implemented. And we can't win. And look what they wrote. They wrote that it was actually becoming the Vrhovo Slovenian crease. And that's real. From all over Ljubljana, Celja from and everywhere is pouring into Savo, here is even mentioned, about a million cubic metres of various floods and waste. In fact, half of them remain in the lake and gather at the bottom, even heavy metals are among them. It is. These are environmental problems. And we, in particular the local community, all Slovenians must strive to make sure that we try to clean it as soon as possible. As soon as possible. And this is the largest Slovenian river that could really be a new pearl in the event of purification, which would show to our world how to, let's say, clean a river and how a river can then develop thousands of different activities, from tourism and so on, many other activities that could bring additional revenue. I know it's a huge expense, a huge expense- at the moment, but we have programmes for this, and we also have European funds to use. If you remember the last time you receive or take note of the report on accession to the European Community or the European Union, we have found that certain funds are not being used. Probably also in this area, I now have exactly no data, but simply certain things, certain opportunities that Slovenia has, do not take place. Who's to blame? Just government and no one else. It is therefore necessary to take advantage of all the options that we have, all the resources to exhaust and approach the Sava to clean up ecologically and at least by operating Bosnia - what I know, in four, five years, before it will not be built, or after six years - to simply clean up the Sava to this level so that there will be no environmental disasters in the future. I am firmly convinced that you Members will understand this. I firmly believe that there are many eco-aware Members here and that somehow you may also understand whether or not you are trying to ensure that such conditions, the additional conditions for the operation of all power plants on the lower Sava, are fulfilled. I'm pretty sure. If this doesn't happen - I tell you in person, sometimes I've already told you that if these Sauce power plants are built without cleaning appliances and so on - because I live with, so to speak, Blance, where the next power plant will be - air lines might be 300 meters - so in a joke I said I would move out if I didn't live there. Now I will not move, but now I will say that I will not move yet, but I will activate the entire Slovenian public, the civil public, I will take the lead, including the Slovenian ecological movement, and we will fight for this Sava to be cleansed. That's what I'm gonna do. I'm not throwing the gun in the corn. Just enough to say. And I will do everything I can to make this happen if necessary. If I have to, I'll get back to you. That's it for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Skull. No, no, no. The last person who has the opportunity to come forward without a time limit is a colleague of Janc. He's been followed by a colleague of Skolch. I ask, does anyone else want a word from the Members and Members? My friend Bernick. Okay. My friend Janc, you first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. I hope to reduce my unlimited debate time to 5 minutes. Indeed, this discussion has already been so much said that there is almost nothing to add, precisely because of the reason, because the genies of the creation of the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava - were created in another time period. It was created in the previous term of office. How did it even come about? How did the idea of making such a marriage come about? In fact, the law was created in 2000 mainly on the basis of one government document, which, of course, was also published in the Official Journal. It was a government regulation on a concession to exploit the energy potential of the Lower Sava. It was an international invitation to tender for four companies: Canadian company, French company, Slovenian-Austrian mixed company and Slovenian company. It is precisely because no one has shown - that is, in the procedure of the government until 2000, when the government found that none of the potential concessionaires met the conditions for obtaining the concession that the government had, of course, completed the procedure. On the basis of these documents, the law was created. And the law provided for the award of concessions, not on the basis of an international regulation or an international tender, but by law. And the law granted concession to one who, of course, had previously shown an interest in the construction of the lower-Savina chain, and this was the owner of the first hydro power plant built by the Sava power plant Ljubljana. It's a hydropower plant. Of course, what are the reasons given in the 2000 law? They come mainly from about 50 studies conducted by 1994. These studies, based on the expertise they carried out, not only in Slovenia but also in other companies, produce all the consequences, such as energy benefits, environmental benefits, environmental benefits and so on. In fact, the problem of blocking space was simply to be resolved. This is what we wanted to do with the bill's proponents in 2000. The National Assembly in its previous composition, with a large majority, I think that even by a vote more or by consensus in its presence, the law was passed. When the law was passed, at least in Posavje - those of us from Posavje - saw certain possibilities to solve our problems both in terms of flood safety, i.e. flood safety, construction of high-water embankments, both in terms of the release of space in the Sava River and in terms of the engagement of our own labour force or the economic potential that exists there. It seemed logical to us that if the state intervenes with such a burdensome intervention as the construction of five hydropower plants, in the Sava basin, this would have the effect of simply counting on a lot of people to be involved in the construction, thus, of course, reducing the great unemployment that is in Posavje and depreciating the great social hardships of the people and of the economic societies that are there. Now, don't make me repeat what was said. After the adoption of the law, one of the state councillors approached me and colleague Ašić and said: "Fanta, they caused a great storm in the Slovenian space." It really wasn't clear to me what he was talking about today. In fact, it was never disputed about this: the construction itself, the construction content, the dynamics of construction; at the moment when 460 million euros of investment began to be discussed in the Slovenian space, this storm was triggered. And that's the catch of this law that's been proposed today. I will, of course, support it myself, for a reason, as already stated by my colleague Aššič - we do not want to be the one blocking good intentions on the continuation of construction. Only, gentlemen, I think there will be a word about this in the Slovenian space, perhaps not in our mandate, but there will be a word about it. In fact, things are simply, in my view, not completely clean and there are many doubts about what good intentions are. And if I now return to the beginning, because I cannot replicate the debaters who spoke on behalf of the parliamentary groups, it is obvious that everyone in this Chamber sees the project of the lower Sava from their perspective. And if I said in the dictionary of the captain of the Slovenian football team, I'd say, "Mariborians, capo down!" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Please present your position, colleague Školč, behind him, colleague Dr Bernik, and this is also the last of the colleagues who have applied for the floor. I say this so that colleagues who want to vote will be able to act like they are coming to the hall. Please, my fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I am particularly surprised in this law that the incredible benevolent of the National Assembly is expected to come up with solutions that are practically changing from month to month. In all these stories, the predecessors have spoken, and from this point of view, I cannot get rid of the impression that the law is what we have on the table today, a law that must cover some of the moves that we have not talked about and that have no direct connection to this law or to this Sava chain. What am I thinking? The previous law was prepared by Mr Golob professionally. The present one, too. What I'm interested in is what happened between the previous and the present law that the law needs to be changed. If things have changed to radicalise what was then, because this is a very big project, it was not possible to predict, then the question is whether it is possible to trust people who have overlooked this to act properly now. But these questions are, I'll say, for a coalition member of the question of rhetorical nature and, I'll say, the subject of the reassurance of the opposition colleagues. But it would be very good to say what things are those that have happened, to do a compromise that someone who would not live in Slovenia and who would not do so would not understand at all. It says earlier that the headquarters of the company that will build this will be on the Supreme to receive this concession. Now she says she can move on. It's a bill. Let's not go blind. In the meantime, many things have happened, concessions have also been granted, and a great deal of the question is, if the one he got was, say, a foreigner, or if it could just be cancelled. I'm afraid not. It would be a great international scandal, economic, political and whatever. It would be a very big scandal. Remember the story of the concession that a company had in its own time for filling gas, and then it was not possible to realize certain of these cities. What effect did all of this have on you? What we've been talking about! And I think it is right that the governments of the countries where this company is established are seeking the interests of those companies that pay part of their contributions to their cash registers. It's nothing unusual. Here this was abolished for a simple reason, because the reorganisation of this - in the old words - electricity economy has been carried out in a way that no one else has to complain to anyone else. It can't even be done. Because you could just, what I know, someone - what has been said here - who owns it in the morning is the manager of the afternoon or the manager of something. What's to be done? What's to be ordered that afternoon? The next morning, the same morning, he complains back to the same guy. When we heard stories about holding, it was said that the holding company was also set up to build it. Parliament was incredibly upset - not because of this, but because of the seat of the holding company. If Mr Golob then intended to hold this building, then this discussion would not have been, but would have been the seat of the holding company at the Summit. And it would be the only possible solution. Since this has not been done, we have a change of law today. And I would really ask that the government not take all the responsibilities of itself, but that Mr Golob should tell us exactly what parameters have changed in the context of changing the law and how it was possible to reorganise and assign to this holding company some tasks that were known that they could not be carried out under the applicable legislation. Otherwise it's a function [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u48	A fellow schoolboy!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u49	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u50	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u51	I'm really gonna finish. [[...]] The function of this law is simply to cover the mistakes that have taken place for two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Comrade Dr. Bernick is, as I say, the last on my list, then we can move on to a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary. I would like to refer to the remarks already made by my colleague, Mr Sok, and partly by Mr Školč. Mr Minister mentioned in his presentation that the law or changes are very short, which is very good to know. On the other hand, this shortness is inversely proportional to the content and importance of these changes. Here, if I understand correctly, it is a huge financial contribution and it is also a major restructuring of the entire business of this sector of our economy. But all of this cannot be understood by a man of reason. What the Minister has said should have come to our bench much earlier in order to see that we have the right framework for studying these problems. I hope I won't be too critical or even unjust if I say it's your ministry that gives us extremely little data and sometimes it's just weird. We talked about this months ago, for example, when Krško or the contract with the power plant Krška and so on. However, it seems to me that this should be changed very thoroughly. Whether it's some kind of arrogance or they don't think that Members are smart enough to review financial structures and proposals. I don't know what this is about, but in any way, I think you'll have to change that if you want to have a good reception in this house. It is also about somehow giving the impression that the principles of government property management are different from those of the private industry. I think that we have also talked about this, because the private industry would certainly not come to the board of shareholders or managers or anyone without revealing all the details, financial and other. We don't get that here. I'm really surprised you haven't figured that out. I'm sure you've heard - I don't know how this would be good for the Slovenian word - about "executive summary", which is a document that submits all the essential elements of a project so that management or anyone can evaluate it. Well, it may have been put anywhere else, but we didn't have it here, and I would ask that we get it later, because without it we are actually making a decision in the complete darkness, and it seems to me that as far as the information that we can give to our taxpayers and explain this big project, without it we can't do it. I thank you for in advance, if you're willing to do this, but if you're not, then we'll talk about it again in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Well, in addition to expressions of support, some criticisms and questions. Does the proposer want to respond to this? Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. I will try to answer some of the questions that I have recorded in this debate. Maybe first with regard to the ecological cleansing of the Sava. This is not really a matter of this law, although I fully agree with Ambassador Kelemino that this is an important issue that the ministry is trying to solve on the other hand. Let me remind you that the main source of pollution from the Sava is actually sewage waste, mainly from larger places. That's why the Ministry went before I came to this ministry to deal intensively with this problem. At this moment, I can say that the first project funded by the Ispa Fund is under way in Slovenia, the European Union Fund, which is the predecessor of the Cohesion Fund for us when we are full members, and this is a project to build a cleaning plant in Celje, which will be completed in 2004. The largest pollution, for example, in the existing lake at the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant comes from Savinja. The second such project, which we are also helping, is carried by the Ljubljana municipality itself, is the construction of a cleaning plant in Ljubljana, which - just to illustrate - during the summer months when the Ljubljana flow is small, is a flow of 8 cubic metres per second, and the sewage is from these 8 meters per cubic meter per second; you can imagine what it can survive in such water. This cleaning plant, I hope to be completed in 2005, certainly before the start of the operation of the Bosniak hydroelectric power plant. In addition, we are building this instant with the help of European funds, including the cleaning plant chain in Lithuania, Zagorje and Hrastnik. As regards the provision of infrastructure resources, which was also a question, let me say that this is precisely what we are looking for to form within the budgetary water fund. The proposal is before you in the form of a second reading of the draft Water Act, I hope that this second hearing will also be adopted at the May session. [[unusually long has this law been kept on the parliamentary benches]] , and I hope that by summer the third consideration will also be adopted so that we can start using the water fund funds that are already flowing at this moment, but we cannot use them because the water law is not yet in place to build the infrastructure. However, this is also not warranted in this particular case because the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava provides that the concessionaire invests resources so that it can obtain them automatically through credits with the State guarantee for the construction of the infrastructure part of the investment The eyewitnesses that I have been told, if I were to report to the Transitional Government in 2000, that she did not make her own, are not real, or if that was said, I apologize. But the fact is, the concessional act was granted. This is relatively simple, but one decision is written; what is crucial, because the content is all together, but it is a concession contract. At the time, this was not ready for signature, it was written a draft, but it was not ready for signature and it did not come to that signature. It is true, however, that in about six months, as was the legal deadline, the new government of that time, when I was not yet Minister of Energy, had found, on the basis of a study of the pre-investment design, that the financial structure was completely unrealistic and that it was otherwise necessary to approach this project. And the realization of this - you have shown us that we have done little, that we have done something, that we have done little, but Mr Kelemin - the realization of this was the establishment of a holding company and, after all, a proposal to amend this law. However, I think that at that time - as I was also a Member - in the spring of 2000, when this law of the three Members was being considered, we overestimated the government's time-bound ability to process such a great deal as the formation of a concession contract. The question was asked who would then own the same hydro power plants on the lower Savi. The owner will, of course, be an investor, here I don't think there's any dilemma. Then it was said that this law now transferred the seat of the Supreme to another place. That's not true. The seat of the Sava power plant Ljubljana is specifically located in Medvod, not in Ljubljana. The concessionaire under this law is supposed to be holding Slovenian power plants. Member Školč's discussion also stated that this law abolishes concession and what would happen if the concession were lifted to a foreign company or to an undertaking whose owner would be a foreigner. Once again, this bill does not abolish concessions. This law only allows those who are already concessionary to take it away from him - I also said that in my opening act - to pass on this concession because he himself is unable to realize it. Well, there's no dilemma about that. The financial structures alone of the Sava power plant are incapable of being assembled and nobody has ever argued with the shower. It's a well-recognized fact of all. So only the concession is passed on, it is not withdrawn, it is not withdrawn. It was said that the holding company was given a function at the time of its establishment that was unable to perform and that this law was now simply covering something back. Of course, holding was set up to perform a function. At that time, the legal order was such, but of course we are now proposing some changes. But I think it is impossible to expect - let's say that only for illustration: when you adopt the draft budget, this draft budget is based on some assumptions, based on the assumption that this law will change and that law changed and that third law changed. Because budget lines are planned, they are not planned for - some are planned for non-existent legislation and some are planned for planned changes to existing legislation. And it would be impossible to accept either or it would be impossible to run any policy in the government and in Parliament if they did not foresee any changes to certain laws. The situation in politics would be completely static. That's why I don't think this reading is in place. It has also been said that we are a ministry that provides insufficient data. I didn't understand exactly what the data was. As regards data on the timing of the construction of the Bosniak hydroelectric power plant, and because the dilemma on the infrastructure committee was a dilemma, as regards the financial structure data for the construction of this hydroelectric power plant, we have delivered all of this to the members of the Infrastructure Committee. As for other data in general, because the obvious was more general, at least that's how I understood it, and I have to say it's hard to accept. We are the ministry, which definitely answers all the questions sent, written and oral, within a time frame. You haven't been able to tell us a single delay yet, at least since I've been secretary. We pay a lot of attention to that. But perhaps I did not understand correctly and the data was more relevant to this valuation of real property, which I initially mentioned, which resulted in a loss of more than 300 billion tolars. Of course, we can talk about this, we can send you a report, it is not a problem, although of course it is not a matter of this law today. That's all I want to say. For decades in the Slovenian electricity sector, losses have been masked by fictitious revaluation of funds. We went, ordered an estimate of real property; if I'm purely banal: what a building is worth, how valuable office equipment is. This is an estimate of real property, it's not a dynamic estimate of value to talk about how much a thing is marketable, how much it has some potential profitability. This is, in short, a purely normal assessment of real property. And this assessment has shown that over the past years, by fictitious revaluation, with such amortisation, there has been a massive loss, but now we have recognized that fact. This was to be done sooner or later, and we did it on the transition from last year's to this year's. So much about it very briefly. On Dr. Golob's question about the difference between this bill or the situation in this bill and those in 2000, please, if Dr. Golob answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u56	Please, Dr. Golob, Secretary of State. Behind you, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Perhaps you would start with a statement that might be unusual, obviously, because it was a question of who was responsible. But I don't know if in this country we all run away from the responsibility of making it so clear. I'm not running from responsibility. And if what Member of the School and Ambassador Kelemina are asking me to take public responsibility for this project, I think I have already taken over, as I have taken over the post. But if not, it's a waste of money for my job. When this law was introduced by three Members, not by Dr. Golob, Dr. Golob helped prepare it professionally. At this time, from 2000 to today, it has changed - what? Drnovšek’s Government changed in January within all the deadlines provided for under the law when the concession contract was to be signed, it found that the existing concessionaire did not meet the financial and other conditions at that time, so that the subject matter of the concession could lead to the conclusion. It wasn't a finding that I was there again, but it was an inter-ministerial group made up of several ministries that found that out. As a result, no concession contract with the Savoi power plants was signed in January, and it is correct that it did not take place. The government then instructed all companies to develop a new pre-investment design to determine whether together the three companies are capable of making this investment and in what way. And the companies themselves, the hydro company, not Dr. Golob, came up with the idea of creating a holding hydro company. After the formation of the holding company, also in order to take over the construction of the chain on the lower Sava, it is normal that the law could not have foreseen this, especially in 2000, when the holding company was not present and the holding company was established, including with the task of preparing everything necessary for the construction of the chain on the lower Sava. The Management Board of the holding company took note of a number of legal opinions of eminent experts significantly more prominent than I, legal experts, I am not a legal expert myself, whether it is possible to transfer the concession from the Savoi power plants to any other legal person without prejudice to the law. Professor Juhart's opinion and Professor Pirnate's opinion were that this was possible. Thus, we would also avoid this debate in some way in Parliament, although I am glad that it has come to it, because it has only traversed the way forward and now it is clear to everyone what is the way forward. Otherwise, it would be rather vague, but there would be speculation about the way forward. And what happened after we realized that, despite these eminent legal opinions, there was still a disagreement as to whether or not an intervention was needed. We went to a minimum, I stress, minimal intervention in a law that takes nothing away from anyone, but gives someone the opportunity and the right to transfer his concessional right and obligation voluntarily to someone who owns it. The cleaner, not legal, not proprietary, and I don't know what kind of solution, I don't see, because probably most people don't see it, but some of you are convinced that this solution is also untransparent. That's changed. This is why we are here today, which is why today we are discussing who will be building the Lower Sava, although this is primarily an entrepreneurial issue, and it is right that solutions come from the company that was set up for this, and this is holding the Slovenian power plant. But if the president lets me because there's been a lot of talk on my personal account. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u58	No, no, no. I suggest you don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u59	Don't let me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u60	We wouldn't be having any further discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u61	I would just say that, since I was Secretary of State for the first time, that's in 1999, I haven't been in any of the studies or participated, except I signed with the State Administration. None. What bothers Member Kelemino is a study that was not with the State Administration and during which I was not on the mandate. It bothers him. Then let him say it. It's not like you're missing anything. By the way, I'm in four control councils, not five.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u62	Good. Please hold a peaceful debate in the National Assembly, this is the case for everyone. First my friend Anderlich, then my friend Kelemina. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u63	Nevertheless, I believe that the Secretariat should explain its views or, of course, the Minister and the Secretary of State, given that, on the other hand, the Secretariat clearly points out that things that have been done under a law cannot be reversed by the following law. This is the area of concession award, which has already been granted. In the opinion of the Secretariat, the proposed amendment to Article 5(1) also raises a number of new issues. In particular, we note the following: the question of the implementation of a decision already taken by the Government, the question of the relationship between the co-signor and so on. These questions have not been answered, nor have they been implemented in the relevant amendments to address these issues. I ask that the Secretariat undisputedly clarify these issues, because this could create new complications and would certainly move away from the objective, by regulating in paragraph 3 only the relationship for HE Vrhovo within 3 months and for others within 6 months at the latest. Does this mean that this decision, which has now been or has been adopted, will now be suspended by the adoption of this law from now on for 6 months for Bosniak or not. Is it possible to use the government's conclusions that were for the implementation of the HE Bosniak implementation programme, or is this actually moving away from all of this? As it is written here, it is certain that it is not exempt, as it was meant by the original law, from first being granted to Bosniak or together for the entire chain, but first for Bosniak and then for everyone else. In this law, of course, this is now somewhat blurred and there is no more talk about Bosniak and this first already awarded concession and, of course, the necessity to conclude concessions for the other power plants in the chain. Please, if you'll explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I give the floor first to my colleague Kelemina, and then I will ask the secretariat for an opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you for saying that again. I just want to clear up a few things. Now, Mr Minister has also spoken of this great loss in the electricity system, and this has been hidden for decades. Look, it's a little sad that in fact, in those ten years, when LDS had a leading role, you couldn't put clean bills on the table. Here it can also be seen that it was one big bunker electrical system one big bunker one big fortress in which no one should have interfered. Nobody. Nor did the committee of the National Assembly, which is in charge of monitoring an economic policy, say, in this case, nor did the national assembly discuss this. Why didn't he discuss it? Because he probably didn't have any information. You're making fun of Members here so we don't know anything, and we're like that, I don't know what's at the low intellectual potential. We don't have information. I very much ask you why the Infrastructure Committee, which is responsible for this, has previously been this economy for years and years, does not discuss these matters. Why isn't he asking for information? Why doesn't the government provide data? In short, the system doesn't work! And it hasn't worked all this time in ten years. Now I, Mr. Copacz, if he has discovered this, congratulate the man who finally put things in his place. Why not? It's just that we could've cleared these things up sooner. You had your chance, you had it all in your hands, why you didn't do it. In short, these 300 billion, we're not going to discuss this, but we know those of us who are interested in these things, how did you come to this and how did you think it was 300 billion. But it's all worth nothing because you've lowered the book value and revalued everything. It is true, however, that electricity companies, individual electricity companies, have very highly valued their bookkeeping facilities, I mean values, so that they can then account for some depreciation at that price of electricity, on the basis of which they had some means of development and so on. I admit it was probably overvalued. Now, the question is, was it as different as you wrote it? But this is due to this administrative pricing. We know, look, now the Sausage Power Plants are getting 2 billion 500 annually paid electricity for the same amount of electricity produced, and the Soviet Power Plants are getting 4 billion 500. That's what I just said. It is said that 2 billion Soviet power plants get more for the same amount of electricity as mammals produce. Well, you see, it's administrative pricing, and so on. Give such a price to Savoy power plants, and they will build them, and yet they don't actually need more than 2 billion a year. That's right. I'd like to ask you here to be very precise and precise. As far as responsibility is concerned, it is. In fact, all those involved in this project must assume this responsibility, and you must work effectively in accordance with the legislation adopted. I can't help you here. It's your responsibility, because the laws were written, the hands were written, so we also wrote the interpellation. If you are not, if you have found in time that you cannot meet the deadlines set out in the previous law, you should immediately propose amendments. That's right. Write an amendment to the law immediately so that these hands cannot be fulfilled, nor should these things then be problematic. However, the concession contract prepared by Dr Pirnat, for which a special commission was also set up by the Bajuk government, which coordinated this concession contract as early as January 2001 so that there was no way to do so, however, is the reason that this government was no longer confirmed. In fact, you interrupted all processes, all procedures, because of some new findings, etc. However, if you would have done so to go ahead with that procedure and the Sava power plants, perhaps in some way, then with some security guards to sign this concession contract, the Sava power plants could have prepared at least project documentation and all the other things. A lot could have happened. But they waited, of course, for a little blackmail because they didn't have a concession contract, and a lot of things didn't happen, and it could be done, studies, projects, etc. Today we have no documentation, we cannot ask for a building permit because there are no projects to do so either. And that's one of the reasons. Now you're putting it all together in the winter version. In short, a lot of things didn't happen, and you could. So it is truly your responsibility, and after the adoption of this law completely upon you and nowhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of the Secretariat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the part of the Secretariat, I can say the following that, in fact, the secretariat is very quick to explain the law, and in some cases even, I will say, not entirely in line with the basic solutions that have been offered, raise certain questions. Since the solutions were not clarified in the legislative material itself, the applicant subsequently provided additional clarifications on the home infrastructure and environment committee, in particular with regard to the warnings that the Secretariat has established in its opinion, which in fact clearly indicates that the concession is not a withdrawal, but rather a transfer of the concession, which makes sense under the Law on Economic Public Services. This is said to remain in force and to be done by harmonising the concession contract. We assume that it is also essential to conclude a concession contract, which will, of course, have to be precise in some way and relate to all the entities that play a role in this situation. In this respect, clarifications were made to certain questions by the applicant. I would also like to say that the secretariat is not aware of the internal relationship in the holding company. For this reason, in our opinion, we have given further attention to whom a concession for the exploitation of natural resources can be granted under the Environmental Protection Act. In accordance with Article 111.C, it may be an operator up to a regulation governing the award of concessions on those sources to a public service provider, natural goods concession holder, to extend the duration of the concession or to increase its scope, and to the holder of an existing right to manage, use or exploit natural goods for its extension or increase its scope. Thus, we have, in fact, pointed out the circumstances to be taken care of in the continuation of these procedures, where we have not had enough data to assess whether they actually exist or not. The government has already responded to some of this, and it is possible to do so, in particular with regard to the award of the concession, but I do not think there have been any direct answers, but perhaps there is now an opportunity for relations in the holding company to clarify and confirm the possibility that, of course, it is also a natural source of concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u68	Anyone else want a word? A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u69	Look, of course, I am not interested at this level, as the Secretary has reacted, but purely on the legislative and legal or management competence of these matters. That's why these explanations don't seem enough to me in some way. In fact, it would lead me to think that I could react humorously and say that there would be no problems if there were no reorganisation of the electricity economy. It could be concluded that by the time the holding was established, when it was not clearly possible to transfer these concessions to the holding company, this change was therefore necessary. Ergo could have concluded that if we had left electricity alone, we wouldn't have had these problems. But it doesn't even matter that much. What the two articles actually do is even more problematic than the basic solution and to throw all the cards on the table, the basic solution is kind of weird, because the law already says that the one who sits there will have a concession. There could have been a lot going on out there, but there wasn't. Now it says so that this concession can be tolerated. Things aren't as clean as they used to be, because there's already a structure in the background to which they're going to be transferred. But what if, hypothetically, the one who received the concession acted as if he did not know these backgrounds that we are talking about now, he would find out what Mr Golob claims that that company is not in a position to do so, to start looking for a potential partner on its own. And what if it turns out that there's a bachelor third potential partner, not just electroholding? Of course, there is a security guard here who is in some way inconvenient that if Mr Golob had not given his consent, then that would not have been possible, or, of course, the government writes there that there would be no misunderstanding. I'm doing it on purpose because I think these things are written to allow, I'll say, fishing in mud. This is, I will say, the problem of this text, which excuses things back and in fact in one part the responsibility of the one who will have the seat at the Summit to conclude the relevant contracts forward. The government will only be able to give its consent. Of course, I have no doubt that it will do so responsibly and responsibly and so on. Here says a colleague, as always, who was in at least two government ministers and knows that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u70	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u71	The remarks are welcome, President, at least to me. Well, anyway, the text of the law allows for something that, I suppose, the lawmakers didn't want: that there could be a third. I ask whether this law will start from a zero point, or whether these holding contracts will be concluded immediately without question. If this is the second, then we can also write it in the law, it will sound rather unusual, but it will be more like that basic law. If it is the will to seek the best solution, then this denial should be here clearly and loudly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I'd try to close the meeting by 1300 hours, but we're not gonna make it in terms of our applications. First Comrade Ashish, then he signed up, I think Mr. Minister, then Dr. Bajuk. Please, let's go in order, first of all, Comrade Auschwitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. I would like to add a little bit or explain what Mr Školč has just explained. This is quite a replica of the part where he claimed that the basic text of the law was a bit odd. Well, we've done a lot of work with this weirdness in the drafting of the law, even with the help of our secretariat, we've solved some things. The environmental protection law already mentioned several times, which is the basis for this concession, has been consummated by this law by taking advantage of the only option, which is the legal possibility of granting a concession for the exploitation of natural goods, since in all other cases there is a need for an invitation to tender. Of course, we also had an invitation to tender, which was unsuccessful, which was also discussed by my colleague Janc. On this invitation to tender, which was published in 1994, which was processed until 2000, no one else, except one of Slovenia's hydropower companies, applied. However, we have three - we have not entered the Drava power plant, we have not entered the Sokska power plant, we have registered the Sava power plant, once as a stand-alone candidate, once in combination with a mixed company in Solasto with an Austrian partner, and two more, as my colleague Janc mentioned, from France and Canada; from Slovenia only one company dealing with hydroelectric energy production. It is clear that if we wanted to resolve this knot by law and start building it, that we had legally foreseen the one who applied for the invitation to tender, the invitation to tender was concluded for a third reason. However, in order to resolve the problem of possible reorganisations in the future - the energy law has brought a long-term vision of privatisation of Slovenia, including energy companies, we have decided to write down as the holder of the first chain owner's concession. The first in the chain is hydroelectric power plant Vrhovo. Each time the owner, even after ten years, will be the holder of this concession. So much for where this weirdness is, but it has all the reasons for what I've said so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, I give you my word first, and we'll let the minister have his last one before the end of the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Two things. Firstly, I have a request that the opinion given by the representative of the House's Law Office be obtained in writing and before the decision is taken. I'd like to ask us to get this as soon as possible. The second question is to the Minister. What is it, exactly? I hear a lot of words here, but when I go back to my brother's marriage, I don't know what we're really talking about. The speech and interpretation of the Secretary of State is that something has changed, but there was one holding company then there was, and now the holding company is, so we will create this possibility, otherwise by law, that the original company that received the concession can do so, and I will read it "partly or completely transfer it to another person". Look what we're facing right now. That's a very interesting thing. Why am I worried, but it will be clear and clear to those who have already participated in the debates on the sad history of the Insurance Company Triglav and the entire insurance system, that there are really strange things happening in Slovenia. There are some, I think, planned confusion. Social property becomes state property, then there is no state, hide certain boxes, names such and different, and now, we have a holding company ahead of us. Mr. Minister, holding Mr. Minister, if I may, holding is not an independent state. [[...]] Holding is socially owned and, irrespective of such and different reference to laws and regulations, is the responsibility of the Slovenian government. You came here to this meeting and informed us, otherwise very flat-rately, that you have losses on the electricity industry, namely 300 billion. I can't really know how many aeroplanes this is, because we don't know what it's gonna cost for that famous aeroplane. But there's more than one, I'm sure. And tell us about it. But then you said that, of course, you could send the reasons. Now let's go back. So, the original candidate can't do it because he doesn't have the money. It's rumored to be a holding company that tells us he's got 300 billion losses. We don't know if he can pull it off. And the final interest is this: the law does not say that this will be transferred to holding. All it says is that this concession has part of it, it can partially transfer it to another person. And I'm asking you who this person is. What if we find out in 14 days because we have 300 billion, whether it's clear to anyone that this is finally clear what we're talking about? And the common sense is again asking me this question. What happens if this holding company can't? Not to start the whole debate about what it means and what it means, compared to what my colleague Dr. Bernik described in the private economy. If someone comes to the shareholders and says, "You know, I have 300 billion losses, but..." How can this even happen to come with a single proposal before this national assembly without explaining, not just sending a report, actually reviewing, thoroughly examining whether this is even feasible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you very much. All I have now is the minister's application, mag. The digger. If there is no further discussion after this, we will conclude the debate, if it does, we will move it to the afternoon part. Please. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u77	Yeah, I'll be right there. I think it goes both in the performance by Mr Školč and in the performance by Mr Bajuk on the misunderstanding or, indeed, on the basis of a basic text proposal, as we have sent it, and is published in the Rapporteur. This is what concession can be passed on to another person. This other person is later specified in the amendment by Mr Ašić. It says it can be transferred to holding Slovenian power plants. And we support this amendment. There will be no misunderstandings, but now there will be another X, a third person. Besides, the holding company, which is state-owned, not social property, has no loss. Thus, that loss information refers to individual undertakings within the electricity industry and the holding company has no loss.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Comrade Anderlich, you have the floor. I know, but we're gonna go three minutes in one to close the debate. Please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u79	This is not a replica, but a request to the Minister. Whether you can provide us today or not, or before we decide to do so, you can tell us if it is even a law and with this amendment, which we need to study well, if it does not actually create more fog than clarity. Is it even possible that this holding company can handle this? Because finally, what's changed. It's changed that you say the concessionist can't. Now you've told us something here that he has 300 billion losses. How do I know he can, how do you even know he can? At the same time, this impossibility that we have to get to the last moment to get the amendments to the table. Yeah, yeah, well, it's about holding. Yeah, I don't know, those of you who wrote the marriage before, you're having trouble with it now, and the one you sent was not real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u80	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u81	I can answer this very briefly. The debate was thorough, the amendments are not from now on, but have been tabled by individual Members for a long time. The discussion on the Infrastructure Committee was thorough. There was also a presentation of all the financial structures concerning the holding company. Members of the Infrastructure Committee, which have deepened into the problem, have also received all these answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u82	It's 1:00. We have another motion for discussion. Let me tell you how we're gonna handle this afternoon. We're going to end point 20, then we're going to go to point 8, because it's ready, this is a vote on the postal service law, point 5, this is a proposal for a law on public servants, at 14, this is a law on registering electoral law, and at point 18. Thank you very much. Once again, there will be no misunderstandings: the 20th point, this point, will be on the agenda at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 15th session on 25.4.2002, Maria Possonec from 11 a.m. on and Bojan Kontič from 16:00 on. Since we're going to be present, I'd like to ask your attention. May I have your attention, please, because we'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. We're picking up the presence! The first determination of attendance was not successful. I think and appreciate that there are absolutely enough of us in the hall. So I'd like to ask you again for some attention. Next time, we find presence in the hall. We're picking up the presence! There are 46 of us present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We are on the 20th item of the agenda, this is when considering the proposal for a law amending the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the lower Sava, a rapid procedure. We're still in the general stage. Mr Anderlich was announced for the debate. Would anyone else like a word in this work? Because no, Mr. Anderlich, I ask, do you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. So I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles and the amendments tabled to the bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.4.2002. I ask for some attention because the review of the amendments, which bears the date of 23.4., is also subject to some changes. In order to discuss and decide, I am making an amendment to the new A1 article, namely only an amendment under order number 1 of which is proposed by Mr Kelemina Branko, and an amendment under order number 2 of the same proposer, which is corrected. The correction is not in the review. But you've got him on the bench. Thus, we will discuss the amendment under 1 and under 2, and Mr Kelemina is both the proposer. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Respectable. Just for a little while. As I said earlier, regardless of the words made by Mr Minister, that this law would not also address the ecological cleansing of the lower Sava, I can still agree with him in some way, but without any reservation I can say that it is not impossible that one of these conditions would not be written in this law. In this law, many conditions are written that must be taken into account in this law. One of the conditions is that the Sava River should be cleansed. I also said what the Slovenian Ecological Movement said about this. I still insist that this is in the form I have proposed. So, first of all, the A1 amendment, in the beginning, is another amendment, which I have corrected, with a small correction to be adopted. So much for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to debate, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. As Mr Kelemina himself, the proposer of the two amendments, said, both amendments are being excluded. First, we decide on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! The first vote was not successful. May I have your attention, please? There's enough for a valid vote in the Chamber. Secondly, we vote on the amendment under order number 1 for the new A1 article. Let's vote! The second vote was not successful either. I do not know the reason, so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I interrupt work for 10 minutes. We continue at 2.55 p.m. when we vote on the amendment for the third time. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u86	That's all I'm suggesting. If this happens again, we'll take a 10-minute break, I'll call the leaders of the parliamentary groups. The message and the MPs are enough. It is only to try to end normally, patiently today despite the many obligations we have. So if it happens again that it will take 10 minutes to rest, I will suggest that we meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups, because we have many items on the agenda and they are all waiting for them to be considered and adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We continue as foretold.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u88	I ask colleagues and colleagues who are close to joining us, because this is the third time we will be voting on the amendment under order number 1 for a new A1 article, of which Mr Kelemina is proposing. Please, colleagues and colleagues, come to the hall. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment under order number 1 for the new A1. We're voting. There are 58 present, 12 votes against 34. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the amendment to the new A1 article has not been adopted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. This is a revised amendment of the same motion. We're voting. There are 56 present, 17 votes against 33. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. [[It's a mutual conversation.]] I apologize, this vote was not necessary and has been repealed. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 1. At Article 1, seven amendments were tabled and the amendments in order number 1 and 7 were withdrawn and the amendment in order number 4 corrected. I am opening a debate on Article 1 and on the amendments. Mr. Wolf, please, then, Mr. Auschwitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you, Madam President. I would explain the amendment under order number 4. The amendment was created on the basis of a discussion held at the meeting of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee and is of a more legal and technical nature. In doing so, the amendment follows one objective, which is to remove doubts as to when the period in which the concessionaire has to go is to conclude a concession contract with the concessionaire. On the basis of the amendment adopted, it will be quite clear that this should be done within three months of the entry into force of this amendment. At the time of the proposed amendment, I must point out that the amendment fully summarises the content of the amendment of the Committee under order number 6 but, in my opinion, it is more legally and technically appropriate. I would also like to remind colleagues of the amendment I have tabled today, in which I propose an amendment, by deleting the word "building" in the amendment, and by changing the word "whole chain" in the word "whole chain", so the amendment reads as follows: "For the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava, one concession contract is concluded under the terms of this law for the entire chain of hydropower plants on the lower Sava.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Of course, it is a key, in fact the only, substantive, article of this law. This law amends the basic law by allowing, if adopted, the transfer of concessions with the permission of the concessionaire and the consent of the concessionaire under the basic law to another person. In the debate, it has been heard several times and I think that Mr Ambassador Jože Školč has acknowledged that this very moment the law is not transparent. For these reasons, I wrote this amendment. As the article was written, it can mean a number of things, even though the explanation of the law is quite clear about this. The transfer to another person may, of course, mean that this concession may be transferred to any other legal person who fulfils the prescribed conditions under the law, including the law on environmental protection. Of course, then it can be understood that it can be transferred to anyone in the field of electricity production and not to holding, as described in the explanatory memorandum. Therefore, in the amendment, I propose deleting the word "to another legal person" and I have written down that this law should follow what is the basic purpose of the law, so that it can be transferred to holding the Slovenian power plants, which was established with the aim of building a chain of Sava power plants. Fear that such non-transparency could be expressed is, of course, justified, since it is not long before a proposal has been prepared for the government to transfer the concession without amending the law to one of Slovenia's hydro-enterprises. I therefore propose that this amendment be supported, as also supported by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. At the same time, I propose that Mr Vukko's amended and amended amendment, which he has just explained, be accepted, because the Infrastructure Committee has already adopted, following its erroneous amendment proposal, because the law we are amending does not speak of a construction concession, I have already explained this, but of a concession to exploit the water potential of Sava. Construction is only a prerequisite for this potential to be exploited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u93	I'm sorry. I forgot to say earlier that the amendment under order number 4 is related to the new Article 2A and that the amendment was also tabled as a result of the secretariat's comment on legal non-consistentness or legal technical inadequacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. The amendment under order number 1 has been withdrawn. We decide on the amendment under order number 2 of the review, with a footnote, if accepted, the amendment under order number 3 becomes irrelevant. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 60 of us in attendance. They voted 4 to 50. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number 3. Let's vote! There are 59 of us in attendance. The vote was 53, against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 3 has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number 4, with the footnote, if adopted, the amendments under order numbers 5 and 6 become irrelevant. It's an amendment that's been corrected in writing. The written correction is on the bench. And he's been orally repaired by Mr. Wolf. Is it clear what content we decide, or do you want me to read it again? Is he okay? Good. We therefore decide on twice the amended amendment under order number 4. Let's vote! There are 58 of us present. The vote was 53, against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment under 4 has been accepted. Under 5 and 6 they became irrelevant, under 7 they were removed. We decide on Article 1 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 56 of us present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 2 which has not been amended. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on Article 2. Let's vote! There are 57 of us present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of Dusan Vukko for a new article 2.a. As has been explained, it is linked to the amendment already adopted. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 50 votes against one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to the new Article 2a has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 3 which regulates the validity of the law and has not been amended. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 58 of us in attendance, 53 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 1 and 2a were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to these articles, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? Since there are also no amendments tabled in the third reading, I ask the secretariat whether the amendments adopted could undermine the compatibility of the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. Therefore, we can move on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Vote explanation, Dr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. I cannot support this law alone, and I would like to explain why. The whole procedure and the debate itself have also shown the irresponsibility of our government and representatives at the meeting of the national assembly, and in particular that we have not had a clear picture in the national assembly and we do not yet have a clear picture of whether the actual holding which will carry out this work is financially capable of doing so. Above all, it is a matter of the Minister's statements, which I must correct once again. To my particular question, Mr Minister, you have answered that you have reported these things to the committee. I looked at the magnetogram, and you mentioned it in the last days of March that it was supposed to be some kind of loss, but never at all. This was not properly discussed; the National Assembly is not aware of the actual possibilities of this institution in order to carry out this, which is an irresponsible act. But I am informing you now that I will not rest until we have a clear picture of what is happening today in the National Assembly. This burka is ten years old; we start by lowering the value, the book value of things that are state-owned, then some buyers show up and, in the name of national interest, they clean everything up nicely. Gentlemen, Slovenian citizens and citizens already know this game and we will no longer fall for such work. Until you have clearly and transparently presented what is really going on in this sector, we will not give you peace. However, I consider your performance here to be a highly irresponsible work of the Minister and representative of this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u97	There are many reasons why this law does not make any particular sense to support and should be rejected, but I will vote in favour only for one reason, in order to dispel all doubts that in any way the possibility of building power plants on the Lower Sava has been hampered. Otherwise, it must be said that all the conditions for the law that we are amending now have been established that there are absolutely no elements or answers to the Secretariat's comments, except in the first part, it has been answered, but not in the second part. The secretary from the secretariat said she expected government representatives to respond to those parts of the reports or comments of the secretariat that had not been answered to the Committee and that the text was not corrected accordingly. The fact is that in the ten-year history of planning - and now there is a real picture of two ministers sitting together, who so-called handing over a baton at the efforts to build power plants on the Lower Sava - Mr Gantar has been engaged for at least seven years in the contract after the tender and so on, with a contract that we could not sign for many reasons with the already selected concessionaire. Then we, uh, went to the other end of the line. So let's make a law and after this law will be possible to start by building a chain and at least what it is, start immediately by building a hydroelectric Bosniak. This was not the case, and given the things that we have heard today, which have been so-called subject of debate in recent months, and because laws are not done in a way that if you don't want something, you can't do it simply to change them. Of course, measures must be taken to ensure that these laws can be implemented. This law came under pressure. It was created in conditions when someone did not like something and, of course, with petitions, with meetings of various organs and so on, and promises, came up with another solution. I fully agree with Mr Bayuk that there is no transparency in these plans. He did not guarantee that tomorrow what was not done under this law would be as possible, as it will be possible to do so tomorrow. I am firmly convinced that there are all the conditions for signing a contract under a government decision now called popular by Bajukov to conclude a contract for the first power plant and at the same time to transfer everything under the changed conditions of the establishment of the holding company to the one who, of course, will give the money that it has, or will rent credits and so on, and will, of course, also be the owner of it there and will benefit from all the credits arising from it. But as it is said, I will uphold the law because I will not allow myself to be perceived as the one who could in any way not contribute to the beginning of the construction of the chain on the lower Savi. On the contrary. For 10 years now, I have been expecting and I understand all those who have spoken even more authenticly today from those environments that are directing or expecting certain things from this national assembly and from this government to begin with the construction of this chain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. Of course, I will support the proposal of the law, not because of any political pressure or any other manipulation, which is enormous, regardless of the fact that you have rejected my amendments because you are not ecologically aware, because you expect this to be resolved elsewhere. Let's hope he does. We'll see about that. I will also support the law, as has already been said, only to impose responsibility once again on all those actors who are involved here and who have not done everything they should have done in order to make this project come to life if it was to bring this project to life. I think that in fact there has been too much politicisation, too much tact, too many different interests, which are neither the interests of the national assembly, nor the interests of the government, nor the interests of the economy, in this initiative over all the years ago, but I do not know what forces and powers actually have more power than all the regular instruments and all the regular institutions in this country. It's present. No one has so much power in this country, not in Parliament, not in government, nor in others, that these things are put in their place by law, by control, and so on. I expect that this law will now divide this responsibility and that is why I will vote in favour of this law. And I hope that it won't be necessary to re-interpel somewhere in the summer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you. Since no one wants to explain their vote anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 56 of us present. It's 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. We have also received two proposals for additional decisions on this law. First of all, I am putting forward to the debate a proposal for an additional decision, which you also have in the review of the amendments on page 5, which has also been amended, and this is a change - Mr Jože Ašič, the drafter of the additional decision - which is not in the review and is on the table. I am opening a debate on the proposal for this additional decision, together with the amendment. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. That we are perfectly precise, the text published in the amendment review is replaced in full. From the text that was considered on the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment where it did not receive support, the most controversial part of the text is drawn above all, which speaks of the fact that the National Assembly should call on the Government to allow, in order to build the chain as quickly as possible, the opening of the preparatory works before all the conditions under the amended law are met. When I wrote this decision, I did not foresee that the law adopted would also legislate the provision that a single concession contract should be concluded for the entire chain, which I think is very good, of course, under the condition that the conditions of local communities for all power plants to the state border will also be precisely defined. This decision, which I propose for adoption today, calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to allow the construction to begin before all the conditions under this law are met, because I think there are still a number of unknowns to implement this law, but it could already be implemented, as some preparatory work has already begun. To get to know your colleagues and your colleagues better about this topic [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u102	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u103	I must say that the Bosniak hydroelectric power plant is already in operation. [[...]] You'll probably be surprised, but the preparatory work is underway. A regional or main road is being moved to the section where the future construction pit will be located, the pipeline is being moved, all the land is bought, residential buildings purchased and a large proportion of the inhabitants of the area have already been relocated. So we cannot say that it is not possible to continue to build - even with the excavation of the construction pit - at a time when this new concession contract will finally be signed, with the transfer of value, and when all conditions will be created in the holding company, so that the investment programme can also be adopted in the government, as required by the original text of the law, and when the investment programme for the water state and local infrastructure will also be approved. Given that funds are also available for this part in the present concessionaire, and the current concessionaire is undoubtedly one of the signatories to this contract, such a decision is possible. I propose that it be accepted and, of course, I propose that the government also take it seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you very much. We will therefore discuss and decide on the amended additional decision that we have on the bench, not in the review of the amendments. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I understand the good intentions of this Decision. In short, it is a matter of calling on the government to issue appropriate building permits and other legal acts to that effect as soon as possible. That call itself is certainly well-intentioned. Once again, I must point out that we have presented the time-frame foreseen in the explanation of this law and that I do not see this timetable being skipped so that there is no misunderstanding later. If this decision is adopted, I only understand it as an invitation to accelerate all parts, but this does not mean, of course, that the construction permit for the construction project itself would have been issued earlier before the harmonised list, as regards water infrastructure, before the PGD was created, before all things were prepared in short. As far as the construction is concerned, the fact remains, of course, that according to the expert opinion, the most appropriate is the so-called winter variant, which means the excavation of the construction cave in November, which means, of course, the building permit during the summer, perhaps in the early autumn. I'm afraid it won't work any sooner. I only ask for the context of understanding of this Decision in the event that it is adopted by accident.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u107	Finally, the Minister said what he thought of this decision in the event that it would happen to him. But I think the conclusion is really very serious. The explanation given in the original decision is also very thorough. I would like to point out that the Minister gave an order to start the works last October without a programme of investments in state, local and water infrastructure and that the investment programme has not yet been confirmed. In the Ministry's explanation of the state of the investment we received on the Infrastructure Committee, it is clear that the documentation is not in fact yet. However, it says that there is documentation to obtain a building permit for a building pit. And that part refers to it. Of course, we would prejudge the conclusion of the National Assembly if we were to write anything in the future now, because of course it is an investor's matter. However, if this decision is adopted by the National Assembly, it will send the government to consider how to start the construction of the power plants as quickly as possible and, if necessary, to change the timetable. There is no other obligation than to want the law or the very construction of the Sava power plants to start as quickly as possible or to continue the preparatory work in implementation. I believe that we are not moving the road for free, that we have not moved people for free, and that this building will be glass and, of course, the building pit can also be implemented when permits are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u109	The construction works project has not yet been designed for the energy part of the building, unfortunately. Also because the concessionaire has not put enough effort into this. Well, when it is done, of course, under other conditions that I mentioned earlier, as far as the content of the concession contract or the adequacy of the content of the concession contract is concerned, it will be ripe only for consideration. Not right now. I would like to stress once again that the preparatory works are running smoothly, that they have been granted a building permit, i.e. to move the road and the gas pipeline, and for everything else the building permit will be when the relevant documentation is prepared. In this context, I understand this conclusion. However, in the event of an accident, if anyone understands that this decision is based on an explanation of the original decision which has now been withdrawn, I must say, colleague Auschwitz, and then of course I should object to it. But I understood that this explanation, which is here, is written, not the one to the original, now withdrawn conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I hope that I have been clear, debated and we will decide on an amended additional decision, which is not in the amendment review and has also been explained by Mr Ašič. Since no one wants to discuss it any more, we will vote on the proposal for an additional decision, Mr Auschwitz. We're voting. There are 55 of us present. 20 votes to 21. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision has not been adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I am also putting forward a proposal for an additional decision proposed by Mr Kelemina Branko, and we also have him on the bench, not in the review. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u111	Just for a little while. Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the previous amendments have not been adopted, there is now some slight form of government commitment to do something on this national programme of environmental protection and also on other documents, and that it will only be a little more urgent to make the Sava River, at least to some extent better cleansed than it has been so far. Because if it remains as it is now that nothing will be done, then certainly in Posavje or in general, we will not be happy that they appear, as has already been said, a new cemeteries in Slovenia. I'm sure we don't want that. I hope that this, the kinder form of this proposal for a decision will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u113	Now it's the first time I've seen this conclusion. The National Assembly proposes to the Government to adopt a programme and measures to clean up the Sava River and so on before the granting of the operating permit for the Bosniak hydropower plant, which is expected to be in 2006. The government has, of course, adopted this programme and measures long ago. I don't know how to understand that. If I understand well, that's fine. Maybe it's a somewhat vague conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an additional decision by Mr Kelemina. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. The vote was 23 to 21. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposal for an additional decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the government and our representatives of the secretariat very much for their cooperation. And as foretold, we return to 8. It's a day's work. In the third reading, we suspended the consideration of this point in order to allow qualified applicants to prepare amendments in the third reading. I take it we have an amendment in third reading. You've got them on the bench. This is, of course, a proposal for a law on postal services, 8th item of the agenda. I shall first put the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 4 into the debate and decision. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. So, as we expected, of course, the government, although yesterday the amendment with 25 votes "for" and 23 "against" was adopted and was the fourth paragraph of Article 4, is now returning the original text with its amendment. However, in Novi Slovenija we are convinced that it is already stipulated in Article 3 that the Minister prescribes more detailed conditions for postal services, and therefore we do not think it necessary for the Agency to adopt and decide by means of its act how postal services would actually be carried out in geographically threatened areas. We believe that, as the law says, it is written to the detriment of those areas that are socially, demographically weak and we would rather see that this responsibility be taken over by the Ministry, not to transfer it to the agency. We will vote against this amendment to Article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 4. Let's vote! The first vote on the amendment was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention again. In the context of this third reading, we need to vote on the four amendments that have come from qualified applicants. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment of the Government to Article 4. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 35 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 27. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm concluding the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 39 votes against one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 33. First, we will vote on the amendment to the 33rd Article, the draft of which is the LDS Parliamentary Club, and on the amendment to the 33rd Article of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision, first of all on the amendment to the amendment to Article 33. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 38 votes against one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the Government's amendment to Article 33. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 37 votes against 5. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the representative of the Secretariat if, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law has been violated. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. That way we can move on to a decision on the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 47 votes against one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law is fully adopted I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the government very much, and also the representatives of the secretariat. Thank you very much. In accordance with the agreement, we are moving to 5. Period of the day - Another defends the bill of public servants. Since the mother's working body was able to make its decision on all the amendments at 9:00 a.m. in the morning, I would hope to propose to honourable Members and Members that, given that a great consensus has been reached in this law and in the course of these amendments in the home working body and that they are more than editorial amendments, it would be good - but of course, on 13 pages in the amendment review - to join forces and vote on these amendments, because it is extremely important because we have decided that this is one of those laws that we would like to deal with in the package then in the May session, that is to say in the third reading. We are therefore moving on to a second reading, which is to deal with and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on amendments and articles, it shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We will vote on this proposal. Let's vote! Let's vote on the motion for a decision! The first vote on the proposal was not successful. I'd like to invite my colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the decision on amendments in the second reading on the 13 pages of the amendment review, which are a genuine vote will be delayed, but this is the result of the work already done in the framework of the working body and more than the editorial amendments that have reached a high level of consensus within the home working body. [[...]] This is the second time we have voted on the proposal for a decision, as I have presented it. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We would therefore go to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. Today you received on the bench a review of the amendments of 25.4.2002. I shall put to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to Article 1. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. I'd like to ask for your attention again. There's a lot of amendments. Secondly, we vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 1. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 39 votes against none. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we shall secondly vote on the whole Article. We're voting. The second vote was not successful either. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u117	Can I say something? Please, if you are so kind - see, some of our colleagues arrived before 8:00 and will be home after 10:00 for the work of the committee. The vast majority of our colleagues are very busy, some are not here now, and it would not be right for the public to get the impression that no one in this house is working because that is not true. Look, if we're tired, if we take fifteen minutes off, it's better than taking vacations in the day, and we're giving an impression that the National Assembly is not being concluded. If we are tired, fifteen minutes of rest, we meet and finish until 6 p.m.; at 6 p.m., the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy begins to prepare a point for tomorrow. Some colleagues, these in 20, will be here by 10:00 p.m. Please, let's make a deal. If you suggest, we take a fifteen-minute break and then get back together. I now propose that we meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The President of the National Assembly, Mr. Pahor, invites the leaders of the parliamentary groups to room 217. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we continue at 4 p.m. Dearly respected, at 4 p.m. we are voting on Article 1 in full.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u119	Your Honor! Please come to the hall, because we will continue to vote on the amendments to the bill on civil servants. We agreed that the vote would be at 4 p.m. It's two minutes later, so I'm asking you to come to the gym again. As I have already explained before the interruption, please, before we move on to the third vote on Article 1 in full, I give the floor to Mr President. Here you go. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u120	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Look, these periodic problems of indiscretion are not usually due to some carelessness, but due to the overoccupation of the National Assembly. I think it is our joint task and responsibility to try to do our best to fulfil the responsibilities we have. I propose that as far as today's work is concerned, this is the conclusion of the meeting, because tomorrow we begin with an extraordinary session to try to make the law on civil servants. This means that we are as disciplined as possible present. If there is currently a problem with the quorum, we are trying to gather ourselves and to bring the law under the roof today, because at 6 p.m. a committee will start to prepare for tomorrow such a difficult or difficult law as the law on the public sector wage system. I'm asking for the collegiality we agreed on at the consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have been to a 15-minute discussion and I do not think it is appropriate to debate now on the draft law that we have before us. This is the third time we have voted on Article 1 in full. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 42 votes against 5. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 12 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u122	I'm going to abuse a little bit, and it'll only be noticeable in the end, so you can't take my word first. I will support this amendment to this Article 12 proposed by the Committee, and I propose that you do so to others. I also suggest that you support me in supporting all the amendments of the committee. But you do have them in the review that came to the table today. That'll be the easiest thing to do. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment of the board. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 16 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us also vote on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 57 of us present. It was 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new Article 16a. The amendment shall be proposed by the delegation of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Lavrinz, please. Then Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u124	Otherwise, I'd give my colleague Juban a head start. In fact, at the time that they received this table review of the amendments, some expressed concern or concern about such an amendment. And of course, this concern stems from the following. They say that the amendment too widely allows the interpretation of this article and thus prevents in all bilingual areas the employment of people who know only their mother tongue. That is why, while this second reading is on the table, I think that we are trying to draw the attention of the proposaler to this provision and because I already know from the debate in the Committee that there will be some further improvement in the text in this introductory chapter, because, in fact, this is all just the case, I would point out this in particular because I say that I do not force myself to do so when I begin this discussion, I do not force people living in such an area to appear as some kind of nationalists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Perhaps it would suggest first hearing the intention of the applicants to achieve what they want to achieve with this amendment. I was kind of pleased when the amendment was withdrawn with some notice, but then I saw that it was yesterday's amendment talking about organs, and this new one was talking about systematized jobs. And, of course, if we look at practical cases, one is on the Coast, the other is on our end, in Prekmurje, where we deal with two administrative units, this is Lendava and Murska Sobota, or these amendments mean that in jobs in these administrative units, maybe in municipalities where Hungarian nationalities live, in all institutions of the system, let's say in the police somewhere else, employees should control both languages. Then we also have quoted in a chapter that speaks of a transitional period, by which time people who are employed should obtain additional knowledge that is required, and when we come to this period, things could become unpleasant if we understand this way, which would greatly interfere with the required conditions of education and language in these jobs. So the question is whether in administrative units people - now I'm going to talk about approximate numbers - say, the administrative unit Murska Sobota, which employs 100 people, 30, 40 meet with members of the nationalities who are looking for any services in the administrative unit that - I don't know, Mrs. Pozsonec - 1,500 and are surely meeting occasionally with most of these employees, or that means that this additional education of the Hungarian language is required - yes, "on the basis of the law". What does "on the basis of the law" mean, because the frequent interpretation of the law can be understood in one way or another, and it is good to clarify the matter before adopting or deciding on these requirements so that we do not vote on a solution that may also be unpleasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you, Comrade Juban. Comrade Battelli, his colleague Pozsoncheva - did I see it right? Comrade Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u128	First of all, I would like to stress the bizarre nature of the situation in which Members elected by members of national communities must propose a solution in a system law such as this. Because the point of this institution is not that we are unionists of the rights of national communities, but it is through us that national communities participate in decisions that we are all responsible together as citizens or in front of the people, essentially the whole country. The package of laws ahead of us is actually a series of systemic laws, including the one about wages, which represents a profound reform of the functioning of the country - the shortest said. This means that these laws establish a relationship with all the inhabitants of this country, namely, the State to every resident. The dilemma that stood before us was the next. How can such important laws cover existing regulation and legislation in this field? How can such important laws ensure the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the 11th, 64th and many other articles relating to the exercise of human rights in that country? How do I keep the provisions that have been applicable under this regime for many decades, for example, the Law on Administrative Procedure, the Law on Courts, the Law on Judicial Service, the Law on Education and so on? The dilemmas placed here in the way they were laid mean that there is a lack of awareness, there is some lack of awareness that this country has been created and is regulated in a certain way. The way in which this topic is addressed, which is opened by this new Article 16a, which, inter alia, states to officials in Article 78 of the same Act and where the Shadowman has not shaved, as far as the speeches on officials are concerned; thus, the way in which it is approached means that international agreements must be repealed, the independent documents should be amended, the constitution changed in many ways and all the legislation that has been in place for decades and all legislation on these points that we have adopted so far. The answer to Mr Juban's question is in the preamble that I have given so far. In particular - no, this does not mean that everyone will have to know the language of the national community and so on, but some do. A judge who can handle the proceedings in the language of the national community will also receive an allowance for this. If there is no judge who can handle the proceedings in the language of the national community, he will not receive this supplement, but this country must provide an interpreter. Because it's no different. We cannot assume that someone has the right to speak his own language in relation to the state administration and then not equip this state administration to do so. How can this be achieved in a different way than that? Of course, this is where the law tells us what profiles are. The Notariat Act explicitly, explicitly obliges notaries to equip themselves in a way that, say, will and so forth can be written in the mother tongue of a member of the national community. In short, any idea that would improve this text is welcome, but I'm putting these dilemmas in front of all of you. Certain people working in the public sector in national mixed areas must be qualified to do their work in the language of the national community. They must be equipped to understand it, they must be equipped to respond in this language. That's right. This is Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen. Slovenia is not something else, and it is Slovenia. Twelve years we've been doing this in Parliament, twelve years! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Really, we've been repeating for 12 years, and I feel like we've been losing these standards for 40 years. That's not what it looks like in practice. We have bilingual education for 40 years, so the generations have both languages. Without the knowledge of the language of nationality, I do not know how we can implement that article of the Constitution, which speaks of the fact that both languages are equivalent in the national mixed area. If we locate the language of nationality only in the family, then we will get the kitchen language and the language will never be the official language. The language has no social validity and I don't think we can rush to assimilation any more than this. This system law or this article actually implements the article of the Constitution mentioned by Mr Battelli. I don't think you can run a bilingual business without language skills. And, as I say, in practice, it doesn't look like anyone speaking Hungarian in a room administrative unit. That's not true. But it is extremely pleasant if, in the worst cases, a doctor can speak to patients in his mother tongue at the worst possible time. Also, a police officer in an accident speaks to participants in an accident in the language of nationality. I believe that both languages are equivalent, in fact without this provision, without this amendment, it is not feasible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. This amendment has been surprised by the bill's proposal, and we must admit that. It is assessed primarily as an amendment that introduces considerable asymmetry into the first part of the law. In fact, remember that the first part of the law governing the whole public sector contains the fights of 20 articles, which are not particularly specific, which do not talk about the conditions for jobs and other specific issues, because these issues, specific issues, are, of course, carefully regulated throughout the second part of the law for state authorities and local authorities. Only for this reason is this amendment difficult to accept. Only for that reason. However, the Internal Policy Committee has shown that some issues can still be raised in the first part of the law and, although it is unusual to hear it, there is one argument that this amendment is supported in order to technically open an article which will allow us to introduce, for example, into the first part of the law, a conflict of interest issue on the committee or something else in the third reading. Now let me focus this debate a little bit on the use of the official language. However, only the official language in the official bodies, in the courts and in other state bodies was spoken. So we're talking about the official language in the administration or more broadly, in the state authorities and local authorities. It is quite clear that bilingual areas or, more broadly, bilingual authorities need to ensure bilingualism. However, this does not mean that all jobs must be subject to Italian or Hungarian knowledge. With appropriate organisational solutions, it is necessary to ensure that customers are able to operate with these authorities in Italy or Hungary, depending on the frequency at which such parties appear - over a longer period of time. We see the solution in the article that was already discussed in 78. We believe that this 78th Article is entirely sufficient and that it is perfectly clear from Article 78 that the condition of the Italian or Hungarian language is placed on official posts, i.e. where it communicates with the parties. And also there, of course, only for those jobs where this is necessary, but not for all jobs in administrative bodies. So once again, although it's a little paradoxical. The content of this article is inappropriate because it is asymmetric because it is largely part of the sectoral laws in the field of education, health care and so on. So we don't contradict the content itself. We oppose the asymmetry created by this and, in fact, if this article were supported, we would probably use it for another content in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please, then Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u134	I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u136	Article 78 speaks only of officials, because that is the problem. That's the problem. He's not hiring any other public servants. You have a list attached to the law of what this law covers. Area laws. Sectoral laws will be brought into line with this law sooner or later. What has not already been removed from existing legislation by this law So I also ask the government to consider whether or not this law is the one who is basically required to operationalise constitutional provisions in this area. In my opinion, yes. In short, it's not just the officers. If we want to, I repeat, keep what is at stake at this point, and not reform as basic matters as they are. And if we don't intend to play regulation through the implementation of the legislation. Asimitry. We have x consulting capacity in this house. At this point, I have to trust the legal services, the secretariat, legal advice in the parliamentary group, and so on, which they have said is possible to do a new article on this matter as referred to in Article 16a. So do I have to think that there's some conspiracy going on where someone's telling me to do stupid things so that it's rejected, or what? I mean, of course it's not like that. Why didn't the government do it in the first place, but it's the second question. I'm not criticizing her directly, but still! If this is such a profound system law, this issue must be resolved because we have such a constitution. Since this country is so made, so born, and if we want it differently, then there is something else that needs to be changed. At this point, no one can tell me what, for example, will happen to the law on salaries in education, given what we will accept tomorrow. Yeah, but this has something to do with this law. I need to know which profiles have to be paid, and so much for doing certain things and so on. And if I don't have the support here, then I won't have the support of this other law - I mean, me as the legislator. And this matter needs to be tackled systematically, just as these laws deal systematically with the situation of the one or the one working in the public sector in general. The public sector knows exactly what it is. It is not just the state administration and the administration of local communities, but the public sector is a lot, all that is not private, but.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs Possonec first, then Mr Anderlich and Mr Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'm surprised to see the Secretary of State talking about asymmetry. It is understandable that in a place where the language of nationality is also spoken in addition to the official language, it is logical that knowledge of the language is also a condition, that is logical. But then I don't see that asymmetry. But not all factors are officials, such as doctors, nurses. You know what can come from the fact that the patient does not understand what the doctor tells him. The official language isn't just in the offices. I don't know, this article guarantees constitutionality.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u140	I must say that there is a rather unpleasant situation in which the representatives of minorities are trying to make some effort here to prove that something, which is a constitutional norm, is something that is, in itself, conditionally necessary to confirm this in particular. I do not know why this debate is necessary at all, given that the Committee has supported this, that there has been a broad debate there, and it seems almost necessary for us to accept it. Whether the government will use it, abuse it or whatever it is, in the third reading for something else, we will see what it brings. However, if there is any possibility that this law could be interpreted differently than that set out in this amendment, that for jobs where this is prescribed by law, these conditions must be described, then of course this must be included in this law. You have the opportunity to study this until the third reading. If you think it's enough in sectoral laws, it'll be in the field laws. Whether to talk about this issue in this law or not, I think it is out of place and I support the opinion of the Committee, and I think it is precisely because of all these warnings that we need to clarify by the third reading what this is really about. However, I firmly believe that it is not about spreading unconstitutional rights, not some kind of marriage, which, in my view, would not have been any more than that, things are in themselves supposed to have to be regulated in individual regulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Comrade Battelli, Mrs. Possons, I am convinced that my concerns have been in place. And that's exactly what I doubt could be required. I don't think that's good. Even members of the nation, living there, I don't think that's what they want. Look, this could also result in someone in these municipalities not being able to run for mayor. If we refer to article 11 of the Constitution, which states that the official language of Slovenia is Slovenian, the official language of the municipalities where these communities live is also Italian and Hungarian. This is fine with me and to keep things going in a way that I think is appropriate so far. I do not know of any instance that on the official Murska Sobota unit and on any of the municipalities where Hungarians live, communication or misunderstanding would be a problem. But if we put in a new arrangement, let's ask the question ahead. 90,000 inhabitants in about all two administrative units, where they live, I don't know exactly whether 7,000 Mrs. Possonec, correct me, in these two administrative units, members of the nationalities, is also a question of employment if it looks like it says here. Those who do not master the Hungarian language will not be able to work in certain jobs. I do not think that this is good, especially when we arrive at a time when these provisions will begin to be implemented, after a transitional period when what is required will be glassed. I'd be happy if we didn't support this supplement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, then Mrs. Possons.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u144	It is said that constitutionality guarantees the constitution. In the Slovenian National Party, we attach weight to this highest act of our country, which is determined by the quorum majority of the change, as well as other materials to change its elasticity. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we oppose the amendment signed by Mr Battelli and Mrs Possonce. In addition to the argument that the Constitution is over the law and thus binds its laws to it, it seems reasonable to point out that the amendment would also intervene in any way in the matter of employment or the elasticity of the market for the supply and demand of labour or the supply of employment. It would make sense, however, for both Mr Battelli and Mrs Possonce to withdraw and thus recognise the role of the Constitution in the legal or constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment, it is with the amendment tabled that you admit that you give no weight to the highest administrative act. We will not support the amendment in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs Possonceva, including the replica, then Mr Battelli, the replica, Mrs Potrate's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I would just like to alleviate these fears and phobias experienced by Mr Juban when we speak this word "nationality". I would remind him that he was also elected in the national field and sometimes asked for the votes of this nation. But it doesn't matter. What's important is that he knows very well that those 90,000 people are not going to learn Hungarian. He knows very well that on the administrative unit of Murska Sobota no one will be uncomfortable if he does not know the language of nationality, just as he knew when he was so afraid of bilingual cards. What happens if this marriage starts to live? Nothing. Everything will remain as it is now, because in fact it should be now. Well, there won't be any change. Don't worry. What Mr Pache said, however, is understandable, already coming from the party, that his position is so. That's understandable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u147	Thank you very much. First the replica of Mr. Battelli, then the replica of Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u148	Ignorance is not a sin in itself. I would like to teach Mr Pečet that some of his colleagues sitting here in this House have drafted the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr. Pache, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u150	Allow me to speak to Mrs. Possons first. Your Honor! Respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia - yes, you are right. The Slovenian national party considers this to be self-evident. And Mr. Battelli. Ignorance of law harms as well as constitutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I apologize first. Mr. Gasparini, you wanted to replicate. You have the upper hand, please. Then Mrs. Poxon.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Peche! What you've said is already said by Mr Battelli and Mrs Possonce, what this is about. I'd remind you of something you're probably saying. Mr. Pahor, our market Slovenian, when he comes to the marketing congregation, then he makes a whole hall because he cannot get a document in Slovenian, nor can he speak. You, as a member of the minority, then make it impossible for me to go to the municipality in Isolo and speak Italian to get the documents. It's even bigger than that. Look what's going on. It says on the door in Italian, because you know that we have three, on our ID card in Slovenian, in English, we also have Italian. The office door says Italian, Slovenian. There's an official sitting in there who doesn't know anything about Italian. That's where it has to be. And another thing Mrs. Possonchev says is true. Nothing's gonna change. In Isolah, you get, you speak, you get documents in Italian, in Slovenian as you wish. You go to the hospital, like a regional hospital, which is not just a national mixed area, you can also speak Italian, you get a document in Italian if you want. What did we do in the hospital? We simply had an Italian course and received, as Battelli had said before, also 3 percent of the allowance on salary, the ones who completed the course. And now it's Italian, they use it. Why wouldn't I?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Possonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I, too, wanted to remind Mr Pečet that it probably hurts him, because it hurts me, too, when we hear that relatives there in Venice and around Trieste cannot speak their own language. And we're insulted. I think otherwise it's the same. Officials need to know the language, not the whole palette. Then how do you, Mr Secretary of State, think, in a nursing home? There's no need to know Hungarian. It is logical, however, that both languages should be known throughout public life to those in such a position. And more specifically, it is not possible to say that in those jobs where it is necessary to know the official language, there is also a requirement for language knowledge. Actually, one sentence comes from another.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I think there's two more replicas. Mr. Juban. Mr. Marshich, the replica? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. A replica, Mr. Kremjar, or a debate? It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I don't know, those of you who listen to me may have found that I've been trying all the time to ask the questions I've asked with caution. As a result, what does this provision mean, this addition to the law? At no time do I have any phobia, and at no extremes before Hungarian nationality. I'm a Hungarian. You can judge by your name and surname. And I feel very good anywhere in Prekmurje, especially where there are members of this nationality. Because I'm close to everything that's in there. I'm trying not to narrow it down to any inappropriate discussion, anyone who would hurt one side or the other. What I'm asking is that we don't have to deal with unpleasant situations afterwards. On the one hand, it is ensured that nothing will change. If that's true, then I even apologize for these questions, which may be inappropriate. It's okay and it's okay. On the other hand, we hear that in some national institutions or all of them, people should be much more than they have been so far to master the language of one nation or another. As a result, this means a subsequent intervention that those who are there will have to learn or that we will employ people who will master that language. That's an essential question. You probably all know that if this happened, then we could either switch, or we could learn more, and it would put in a mood among the people who live there. We will not feel this here in Parliament. And maybe one thing doesn't matter, and I don't care, for one thing or the other. And by no means, because politics is a story where emotion should not be to take my debate as such, but to find out exactly what that means. Since my colleagues prevent me from being later resolved in the regional laws, let's say local self-government, where it is said that it is necessary for a mayor who can run in a bilingual area to master two languages or not. But that's what you need to know. It's only about questions, not about phobia or anything like any other nationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I also have an announcement to make. First Mrs. Potrate, then Mr. Virant and Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would like to express my support for the amendment tabled by your distinguished colleague and colleague for a simple reason. In fact, in the Constitution and in a number of other laws, such as the State Administration Act, it is written that in Slovenia the official language is Slovenian, the dapa is also the official language of both national communities in the linguistically mixed territory. Because I still agree to the old Humbel thesis that the only real country, human language, is, I think, often when I speak and express my commitment and commitment to the Slovenian language, that they have the same right to do so among the members of the national communities. But nothing helps if we do so with a greater or lesser degree of emotionality, if the legislation does not carry out those procedures that enable this principle to be implemented. So I did not overlook the fact that there are two representative seats for both members of the national community in our National Assembly. But I have not yet experienced that any of the members of the national communities would exercise the right to speak in their own language. This may have to do with the need to provide for an official translator. There are situations in which, because of the nature of the situation in which a person finds himself, I am thinking of speaking situations, because of the situation in which he finds himself, he cannot make such an effort to switch from one language to another, so it is right to allow him to express himself in that language. The Law on State Administration states that the procedure runs in the language of a member of the national community, if required, and also in the following sequences, at the following stages, in the language in which the procedure was initiated. This leads me to believe, however, that it is also necessary to adopt a provision which will dictate or require that the official with whom the party comes in contact - forgive me now to use this term, the party to contact or to speak in contact - that this language can be mastered. I allow the possibility of imbalances as expressed by the Secretary of State, but the third reading will be considered if this is indeed an imbalance. However, I was also taught that minorities must be protected more than the majority protected if their level of equality is to be equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u160	The debate convinced me that given the weight, especially given the weight given to this amendment by the representatives of the national communities, this amendment is necessary, so that I am also withdrawing that asymmetricality of the law. The matter is so difficult, no matter what, I'd say formal asymmetry is in the first part of the law. At the same time, of course, it also ensures as much as I can, as much as I have the right to ensure on behalf of the government today, that this article is not misused for any other content. However, from the debate, I also dismissed the bill's obligation to add the article to the third reading in this sense, as we all understand: firstly, that it is an implementing provision relating to the provision of the Italian or Hungarian language where the law so requires, and to the extent that it provides for communication in that language, i.e. communication in that language between the body or the person of public law on the one hand and the parties on the other. Nobody understands this Article as meaning that the condition for all jobs in these bodies and institutions must also be the knowledge of the Italian or Hungarian language, but to the extent necessary to ensure bilinguality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Kremjar and Mr Mamić also took part in the debate. Then I think, according to all the explanations, we can move on to a decision. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u162	Thank you very much. It saddens me when we talk about things that should be self-conceived, for the debate can give a completely different color than it needs to be. That is why I think it would be good to conclude this debate slowly, because I am deeply convinced that no one wants to give this color that could come into an untapped ear and could be interpreted differently than it has been said. It seems important to me what the Secretary of State has just said, because he has also said and completed this amendment on the Internal Policy Committee. Otherwise, of course, the amendment is very clear, unequivocal and I think it is right to write it down and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you very much. And Mr. Mamić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u164	Thank you. At the beginning of this meeting, I asked the question of the use in bilingual areas. So I'm for consistency. It also follows that where bilinguality is, this should be taken into account by the Constitution as it should be. It doesn't say that the one who's going to be employed, that I don't know what kind of professional for Hungarian or Italian. Perhaps it would be enough for him to speak the language, and this is absolutely necessary. For example, at a nursing home, if an elderly person speaks poorly or is deaf or otherwise, it will help him much more if the person who is healing him, even in his mother tongue, and he is healing his wounds, I would say. I, with good faith, support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I think I can wrap this up. Mr. Spindler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I am reporting because today I have a law on civil servants and actually our administrative unit, Ljutomer, belongs to the Mursophosian area. In fact, I wonder if then our losso-merician employees have the possibility of employment anywhere in the Mursophosian region. This is one of the following things. If I understand Dr. Virant's Secretary of State correctly, then I agree. I do not object to the fact that a certain number of employees are familiar with two languages, which is certainly necessary, and I support this in some way. However, I do not agree that this would be strictly stated that public servants need to know two languages, because there is really no Hungarian in our area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u168	Thank you. I would like to say on behalf of our Group of Members that we will support the amendment. We understand the interpretation of the Secretary of State and agree that it is likely somewhere else that this right or condition will be exercised. We believe, however, that it is the right thing to do in marriage, as it would also set an example for our neighbouring countries to do the same with Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u170	Look, I'm replicating simply because it seems to me that for some jobs it is necessary to have an appropriate education. If, at the same time, we are preparing to enter the European Union, we are talking about the fact that all of us will have to master two, if not three or four languages, in the same country in which we are, we see as a particular problem that someone operating in an area that is bilingual, or who, by working on his obligations, also covers this bilingual area, if we now find it problematic that someone there should also master the language of the national community, it does not seem convincing to me that we could not have this written down because he will not run for this job if he does not know the language. Otherwise, I would not like to remind you of what the language of the environment really means and what it means for someone who is taking up public service to be a representative of everyone who lives in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Two more replicas, Mr. Pache, then Mr. Tuckati. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u172	According to our assessment, it would be reasonable to read the proposal for a new Article 16a, for the jobs of public servants, which means that we will lay the groundwork for all employees within these services to communicate in all three of these languages. So, in constitutional provisions for both the ethnic minority and the Slovenian language. It would be reasonable to take into account the proposal made by the Secretary of State for the third reading that, if it already wishes to accede to the provision of a constitutional standard, which, in our belief, exists only to certain staff members on those tasks, but not to all. We therefore oppose this proposal in the Slovenian national party. Existing jobs are one thing; the proposal for new jobs is another. Set a condition for a change, it seems pointless to us at this point; then set up some functions where bilingual communication with customers will take place, not all. We oppose this in the Slovenian national party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, the replica, then Mrs. Simsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u174	Very briefly, I'd like to tell you a little medical experience. It's very difficult for these places to get a doctor who can speak Hungarian as well. If we insist on the need to know Hungarian as well, the provision of personnel needs in Prekmurje would be even more difficult than it is now. We had a problem because a new law on medical service is being prepared that requires this knowledge, and I must say that so far this provision has not been taken into account, because if taken into account, it would only be Prekmurje in half without doctors. In my lesson, last year - although I do not have a European court case here, last autumn, the European Court of Justice ruled in a similar case that there is no need for citizens of the European Community to know the language of minorities in the area of the European Community if they work in that area. So it was a judgment, and it seems that this judicata will also declare further. That's why we're thinking a little differently in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs Pozsonec, I'm sorry, she has a replica of Mrs Danica Simšič first, then you, Mrs Pozsončeva. Mrs Simsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u176	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that I was amazed at the State Secretary's surprise at this amendment. Then I was happy to hear his interpretation and his view that he agreed that this amendment should be supported. Perhaps, if Mr State Secretary were not so strange at first, there would be no debate in my view. I think it is right that we read the amendment proposal we have and that we hear each other well. It only says here that for the jobs of public servants who are required by law, a provision in the already existing law that we already have in this country, as an official language, also the language of the national community, is also defined as a condition for the knowledge of that language. So if that's what some laws already require. It's not a new one, it's just a reflection of the current state. I am not going for a complete extension of rights, it is only that this coexistence continues, and this life continues in bilingual territories. That is all I wanted to point out, and I agree with the proposal that the Government should consider including this in the third reading and that this is, indeed unnecessary, the end of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pozsoncheva, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I appreciate Mr Cuckati's concern about the language of doctors and the difficulty of getting doctors. I just tell him that at present three young doctors have not received a job in our field, they have completed studies in Hungary, Slovenian citizens, Slovenian high school have finished here, the university in Hungary and three have not received a job with us. They're in Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I think that we can conclude the debate on this amendment and move to a vote. We therefore vote on the amendment for the new Article 16a. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 41 votes against 6. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article 16a have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 33 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. He voted 42 against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 35 and the amendment of the group of Members supported by the parent working body. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 47 of us present. He voted 40 against no one. The vote was 40.) [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 36 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 42 and the two amendments to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 47 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 47 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. I think it's just a lack of attention, so I'm asking for your attention. We decide the second time on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 56 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 62 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're still deciding on the article. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 63 and the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 66 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote! The first vote was not successful. I ask for your full attention again on this article. Second, let us vote on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the 70th Article and amendment of the Committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Wait a minute! Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. The vote is 39 to 1. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 70 is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 72 and the two amendments, which are exactly the same. If an amendment under number 1 is adopted, we can actually vote on the amendment - there are two candidates, a government and a group of Members. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 72 as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 78 and the two amendments that are being excluded. If an amendment under number 1 is adopted, there is no need to vote on the amendment under number 2. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 45 votes against one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 80 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 82 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 99 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. It's 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote! The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. There's enough of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention again. Second, let us vote on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. He voted 40 against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 99 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and deciding on the two amendments to Articles 101, 113, 114 and 118, with a footnote, if the amendment is adopted under 1, there is no need for an identical amendment. [[...]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the 101st article as a whole. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 101 has been fully adopted. We are still voting on Article 113 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We still vote on Article 114 in its entirety. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 114 is also fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 112 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. Let's vote! There are 47 of us present, 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 in attendance, 40 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment for a new 115.a. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 52 in attendance, 42 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new article have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 117 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 49 in attendance, 44 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 in attendance, 42 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 118 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 in attendance, 42 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 in attendance, 45 in favour, one in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 121 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 in attendance, 45 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. The first vote on the article has not been fully successful, again I ask for a little attention. Secondly, we will decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 52 in attendance, 43 in favour, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 124 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 53 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 126 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Just a minute. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 134 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 137 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 139 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We're moving on to debate and decision-making, Your Honor. Allow me. [[...]] I got an amendment on the bench that Mr. Lavrinc would like to explain. Here you go. If you will allow me, Mr Lavrinc, given that the amendment has been tabled and that we are not in the framework of a rapid procedure, to read it and ask Members and Members if they are satisfied that it is only at my table or if they may request a copy. Your Honor! This is an amendment to Article 166, which reads as follows: In the third paragraph of Article 166, the word "presidency" is replaced by the word "minister responsible for administration". In the fifth paragraph, a new sentence is added, which reads: "The appeal shall be decided by the Commission referred to in Article 34, paragraph 1, of this Law. In their explanation, the proponents say that the first part is editorial and removes the confusion in the text "the power to appoint an examination committee for the review of the re-examination examination must be given by the Minister responsible for the administration and not by the chairman of the body in which the candidate is employed". The second part of the amendment shall be determined by the body which decides on the appeal against the decision taken after the evaluation test. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u180	There's no need. Just give the Secretary of State a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u182	This amendment improves the legal text and is logical. The point is that in the event that the candidate fails a professional examination when he receives a negative assessment, he has the right to object. The opposition shall be decided by the Commission and it is most logical that this committee shall be appointed by the Minister responsible for the administration. The appeal against this decision shall be decided by the known Board of Appeal referred to in Article 25. It's just an appellate body.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you very much. If you agree, you would also vote on the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 166. Let's vote! There are 49 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 166 has been adopted. We decide on Article 166 as a whole. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 39 votes against one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. The same parliamentary group also proposes an amendment to Article 167, in the following text: 'The words'special' shall be deleted in the first paragraph of Article 167'. The amendment is also an editorial amendment, which mistakenly deletes the word'special'; the bill introduces - no specific professional examination is introduced, so such formulation could in practice introduce ambiguity. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u184	A useful amendment, I'd say, all for a better text of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 167. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 42 votes against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 40 votes against one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are back to the review of the amendments, which I am putting to the debate and decision Article 177 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 181 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 39 votes against none. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 39 votes against no one. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 182 and the amendment to this Article. This is already linked to the adopted amendment to the previous article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! The first vote was not successful. I'm asking for your attention again. Let's vote on the amendment next time. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and thus the article is deleted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 187 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 188 and the two amendments to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u186	At this rush, it can happen that someone does not pay attention. I'm not going to support the first amendment and invite everyone else, and the second, because that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u187	Let us vote on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. They voted 4 to 45. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 189 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 40 votes against one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 193 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 196 and two amendments. The amendment under number 1 does not support the mother's working body and the amendment under number is supported. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to an amendment decision under number one. We're voting. There are 49 of us present. Four votes against 42. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. 37 votes against 4. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment under number two has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 41 votes against one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the 202nd Article, where there are two amendments, under number 1 is the amendment for which withdrawal is foreseen and under number 2 is the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. Amendment number one has been withdrawn, so we decide on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 37 votes against none. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 37 votes against none. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to the decision on the remaining articles. We're voting. The first vote on the remaining articles was not successful. I'd like some more attention, please. There's enough of us in the hall. Secondly, we decide on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We're moving on to the title debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. The first vote on the title of the law due to lack of attention has not been successful. I'm asking for a little more cooperation. This is the second time we've voted on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 53 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I am also putting to the debate the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? As no, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The home labour body shall also propose to the national assembly to adopt the following decision: The National Assembly shall carry out a third examination of the draft law in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Who wants to discuss the proposal for a decision of the parent working body? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Mr. Sculpture. I'm calling off the vote. Here's a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u188	Of course, I understand this decision, but I ask whether it is rational that the State Assembly, which is involved in these cross-cutting procedures, adopts such decisions, with three-quarters of the points unfinished. This simply means essentially not having real control over what is happening in this congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Allow me an explanation, Mr. Scholch. In the process of adapting to the European package of legislation in this part, we are late, and therefore, under the guidance of Mr Lavrinc, the mother labour body has adopted such a procedure, and in the case of these laws a procedure has been adopted to be considered in the package. Since the National Assembly has adopted such a decision for the other three laws which have drawn up this package, I propose that we also adopt it under this law, in view of the clarifications given by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Lavrinc. If anyone does not wish to discuss this further, I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision presented. We're voting. There's 48, 34 for and three for. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against three.]] I note that we have adopted this proposal for a decision and have thus concluded this point. I suggest we go to 14. POINT and this is the last thing we will do in the framework of this meeting of the National Assembly, this is a proposal for a law on the registration of civil rights. We don't have a lot of amendments on this. First, I'll ask the government if he wants a word. He doesn't want to. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Internal Policy. President, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Representative of the Secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. We have four pages of the amendment. May I have your attention, please? First of all, I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, we discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed conclusions will be adopted if at least one third of those present oppose them. We vote in favour of this procedural proposal. We are voting in favour of a procedural proposal, please. Peace in the hall! Thank you very much. There's 49, 45 for, two for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments. You have a review. Let's go to the second article first. We have an amendment tabled for the Internal Policy Committee. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we'll make a decision. We decide on an amendment under order number one of the Internal Policy Committees to Article 2. We're voting. Peace in the hall. There are 46 in attendance, 42 in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] We are voting on the whole article. Please, we are voting on the whole article. I can please, because I can see that there are some consultations in the hall, I can ask my colleagues to sit in their seats. We don't have much work to do anymore, and I'm sure by 6 p.m., we're just gonna need a little focus. We are re-declaring the whole article. This is the second section of the law on registering electoral law. Please. Please, if you'll excuse me, this is section 2 of the Act. Present 47, 43 for, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment and article have been adopted. We have tabled an amendment to Article 4 of the Internal Policy Committee. This amendment is linked to the amendment referred to in point 1 of Article 7. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I shall put the amendment under order number 1 to Article 4 to the vote. Let's vote! 49 present. 44 for, no one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us also vote on the whole article. Let's vote, please! It's about Article 4. Once again, it will be necessary to determine the full scope of the Article. Please! I'm gonna ask my colleagues and colleagues again. It's section 4 of the law. Please, please, please, please, please, Just a minute! There's enough of us in the hall. I think the concentration's a little off. This marriage is important because of the deadlines. It's an election. That's why I'm asking you to be so kind. This is also the last thing we have to do in the context of this meeting. I'd like to talk about Article 4 again, please! [[...]] My friend Kelemin, if I may ask you in person. Okay. Let us vote on the text of Article 4. Please! 48 present. 41 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. The Internal Policy Committee shall also make an amendment to Article 7. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 7 of the law. Peace in the hall! Let's vote! 46 present. 38 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us vote on the text of Article 7 in its entirety. Please. However, I ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to inform the colleagues who are still present in the lobby that they will come to the hall because we are on the verge of a conclusion. Please call your colleagues in the lobby. I think we've had enough of this. Please vote again on the text7. in full. Please, let's vote! Let us vote in full in the text of Article 7. Please! Article 7 as a whole. 49 present. 42 for, no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. The Government is proposing an amendment to the 10th Article. Anybody want a word? Nobody. Then we will vote on the amendment to Article 10. Let's vote! 49 present. 42 for, no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The whole article. It's about Article 10. Let's vote! 51 present. 47 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 15 of the Government. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 15 of the bill. We're voting, please. 48 in attendance, 43 in, no in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the whole article. 49 present, 41 for, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving to the back of the exam, to the third. We have an amendment to Article 26. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 26. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the amendment to Article 26. He did not receive the required majority, so we are voting on the whole article. We are now voting on the whole article. Order! We are voting on the whole article. 48 in attendance, 43 in, one in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I'm guessing we've accepted the article. By the 28th, 30th and 31st Articles, the Government is proposing an amendment, under order number one, we have it under review. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're voting on the amendment. Order! We're voting on the amendment. 49 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment. We are voting on Article 28 as a whole. 49 present, 41 for, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing we've accepted these articles. As of the 30th Article, we have an amendment to the Internal Policy Committee. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 30. 47 in attendance, 40 in, no in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment. We are now voting on the whole article. It's about Article 30. I'm asking for peace. 46 present, 37 for, none against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 30 is fully adopted. Article 31, this is the last article we have on page 3 of the review. An amendment has been tabled with him. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. This is an amendment under order number 1 to Article 31. I will once again put the amendment under order number 1 to article 31 to the vote. A little peace! Please, amendment number 1 to article 31. Please vote. 48 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment. We are now voting on the whole article. Article 51 as a whole. Let's vote! 52 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this article has been adopted. On the back of our review, we have three amendments and three articles. Amendment to Article 38 first. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I shall put to the vote an amendment under order number one. Let's vote! 50 present. 44 for, no one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The article is now fully in the vote. It's Article 38. Let's vote! 49 present. 42 for, no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] Let's go to Article 45 and to the government's amendment. Anybody want a word? Nobody. Let's vote! This is the last vote on the amendments. 54 present. 43 for, 1 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment. We are now voting on Article 45 as a whole. Let's vote! 54 present. 43 for, 1 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I'm guessing we've accepted the article. Now this is an amendment under order number one, for a new article 46a. Anybody want a word? My friend Kebrich wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm talking about our amendment to this article. We believe that it is justified and justified when we say that EU citizens will also have this right with us when we are in the European Union. Why would they have it with us sooner if our citizens didn't have it with them? I think this amendment is logical and you, colleagues and colleagues, please accept it to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u191	Please, the government. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u192	This amendment is unnecessary because it doesn't prejudge anything. The law on registering electoral rights is an implementing law. Under this law, voting rights shall be recorded if they exist. Whether someone has a right to vote or not or who has a right to vote, material electoral laws provide for, that is, the law on elections to the National Assembly, the law on local elections and so on, so there is no need for an article.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Let us vote on the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members. Let's vote! 53 present. Nine in, 37 in. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing that the amendment wasn't accepted. We are going to decide on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then let's vote on them. Let us vote on articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Peace in the hall! Something's wrong. Bo. Please. We're voting. We have two more votes. Could I have your attention, please? Just two more votes. Please, if he stays in his seats, because we have only two votes left. Once again, I propose to the vote that we decide on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Please. 47 present. 37 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the remaining articles are adopted and that we can move on to a decision on the title of the law. Nobody wants a word, so we'll decide on the title of the law. We're gonna have to do it again. Please take your seats. Once again, we decide on the title of the law. We decide on the title of the law. Please, if you vote, colleagues and colleagues. 51 present. 47 for, two for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] Please, a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u194	We propose a third reading under Rule 194(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u195	Good. This decision shall be put to the vote. Please, if you vote. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Then all we have is a conclusion. 54 present. 43 for, 5 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] For the third hearing, the Government should prepare a proposal for a law. Anybody want a word on that? [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote. This is the last vote. We vote that it is the responsibility of the government to prepare a law for third treatment and that the law will be under the roof. 50 present. 42 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before we go, we still have to decide to postpone the unfinished points. Before I put this to the vote, let me just say that in view of the circumstances in which we have done a great deal in these two weeks, given that we and we will have two extraordinary sessions, we have done a great deal of work. I note that the following items of agenda 11, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 33 and 34 have not been completed and, under the second paragraph of Article 73, I propose that you be held at one of the following meetings. Please, let's make a decision. Please, if you vote. Tomorrow at 9 a.m., I will consult with the leaders of the parliamentary groups on how we will do this. 47 present. 38 for, 4 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that we have also accepted this and I hereby conclude this meeting. Thank you all very much for your cooperation. My friend Lavrinc is calling for new obligations. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u196	And I'd ask for this, and the animals take that much rest every now and then. I suggest we begin session 15 in six hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u197	15 after 6 p.m., internal policy committee meeting. Thank you very much. Have a nice night.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u198	Then there's no meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u199	Yes, it's an extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-25-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u200	Thank you very much.
