ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u1	We will proceed with the suspension of the 13th session. I would ask you to put your cards in the voting apparatus, so we can know roughly when the National Assembly will be decided so that we can begin our decision-making. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, a nice greeting to all! I begin the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Before I determine the presence in the Chamber, I would like to inform you which colleagues and colleagues are unable to participate in the sitting for the reasons explained today. These are: colleague Delak, Petan, Pukšič, Zamernik, Vizjak, Kavtičnik, Kopushar, Kontič, Jelinčič, colleague of Possonec, colleague of Potrata, colleagues of Lavrinc, Rupar, Juban, Marshič and Partljič. Please press the "quorum" button to determine the presence in the hall. We're in the middle of finding out who's in the hall. I'm gonna have to ask my colleagues and colleagues again for attention. Before that, I'll wait a few seconds for those in the lobby to be invited back to the hall. Please take your seats and insert your cards. I'll wait a few more seconds, and then I'll rediscover the presence. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. 49 Members and Members are present in the Chamber; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I also invited representatives of the government, the minister and his colleagues to continue the meeting. Today's continuation of the 13th session will begin with the consideration of the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the continuation of the procedure under Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and for the establishment of their areas. Then the assembly will move on to the treatment of 1.b of the point and in order to proceed. So we're going to break down the 1st A-point of the day, that's to defend the continuation of the 13th procedure. AND 14. Article of the Act on the procedure for the establishment of municipalities and the determination of their areas. We are continuing the discussion by deciding on the Government's proposed harmonisation amendments. I ask my colleague, Mr Podobnik, whether he wishes to speak on behalf of the Group of Members. Please. After the vacation you requested at the time, would you like to explain your position before making a decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you, President, for your word. The vacation was quite a long time, and we had enough time to consult. Well, a little joke. In the parliamentary group this morning, in the framework of the regular meeting of the parliamentary group, we once again assessed the rather distressing situation in which the national assembly took place under the procedure, particularly under the procedure of this item on the agenda. Our decision will be such that it will in no way prevent the decision-making of the national assembly. That's what most people say will decide as well as they think it's right. In our Group of Members, however, we believe that this harmonisation amendment has been tabled in the wrong act. We simply reopened the conclusion as unnecessary. I don't want to completely "fresh" all the events of last week. In the Group of Members, we also believe that this decision will be taken by the Members and Members, if you vote on this Government's harmonisation amendment, contrary to the law in force, and will most likely also agree to the Constitutional Court. In the Group of Members, we believe that there would be a better way. If so-called non-compliance had been found, this would be a new one in this procedure, then it would be a much better way for the mother's working body to submit a so-called harmonisation supplement to the applicable decision we have adopted, not to invent another procedure. Therefore, the Group of Members will not support the proposed Government's harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u3	Let me say that before making a decision, it is possible to explain the voice if anyone so wishes. Otherwise, we'll make a decision. He does. Comrade Dr. Cuckoo, colleague of the Grandchild. You have the floor, Comrade Dr. Cuckoo. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u4	Given that a decision had been taken to fulfil the conditions for two municipalities and that, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities, the National Assembly had to establish a referendum area and because it had not done so, the Government had prepared an amendment to the applicable decision and had not solved the complications that had arisen due to non-compliance with the law, and since we see in this, honourable Members and Members of Parliament demeaning ignorance, not only to those fundamental human rights to self-determination, to the right of referendum, to the right to vote. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u5	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u6	But also, I'm sorry, the humiliating ignorance of the law that I just quoted. [[...]] And since this is obviously a demeaning ignorance even to the conclusions of this national assembly, our parliamentary group cannot participate in such a rude decision and we will obstruct this point in accordance with Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. As the New Slovenia Group announced the obstruction in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure have also been followed by the Socialist Party's Group. We'll take that into account. Anybody else want to explain their voice? My grandson raised his hand earlier. He insists on that? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll vote against both of you myself. I am at all disturbed by the second amendment, where two proposals have just come together. If we have voted on each individual before, we should also now vote on each proposal separately because it speaks of the status of the municipal congregation. As far as the second amendment and the status of the municipal municipality are concerned, I think that when Members voted for the referendum for the second time, they asked themselves why it makes sense, but when the referendum does not change, when nothing changes, only the status changes. I think it's a complete nonsense to have a referendum on this. I also think that, unfortunately, the Constitutional Court will have to do its own thing here, and this nonsense will be eliminated as far as that is concerned. I would like to thank my fellow Members, all those who have supported these two proposals for the municipalities so far, the same is true for those who abstained, because in fact they voted in a way that they would vote in favour. I urge them once again to oppose this harmonisation amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u9	All right, colleague of the grandkids. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. Then we'll move on to the decision on the first harmonisation amendment. We're voting. We are voting on the first harmonisation amendment. We're in the middle of a vote on the first harmonisation amendment. There aren't enough colleagues and colleagues in the hall. I'm going to put the first harmonisation amendment on the table again, this time in second. We're voting. We are voting on the first harmonisation amendment. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present, 33 for, 8 for. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The first harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second harmonisation amendment. We're voting. We vote on the second harmonisation amendment. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There aren't enough people in the hall to be on the stand. I will wait a few seconds and repeat the vote on the second harmonisation amendment. We decide on the second harmonisation amendment. Please declare yourself by pressing the "quorum" key against or for. We vote on the second harmonisation amendment. I'm gonna have to schedule a 10-minute break. At 2.25 p.m. in the third, we will decide on the second harmonisation amendment. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u10	In the third, I identify the presence and at the same time the will of the 2nd harmonisation amendment. I ask my fellow Members and Members to come to the Chamber. Please! When 14.26 is on the screen, for the third time, I will determine your political will regarding the second harmonisation amendment. Colleagues and colleagues! I ask that we decide on the second harmonisation amendment in the third. I am putting the proposal for a second harmonisation amendment to the vote. Please plead with me. 52 present. 39 for, 7 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am also putting to the vote a full proposal for a decision. We're voting. We vote on the proposal for a decision as a whole. 53 present. 41 for, 7 for. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. I note that the National Assembly has taken a coordinated decision on all the roles it has dealt with under Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Communities and the Designation of Their Areas. With this, colleagues and colleagues, I also conclude this item on the agenda. I will determine, in the light of the obstruction at the previous point and the fact that speakers from these two parliamentary groups have been reported at point 1.b for three minutes of recess, and then the State Assembly will continue. Three minutes of rest, then proceed with the 1.b item on the agenda. Three minutes of rest. I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall at point 1.b. We will proceed to the consideration of the draft final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 1998.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u11	We are moving on to the 1st B POINT OF THE DAY LINE, which is the defensive proposal of the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia. Since I've suspended the session for a few minutes, I need to rediscover the presence in the hall. Please, if you'll come to the hall and notify us of your presence. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. 48 present. The National Assembly is therefore concluded and may decide. I would like to say that we are in the middle of point 1.b, in the context of the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members. I'm giving my word to a fellow seal that I don't see between us. This also concludes the presentations of the views of the groups of Members, unless one of the groups of Members wishes to present its views. [[No, no, ……]] None. Then I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. First of all, he has the word of a colleague, Andrej Bajuk. He has the right to speak indefinitely. I limit all other debates to 5 minutes. You have the floor, Comrade Dr. Andrej Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the introduction to this item at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, I delivered an opinion to the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, which was designed to be adopted unanimously as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u13	Allow me to interrupt because I think you have every right to obey your performance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I said that, in the introduction to this point, I had already presented an opinion on behalf of the Commission, which was drafted and also unanimously adopted. Personally, I must point out once again that it is totally unacceptable that the final accounts of the State budget are accepted with several years' delay rather than being accepted for consideration of each next draft budget. That is why, together, the government and the Court of Auditors, and indirectly, I hope to say, also the National Assembly in the previous term, which, at least to me, has taken this task as its side task. The purpose of the adoption of the accounts is to give discharge to the Government responsible for the implementation of the budget adopted. Therefore, the presentation of the final accounts of the budget should be provided by the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister himself. This would be even more fitting because he was at the head of the government in 1998 and 1999. However, it would certainly be necessary for the audit reports to be presented by Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Since this is not the case, it is obvious that the laying of public responsibility, what is known in the world as "public accountability", has not yet been given national rights in Slovenia. This right and obligation to lay public responsibility through the consideration of the final budget account should therefore be enshrined in the Public Finance Act. The second point I must point out is that the Court of Auditors does not, in its audits of the regularity of the implementation of the budget, audit of the accounts and the correctness of the implementation of the laws, in particular on the implementation of the budget, even after seven or eight years, fully follow the objectives set by the International Association of Supreme Audit Institutions or Intosai for such audit purposes, even though they are also referred to in our Court of Auditors' audit reports. These standards provide for each country to adopt its State auditing standards which take into account country specificities within the framework of the Intosai definitions. Since the Court of Auditors did not adopt Slovenian standards for State audit under the previous law, it was also able to determine its methodology. Special attention is also due to the conclusion that the Court of Auditors does not revise the balance sheet of ministries and the state budget as a whole. In order for the Court of Auditors not to need this, we have written down in just two laws adopted in the same year a different concept for what are the annual accounts of the State budget or the final accounts of the budget. Under the Accounting Act, the annual accounts of the budget shall consist of two statements, a statement of revenue and expenditure in Parts A, B and C, and a balance sheet. However, in the Public Finance Act, the final budget account consists only of a balance of revenue and expenditure and annexes with certain items in the balance sheet. It is clear, however, that there is no difference between the annual accounts and the final accounts in the professional public at home and abroad. I hope that we will be able to talk more about these matters this half-year, at least when the final budget account for 2000 is considered. At that time, I hope that we will also have the opportunity to assess or say whether the new law on the Court of Auditors waiting for a constitutional review is really better than the first one. Nevertheless, honourable fellow Members, I believe that each of us should read the audit opinions back to the 1998 and 1999 accounts, as they have so many conclusions in all of them that they point out that there are no fundamental rules in our country that ensure the legitimate or proper implementation of the budget and the use of public funds. They are not implemented because there are neither certain sanctions for their non-implementation, but if they are, no one takes them into account. However, if an offence is reported, it is already a negotiable statute of limitations. To this end, I would like to draw your attention to some of the findings of the Court of Auditors, which I quickly collected and did not choose for material importance, and at the same time to raise some questions that we could not get the answers to the Commission which I am leading, because the Court of Auditors was not present, nor were the Government's responsible representatives. As far as the closing account is concerned in 1998. The second-degree Senate issued an opinion with reservation on the correctness of the 1998 accounts. What is that, and when does it come to an opinion with reservations? In this regard, I would like to point out that the correctness review is based on statistical and non-statistical sampling and that the Court of Auditors has established a range between 0.5% and 5% depending on the size of the auditor's expenditure. You can read this on page 48 of this report. In the European Union, up to 2% of the ceiling is tolerated for the use of the common budget. So Slovenian is about twice as high. But about that, I hope, a little more at the closing accounts coming in for the year 2000, I hope soon. When the Court of Auditors determined the extent of irregularities or illegality in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, it was decided, for example, that only 10% of the amount of such procurement would be considered an irregularity. On page 11, the first paragraph was written down, and I quote: "When we found irregularities in the choice of the contractor or the award of the contract, we assessed the conduct as a error of 10% of the amount of the payment." So all of these data we have, we also need to understand that they were compiled on the basis of such a concept. The 1998 budget deficit was projected at 30.8 billion tolars in the National Assembly. In fact, it was shown to be higher than 1.5 billion tolars. Net indebtedness, the financing account, was also higher than planned for even more than 5 billion tolars. At the same time, 13 months of tax inflows from goods traffic, instead of 12 months, were covered in revenue, which is at 9. The rapporteur on the page. At the same time, the government has also adopted so-called measures to reduce budget expenditure. You can read this on pages 12 and 13. And here I quote: "The government has temporarily banned transfers of funds between items under the financial plan of the user and new commitments to the 1998 budget by means of a measure of individual users. Reduced consumption has caused many users difficulties in settling obligations and contracts already concluded. In particular, those users who introduced austerity measures themselves prior to the adoption of the government decision mentioned above and those to whom the government further restricted spending, such as in the field of education and education, were at risk." End of quote of the text of the Court of Auditors. How many unpaid invoices, construction contracts, are left? For how many of them there were contractually deferred deadlines for payment of the State, there are no data in the audit report. It only shows that in 1998 SIT 1.8 billion liabilities were paid since 1997. And yes, I quote, "that at the end of 1998 there were still a lot of obligations outstanding, which was also the practice of previous years". You can check this on page 18, last paragraph. It is clear from this that we already had major difficulties in implementing the budget in 1998. The findings of the audit on the budget revenue side further explain this. Already in the financial year 1998, the planned tax revenues were not achieved at the planned level, as they were lower by as much as 25.3 billion SITs or 3.4%. However, there is no data in the final account on the effectiveness of tax recovery, no data on individual types of irrecoverable data. Nor does the Court of Auditors report or even mention that the collection of taxes and other taxes would be revised. Comments on certain findings on the expenditure side. Investments and investment maintenance - Balance sheet A, page 20. In this item we can find that the ministries have not even taken care to register investment investments in a clinical centre, oncology institute, home of graduates, in a complex of Metelkova, etc. It is not too difficult to ask what it is like to have smaller things happening to us when we are making such major investments. Otherwise, errors in the revision of investment payments were revealed in 20.4% of the selected payments. I repeat 20.4%. In 10% of payments were made late, 4.5% in non-compliance with the contract, 7.1% in breach of the contract and 4.3% in breach of the contract law. The financing account - balance sheet B. It is found that in 1998 an early repayment of the NFA debt was made, this is an agreement to settle the total debt of the SFRJ under the Paris Agreement, one series bond, which was not planned in the budget, nor shown in balance sheet C - the financing account. To this end, a new loan was hired, bonds denominated in EQUs amounting to EUR 500 million or SIT 92 billion, and was used for early repayment of EUR 65 billion. We need to ask ourselves why this debt was paid early, why this was not planned in the budget and why it was not recorded, why the exception to the registration was pre-recorded in ZIPRO on page 23, as the Court of Auditors notes that this transaction was registered only in the balance sheet. This is not proposed to the National Assembly, however, when it is necessary to show funding in the C-account in accordance with the gross principle, the hiring and the repayment of all loans. That'll be enough for once as far as the material that's in front of you today. I would just like to reiterate that the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances has proposed that the National Assembly request the Government to report within 30 days to the National Assembly or to the Commission on how it has addressed all these errors. The Commission will review this matter and report to this national assembly at times, if it is concluded, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? In this case, of course, I limit it to five minutes, but otherwise we will conclude the general debate and move to a vote on the conclusions of the parent working body. My colleague Jerovšek wants the word. You have the floor. I'm asking everyone else not to interfere with my colleagues' performances. Comrade Jerovšek, just a moment. Please, may I invite my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With the present adoption of a proposal for a final account for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 1998, I would like to say that it seems humiliating to me that, with such a time delay, we get to the table material which should be the most basic commitment of every single government. In fact, it is demeaning that the government allows itself to have such a humiliating attitude towards the National Assembly, that it does not take into account any recommendations or findings from the Court of Auditors’ audit report in the meantime, because, as we are informed, such and much worse fraud, financial transactions, financial irregularities continue to take place. It is also a hummus, such a government relationship and a ruling coalition, it is also a hummus for all similar things as is now taking place, say, in the Red Cross of Slovenia where government officials, officials of the most powerful government parties hold all the key positions and such irregularities happen. The same is true of public finances, such as the choice of singing for Europe, similar to financial affairs. It's just financial affairs. However, the content of the 1998 report seems as important to me as last year's snow; it is generally not worth discussing about last year's snow. The government knows this well, so it is four years late to bring us to Parliament a proposal for a final account for a concrete year. In addition, representatives of the same government, officials of the same government recently reported to the mayor of Velika Polana that he had not accepted the final account or submitted it that the final account for 2000 had not been accepted. In a minority, a small congregation in Prekmurje. This is duality, this is hypocrisy without chance - because he could not accept it, even if he forced it on the municipal council, which boycotted and obstructed the mayor's work. It is my wish that every time, regardless of the political colour, the budgetary resources of citizens should be held more responsible. Because if we continue with this practice, then Argentina awaits us. Maybe we're already on our way to Argentine bankruptcy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. I ask, does anyone else want to participate in the general debate? Yes, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members. I would like to ask one question more than a debate, namely, to the representatives of the government. Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to listen to the debate of the President of the Commission, but from the media records I would like the government representative to answer my next question. The 1998 audit report also stated among other things: "The Court of Auditors found a type of irregularity in the revision of the 1998 State Budget Final Account and the implementation of financial plans of budgetary users at 16 ministries, the Office of the Prime Minister and the Government Service, and therefore gave the government only an opinion with reservations, two opinions with reservations to the other two ministries, while giving a negative opinion to the Ministry of Agriculture." The auditors checked 4,217 payments and found irregularities in 25.3 percent of the cases, which means that almost 1 in 4 payments were wrong for one or more reasons. So one quarter of the cases in 1998 have been reviewed. Most irregularities were detected at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and at the office of the Prime Minister. Then he writes, here in the newspaper, that at least at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and at the Ministry of Finance. Since it seems that by the time the report is discussed for 2000 and 2001 we will probably need again what three or four years is going to be like, of course, what is the situation at this point. Can you ensure that current payments from budgets do not result in such irregularities? This would be of great interest to me as a Member. And, of course, I'm also interested in what was done in these 25.3% cases where irregularities were detected. Are these correctnesses in any way eliminated, or have they been answered for these irregularities, especially this, or have you put this to the point that it is no longer happening at this time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Before concluding the general debate, I will also ask the Secretary of State whether he wants a word, and before that, I ask my colleagues and colleagues. I note that there is no such interest in participating in the debate so far. Madam Secretary of State, would you like to respond to questions from the hall? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Perhaps first the answer to Mr Jerovska's words. I must point out that the Public Finance Act in Article 98 specifies exactly how the government should deal with the National Assembly when proposing a final account. The Government acted exactly as laid down in the Public Finance Act, and within 30 days of receipt of the audit report, the document was sent to the National Assembly. In this way, I believe that there is no indication that the Government is demeaning in its treatment of the National Assembly with regard to the proposal of a final account. With regard to the question raised then, I must tell you that you cannot get a hundred percent assurance from me today that there are no mistakes in the use of public funds. Errors are still happening today. I believe, however, that they are more due to complex procedures and perhaps still insufficient procedures in specific areas than to deliberate infringements of regulations. Many of the errors presented in this report have been corrected. We know, and it also follows from the report that many of the errors that have been detected have been attributed to the fact that we have had extremely weak and unconstant legislation in the field of public finances and that there has been a lot of ad hoc cases. This was the main reason for the violations. I can say that this fundamental reason for such errors has been removed by the Law on Public Finance, continued by improving the appropriateness of the Law on the implementation of the budget and the Rules of Procedure for the implementation of the budget, which in some parts has been extremely decisive in determining how it is done in individual cases. An accounting law has been passed and, on the basis of it, a number of sub-laws that largely prevent the errors expressed in this report. Furthermore, the government has largely respected the recommendations it has received from the Court of Auditors, not only from the moment it received the report, but from the moment the previous report was issued. So I believe that to a large extent the errors have been corrected. How many errors have been corrected and to what extent will be shown in the final budget account for 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I guess not. I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed conclusions of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. I am therefore opening a debate on the proposals for conclusions. Anybody want a word about conclusions? I guess not. In this way, the National Assembly will move on to the decision-making process. I would like to remind you that you have your conclusions before you in the report to the proposal on page 4. We will decide all three conclusions together. We will first decide on the decision under order number 1 and then on the conclusions under order number 2 and 3 together. President, do you agree with this procedure? [[Yeah.]] First of all, we will decide on the decision under order number 1 that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will adopt the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 1998. This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. 46 present. 33 for, 6 for. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the Council of State has decided that the decision under order number 1 has been adopted. The Secretariat advises me that the National Assembly may decide on decisions under order Nos. 2 and 3 together. If any of you do not object, then we can decide together. I shall put both proposals for decisions under order Nos 2 and 3 to the vote. We're voting. We vote on the conclusions under order numbers 2 and 3 on page 4 of the report. 47 present. 42 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the conclusions are fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to the 1st C.D. OF THE DAY'S LINE - CONSTITUTION OF THE FINAL BUDGET FOR THE YEAR 1999. This proposal was also tabled by the Government. I'm asking, does the representative, the secretary of state, want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] She wants the word commission or her president? [[He does.]] Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, colleague of Dr Bayuk. You have the floor. Then does any of the members of this group want a special word? I don't have that kind of application right now. Here's the president. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 10th meeting, on 6.12.2001, the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft final accounts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 1999 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for adoption pursuant to Article 97(4) of the Law on Public Finance. The Commission also did not receive any report from other bodies to the final account for the control of the budget and other public finances to the 1999 accounts, as provided for in Article 227 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In my introduction to the Commission's meeting, I found that the Government had submitted a final account to the Court of Auditors in its opinion of 12.5.2000. The Court of Auditors, however, issued a decision to carry out the audit of the final account on 11.7.2000. The preliminary report was prepared on 14 December 2000 and, as the Government has not commented on it, this report became final on 29 December 2000. From receipt of the final account until the final report, the Court of Auditors took 7 months, which is significantly less than for the 1998 final account. The method of the audit was different from that of the 1998 final account audit, since the report did not include reviews of the implementation of the financial plans of the budgetary users. Audits for individual budgetary users have been made separately for 24 users and separate reports have been issued in these audits. Only the main findings are provided in the final account report on these reviews. The main findings of the Court of Auditors in the audit of the accounts were as follows. Not all revenue has been shown in the budget and the principle of budget integrity has therefore been violated. For some users, there are large deviations between the budget adopted and actual consumption, mostly in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, in the case of 41 budget items and in 24 items more than 80 per cent. There's been a lot of irregular payments. Of the audited 2645 payments, 252 or almost 10 percent were with one or more reported irregularities or errors. The most frequent payment was not based on the legal basis in force or consumption was not planned in the financial plan. As a result of compensation with the Slovenian Development Company, the 1999 company's privatisation purchases are shown to be too low for 596 million tolars. Irregularity in capital investments, which are shown as long-term loans, is Tetol Ljubljana, TE Brestanica. The opinion delivered at the end of the report by the Court of Auditors on the final accounts of the 1999 budget is as follows. With regard to the accounts submitted, the Court of Auditors considers that they can confirm that the final accounts in 1999 truly and correctly represent the revenue and expenditure of the 1999 budget, this also applies to the accounts of financial claims and investments and the financing account, and therefore give a positive opinion on the correctness of the final accounts. As regards the correctness of the execution of the accounts, they consider that, apart from the conduct and payments referred to above, in all relevant respects, in accordance with the amount and purpose of the appropriations established by the budget and the payments granted by the authorised persons, they therefore give an opinion with reservation. In order to monitor the budget and other public finances, the Commission proposes to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt the following decisions after considering the proposal for the 1999 final budget account. For the first time, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia accepts the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 1999. Secondly, the National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to inform the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances within 30 days of how individual ministries and government as a whole have addressed the irregularities identified in the Court of Auditors' report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I do not have any statements from representatives of the parliamentary groups, nor do I limit the post-debate to five minutes. Do any of the Members or Members want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the general debate. That's how we're gonna do it, Comrade Bajuk, you want a word? [[...]] Five minutes. Would you like to do it on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Bajuk? [[No, no, ……]] Five minutes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just a few comments. I just want to warn you. The Court of Auditors has expressed, as a whole, a positive opinion in the revision of the regularity of the budget, except for certain specific items. These are non-tax revenue, the revision of individual payments, the purchases from the privatisations of companies and the use of purchasing funds from the privatisation of companies. In this opinion, too, the Court of Auditors states that the financial year was extended until 31 January of the following year and adds, and this is very interesting, I also quote, "that in this way the budgetary financing of the tasks assumed by budgetary users is increasingly being jeopardised by the annual adoption of the budget". It also noted that the budget deficit in the planned frameworks was achieved precisely because of such revenue management as well as a certain adjustment of expenditure payments. If the Court of Auditors had drawn attention to this fact before the adoption of the budget for 2002, that warning would have value. I believe that the National Assembly would take it into account when adopting the budget also in its previous composition. You will probably agree with me if I say that it would be right for Members to know the guidelines of the Court of Auditors on the basis of which a type of audit opinion is decided, either positive or negative. Therefore, I recommend that, in our consideration, we look back at at least the items with reservation in this final account in 1999, with the desire to keep them in mind when we consider amendments to the Public Finance Act in the work relating to internal control in the coming days. For example, item revision of individual payments. The Court of Auditors reports that in the audit of the various 2,645 payments, 9.5% found one or more irregularities or errors. In this regard, the Court of Auditors shall also specify the structure of the irregularity of the verification of these payments, 38.2% of which was not based on the applicable legal basis in the items. 19.5% - the contract was not awarded correctly or in accordance with the law; 31% - the use was not in the financial plan or budget or procurement plan; 3.8% - the payment was not made in accordance with the contract 3% - the payment of transfers and the subsidies were made incorrectly [[but don't tell me how]] , and 2.2% - was not in line with purpose. 19.5% of the revised payments violated the Public Procurement Act despite the validity of this Act for the third year. The point is that the common values of these orders are not disclosed to us by the Court of Auditors. It does not even say how it takes them into account within its tolerance limit for an opinion on the final accounts of the previous year, which we have just rescheduled. The amount also did not reveal, but it stated only that 10% of the value of such orders was considered to be a mistake and not here. What to do when the government is obviously deaf and does not hear that such a violation of public procurement rules is unacceptable. Are we even doing public procurement? Nor does it hear that, in the field of public procurement in 2000, it is not quite different that this is not expected in the new Public Procurement Act, which was in force in 2001, since we found, as soon as it was put into effect, that it is not in line with the guidelines of the European Union, even though it has been made public. It's been a year since the surveillance committee. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the budget and other public finances have proposed to the government that it amend and supplement the new Public Procurement Act; it has also proposed for the law to revise public procurement, and so far nothing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u25	Time's up, mate Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u26	Time's up, and so is interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you. Comrade Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to raise a question with the Government regarding the proposal for the 1999 accounts. On item 6661, a total of 58 million Tolars were budgeted for the arrangement - not to be petty - of the Cemeteries of Teharje, Kočevski Rog. That, we know that cancer is a wound, because nothing's going to work out, and that half-made monument is about to fall. Only 4 million were used and 53 million were redeployed. Why was this redistributed, and where was this redistributed? Secondly, transfers to war invalids, veterans and victims of war violence, as defined by the government's serious plans, as well as the adopted budget, 22 billion and slightly more. Seven billion were redeployed. The same question as to what were the reasons why you were put into such a transfer, for what purpose was it for? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much for the question, Comrade Petty Officer. Do any other Members or Members want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Madam Secretary of State, would you like to answer my colleague Drobnic's question? Yes, you do. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I'm sorry I can't answer you right now. I don't, not in my head, not on the paper of all the details that happened in 1999, so we're going to answer your question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u31	The Secretary of State has therefore announced a written answer to your question raised. Anyone else want a word? Otherwise, I will close the general debate. Good. This is what I will do now and will move on to the decision on the proposed conclusions of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. We have proposals for conclusions. Two decisions will be decided separately. We have them on page three of the report. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] So we'll go through the decision. First of all, we will vote on the decision under order number 1 that the National Assembly adopts the final budget account for 1999. Let's vote! We vote on the decision under order number 1 on the third page of the report. I'll draw attention once again to the attention and concentration in the hall. I will put a decision to the vote under order number one, secondly. Please vote! We vote on the decision under order number one. There's 50 of us in the gym. Hard over 50. I don't know what the reason is that you didn't want to be present in another. I have no choice but to set aside a 10-minute break in the light of my lack of concentration. At 3:24 p.m., we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u32	I invite the Members to come to the hall. In less than two minutes, I'll put a decision to the vote for the third time under order number two. Before us, there was a strong "quorum" in the Chamber, but obviously due to the lack of defence, the Members did not follow the procedure. Then I would just like to point out that government representatives will prepare to move on to the first item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal of the National Higher Education Programme. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. When it is on screen 15.25, I will find out in the third political will regarding the second conclusion of the 1999 report. Colleagues and colleagues! Please take your seats in the hall. We're in the middle of a decision-making process. First, we shall put to the vote a decision under order number 1. The decision is as follows: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 1999. This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We vote in the third trial on the proposal under order number 1. 55 present. 41 for, 6 for. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] The proposal under order number 1 has been adopted. I now put to the vote a motion for a decision under order number 2. Attention in the hall! We vote on the decision under order number 2. 57 present. 47 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've both reached our conclusions. I also conclude this item on the agenda. As I have predicted, we will move on to the 1st TIME OF DAY - THIRD DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE NATIONAL PROGRAMME OF THE HIGH SCHOOL OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The proposal for a national programme was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I invite the Secretary of State to present the Government's views if he so wishes. Mr. Secretary of State, would you like a word? Yes, you do. Please, you have the floor. The rest of you, I respectfully request that the Secretary of State not be disturbed by the introductory explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the third reading, we have a national higher education programme ahead of us. This is one of the most important documents for the development of the country in this area and allow me to present very briefly the basic starting points and objectives of this national programme. We want to increase the share of the working population with higher or postgraduate education to 25% by 2002. At first glance, we had a very ambitious goal, because we had 20% on 31.12.2000. We're counting on it to be possible. We want to increase the share of the population, especially young generations, in tertiary education by having 35 students per thousand population. We're getting close to that number, because now we've got 68 thousand students enrolled. However, we also want to achieve in this programme that at least 50% of the secondary generation will be enrolled in tertiary education and we are lagging behind here - we currently have about 40% of the generation enrolled in tertiary education. In particular, we want to increase the number of places of entry in all tertiary education and gradually remove the restrictions on enrolment in most study programmes. Gradually, we want to co-finance exceptional studies because we believe that at least one third of the young generation enrolled as unemployed and immediately after secondary school is socially severely disadvantaged. We want to double the number of students and graduates in the postgraduate course and to ensure the proper conditions for the functioning of universities and independent higher education institutions and to enable the creation of a decentralised network of higher education. This is an increase in the country's intellectual capital and this capital is becoming more important in most countries than financial capital. We want to encourage cooperation between universities, higher education institutions and the economy, in particular in order to increase the added value of the products currently in our economy. We want to improve and update the scholarship as well as the student standard, especially the capacity of student homes, the generation has increased twice over the last ten years and the student beds have remained practically the same. This national programme represents a modern European direction, but it must be stressed that Europe does not provide for complete or partial harmonisation in this area. The European Higher Education Area will therefore form and contribute to Europe's basic wealth in the field of education, in short, it is a wealth of differences. We believe that the National Higher Education Programme is a quality material and we suggest that the National Assembly accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The proposal for a national programme was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, which is the working body of the mother. Does the president want a word? Please, representative, report to the committee. I'll put my word behind him to the secretariat if that's what he wants. [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? I haven't got one yet. From SNS, thank you very much, and from LDS, SMS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Report of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport on the proposal of the National Higher Education Programme of the Republic of Slovenia - third reading. The text of the proposal incorporates all amendments adopted at second reading. The government has tabled two amendments of the editorial nature that we have adopted on the committee. However, there has been an extensive debate on the proposal of the University of Maribor to register the intention of establishing a medical university at the University of Maribor. On the one hand, the opposition of the government was based on the fact that the procedure for the establishment of university members was already regulated by the law on higher education and that the national programme was not a place where such important issues could be decided without the necessary analyses and expert evaluations. Such conduct would constitute a violation of the autonomy of the university. On the other hand, the debaters did not accept these arguments. It was considered that a well-known finding of a critical lack of physicians in the country should be included in this document for at least a long time. This can be exacerbated by years of changing generations. The overall assessment of all discussers was that this issue was of national importance and that it could only be satisfactorily addressed only through preliminary analyses, inter-sectoral coordination and responsible decision-making in the interests of national interest. The Committee has therefore drafted its amendment. Following the agreement of the representative of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, he decided to request an analysis or expert evaluation to resolve the lack of doctors to be prepared within four months in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. We also discussed the proposal of the Working Group on Language Planning and Language Policy. According to the proposal, the national programme should pay more attention to Slovenian than to the learning language. The university's obligation is to carry out study programmes in Slovenian also in case of student exchanges in cases of the European Union. The idea that this issue should be highlighted in particular has been taken over by the Committee as its amendment. After the discussion, the Committee proposed to the National Assembly the following decision: "The proposal of the National Higher Education Programme of the Republic of Slovenia, thirdly addressed, shall be adopted together with the amendments proposed or supported by the Committee." I call on Members and Members to adopt the proposal for a national higher education programme at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much. There are three groups of Members - four? - they want to make their views known. First, colleague Barovic on behalf of the SNS Group, then colleague Germič on behalf of the LDS Group, colleague Štemberger on behalf of the SMS Group and colleague Tsukati on behalf of the SDS Group of Members and then Mrs Tisovic on behalf of the N Group of Members. You did. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the executive branch! According to the Slovenian National Party, the National Higher Education Programme is basically a good programme. Why? Because if or when it is realized, it will create 25% of the Slovenians who will have higher or higher education, giving more than 50% of the students the opportunity for tertiary education. This is because it foresees the decentralisation or dispersion of higher and higher education in the areas of so-called ‘decentralisation’. statistical regions. Because it foresees - and we hope that if the national programme is adopted, we will also implement - a sufficient or at least a sufficient amount of resources required for all types of education. At the same time, it is also good because it foresees co-financing of local communities in the establishment of new institutions, new institutions. This is also good because local communities and regions will be aware of the needs that will be based on the envisaged development. However, there is no way that we should not stop in need of doctors. We know that Fides was already yesterday, and today he warned that according to their calculations in Slovenia there are approximately 700 doctors missing. We know that the average age of specialists in Slovenia is about 54 years, which means, after a six-year medical study, I think that four or five years of specialization and a two-year specialist study will create a big hole in the Republic of Slovenia for doctors of specialists who are already being imported today. We import from different countries. Many come from the country's common country of the Republic of Yugoslavia. The quality of the work of medical universities in these countries is, this is a real assessment, worse than the quality of the medical faculty we have in Slovenia. Another information is very important. About 25 years ago, with the help of the Clinical Center at least in professional work, the medical faculty was able to enter between 300 and 400 students. Today, there are only about 160 entries. And let me say one more thing. I have a comparison of medical education in the European Union prepared by Maribor General Hospital, where we can see that in the developed Scandinavian countries, if I give an example, I can give, as an example, Ireland, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, England, that about one million people in each country have one medical faculty. I am sure that this average is very good and worthy of us to follow his example. And why so many words about med school? First of all, I probably share with you, my respectable colleague and colleague, that medical training is essential for us. We are reminded of this by numerous data, numerous institutions, institutions. We all know that even when we're patients alone. Secondly, because I am afraid, at least this was already the case in the debate on the working body, so that there would not be a fight between Ljubljana and Maribor again, and that it would not then become this local duel, but not a fight of content or a fight for content. Let's build a medical school where it's possible. The University of Maribor was ready and offered assistance, probably not in mind, probably some basic analysis has already been done. And it was the committee's decision when he said it was necessary to do a thorough analysis below. I think it is right, colleagues and colleagues, that when we adopt a national programme, we still count on the university in Maribor to be prepared and good, of course, with the help of a hospital in Maribor to educate new doctors. There is something else that needs to be highlighted in this regard. In doing so, it is likely to be feared that doctors, experienced doctors, would suddenly come to the work of professors. I am sure that at the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana we have in well-organised work and planning good lecturers, good professors who would be prepared - some have expressed this desire and ability - to teach if this happens, even at the Medical College in Maribor. Certainly it is not good to import lecturers from other countries just because we know that we have a good lecturer in Slovenia and that this is how the University of Maribor will be if this happens, as Ljubljana creates a larger number of good, quality doctors. This does not go far from not to mention concerns about Slovenian language. Not only because it is our mother tongue, because our culture has brought us all together into a new country, the country of the Republic of Slovenia. Especially because, believe me, Slovenian language will be threatened at the time of its accession to the European Union. In short, colleagues and colleagues, the opinion of the Slovenian National Party is that the national higher education programme is a suitable basis for us to adopt it. At the same time, I would like to ask and point out once again, let us be clear and concrete about the problem of new medical personnel, new doctors. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. Mr Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. This will be followed by a colleague of Štemberger. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Thus, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we also assess the national programme of higher education as one of the very important programmes, which means achieving the clearly set goal of having a knowledge-based society in Slovenia. The national programme is based on and reflects the direction of the Bologna Declaration and Ministerial Decisions in Prague last year, which aims to integrate and create a common higher education space in Europe by 2010. The national programme also reflects a course involving Europe as a knowledge-based Europe. The set objectives, which are reflected in the national programme, as has already been said, are ambitious, are highly committed and, of course, the achievement of these objectives, will also be an answer to the question whether we will be able to respond to the challenges of time and whether we will be able to implement the development programme set in Slovenia. Among these objectives, I would like to highlight the objectives already stated, but I think they are extremely important: - raising the educational structure of the population as an extremely important goal, in achieving the goal - Slovenia, as a knowledge-based society; - the quality of tertiary education and the quality assurance of this quality as an extremely important objective, within which the effectiveness and effectiveness of appropriate investment in staff, equipment, the integrated operation of research and teaching work and, of course, the introduction of a credit system will be improved, ensuring flexibility in the study; - the promotion of cooperation between universities and higher education institutions and the economy and the international open higher education area achieves two very ambitious objectives, namely the openness and competitiveness of higher education; - the basic objective set out in this document is education for the greatest possible competitiveness in the international labour market, where lifelong education is based. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the amendments formulated by the Committee in the context of the preparation of the third reading reading material, with a special emphasis on the discussion and drafting of the amendment as a result of the debate on the issue of medical and prefectural graduates, i.e. the issues of ensuring an adequate number of doctors in Slovenia. Here we are clear from the point of view that, according to the nature of the national programme, it does not belong to the establishment of public institutions as such or to the establishment of a university within certain universities. We will therefore support the amendment prepared by the Committee, but we will not support amendments that wish to register in the national programme the establishment of higher education centres based in certain areas and, of course, not that the national programme itself prescribes the establishment of a university within a particular university. However, since we are aware that ensuring an adequate number of university graduates is an extremely pressing issue in the coalition, we have also drawn up a decision to complement the decision of the committee, which, of course, should bind the government and its professional bodies to prepare as soon as possible the professional basis necessary for the decision on the eligibility of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Maribor. We believe that this respects the autonomy of the university space, and, of course, we also call on other members of Parliament to join in supporting this decision and to prepare as soon as possible all expert evaluations on how to assess the eligibility of the medical faculty within the framework of the University of Maribor. We want all the ambitious targets set under the national programme to be adequately supported, and we want the national programme in the area of higher education to be fully realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Comrade Štemberger, you have the floor; you will present the position of the parliamentary group of young people. You will be followed by a colleague Ana Marija Tisovic to present the views of the New Slovenia Group. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Štemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. From the beginning of time, knowledge has made life easier and easier. Knowledge was the foundation of the emergence and development of great civilizations from the past, whose achievements we admire today. That knowledge has always been at home on Slovenian soil, we are convinced by the important scientific achievements of Josef Štefan, Yuri Vega and other Slovenian scientists. Let's not expect the domestic industry to compete successfully with the great international giants. Small Slovenia will be able to become a recognized and equal competitor in a great Europe and in an even bigger world with only quality knowledge. First of all, we need to make sure that knowledge becomes more valuable at home than it is now, and that a climate will be created that will allow younger scientists to make a deserved application, as this will be the only way to stop the brain drain that is now so-called. On this document, the National Higher Education Programme, which we are adopting today in the National Assembly, Slovenia has been waiting for independence. This is why the Party of Young Slovenia expects the content of the National Higher Education Programme to come to life in practice by adopting it. This means that Slovenia and its universities will only begin to implement the provisions of the Bologna process, for which, at the time of entry into a single European higher education area with full responsibility, they will commit themselves to public knowledge and that undergraduate education must remain free and accessible to everyone who wants it. In setting national priorities through the budgets, the Republic of Slovenia will place higher education among major long-term projects in the future; to encourage the economy to invest and work more closely with scientific research work; to make all Slovenian and postgraduate programmes equivalent to similar programmes in the signatory countries, in particular by raising the quality of study programmes and processes, by implementing the credit system of study, by effectively implementing and following evaluation and self-evaluation procedures and, last but not least, by promoting the polycentric development of higher education, which we understand also the establishment of the Maritime University as well as the opening up of the medical faculty in Maribor. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the National Higher Education Programme and continue to monitor and encourage the continuation of the announced reforms of higher education with a desire for a brighter future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Colleague Ana Marija Tisovic, I invite you to the speaker stage to present the views of the Novi Slovenije Group. He'll get the word of his colleague Cheligoy behind you. First, my colleague Tisovic. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, everyone! It is important for Slovenia, even because of its smallness, to be included in the currents of global globalisation with the greatest possible share of highly educated labour. Therefore, a good national higher education programme is very important. Our New Slovenia Group supports amendments that highlight the development of national identity and the Slovenian language. We've missed this a lot in recent years. We also support the strengthening of the network of higher education and higher education centres in our New Slovenia Group, as this can enable many citizens to obtain higher or higher education, which may be very difficult or even impossible to obtain because of material problems or distances. We will also support the possibility of establishing a medical university in Maribor. We know that this is a very demanding project that we should have undertaken strategically years ago. This would provide the health network of Slovenia with sufficient home doctors in time and, of course, also to enable our students of medicine who are forced to study at Croatian or Austrian medical universities due to the overload of the medical faculty in Ljubljana. And finally, if the Ljubljana Medical School is relieved, it will be easier to adapt to the new trends of medical study. It also seems urgent to us to increase the spatial capacity of those colleges whose graduates we urgently need, because we know that the lack of translators, informatics and so on is very current. However, I must point out that our New Slovenia Group does not support the "ad hoc" solution. We are aware that it is also necessary to have good higher education teachers. It will not help us to have higher and higher education institutions produce personnel that will not be of quality. We must not allow our students to come to college just for a paper, i.e. a diploma, but to come for quality knowledge. Our college graduates must be able to make practical use of their academic knowledge or to be innovative. This will enable us to be competitive in the European Union and elsewhere in the world and to ensure our country's success and reputation. It is important to ensure that both regular and extraordinary students have equal opportunities for quality lectures. Our Group of Members is aware that we have a good higher education staff. But let us remember that years ago, when our highly educated people went abroad, there they upgraded their knowledge and are now very much recognised abroad. If we allowed the brain escape from Slovenia at the time, we must make an effort today to get at least a few of these personnel to come back. If many countries in Central and Eastern Europe have succeeded in attracting their people with all responsibility to their nation back to their homeland, why not use the same policy with us. Another example is the Czech Republic, which regularly invites living Czech experts abroad to a meeting at home and thus integrates them successfully into the development of its country. In the national interest of Slovenia, investing in higher education programmes is still essential. We know there's always too little money in a high school financial bag. We therefore support the reallocation of as much share as possible in the budget to this end. Our concern must also be to plug into this financial bag all the holes through which money flows into non-productive programs or even unknown where. If there is too little money, it must be used more effectively. The New Slovenia Group will support the National Higher Education Programme, although we believe that it could be even better here and there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Two other members wish to take a position; first, Comrade Celigoj, the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, and finally, after him, Comrade Podobnik, the position of the SLS Group of Members. First of all, Comrade Celigoy on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u45	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the government, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. We have actively followed the consideration of the National Higher Education Programme in the DeSUS Group. We have followed the consideration of the proposed amendments and initiatives for amending and supplementing this programme. We are pleased to note that many relevant institutions have been actively involved in the work of the parent committee, including representatives of both Slovenian universities and student organisations, and have been extremely constructive in the design of some amendments. We believe that the programme under consideration of the national programme is good and that the amendments under consideration and supported will only make it rich. The National Higher Education Programme is open enough to enable the establishment of new higher education centres as well as the design of those study directions that this living space also needs. With regard to thinking about the introduction of various schools, the payment of pre-graduate studies, the parliamentary group is determined to defend the freeness of a regular and extraordinary study, i.e. a pre-graduate study. In particular, paying would be an overcompensation for exceptional students, who are mostly younger, with lower incomes and perhaps even unemployed. The important principle of lifelong education is also well placed in the national programme. The share of the population involved in third-life education will certainly be increased and increasingly stressed. Our DeSUS Group will support the National Higher Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia and the amendments prepared by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Podobnik will present the position of the SLS Group. Then does any of the other MPs want to do it? [[No, no, ……]] You're the last one, Comrade Squirrel. Here you go. Excuse me. Dr. Cuckoo, I didn't see you. If that's the case, I apologize. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State! The Slovenian People's Party Group will support the proposed national programme of higher education of the Republic of Slovenia. We can say that this is a document that is actually forming a consensus in the National Assembly. In our view, the government has also worked very closely with all those institutions that can cooperate more professionally and widely in this area. The very purpose of the proposed national programme is to write down a point that needs to be highlighted in particular. In accordance with the legal principle that the university is an autonomous scientific research institute and a special educational institution, only state-to-university relations are regulated in the decree. However, all internal relations of the university, as legal persons to members, are regulated by the Statute. This direction is, in our view, correct and should be highlighted in the introduction. However, the second thought in the introduction is the fundamental strategic objective of higher education. This is in order to enable the maximum percentage of the population to obtain quality undergraduate and postgraduate education. "This is an essential factor in economic, social and cultural development and the preservation of national identity. Such education can only be obtained through the scientific, artistic and professional activities of universities and independent higher education institutions opened up to the region and the world." End of quote. We also took an interest in examining a very good document that you have presented to us. This is a document of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. It was signed by the President, by the academics France Bernik, and by the Vice President, by the academics Aloys King. This document synthetically contains a number of things that need to be highlighted in the debate on the National Higher Education Programme. The first is the thought of Slovenian universities. Slovenia is a small country with two universities and a third, which originates. On this third, which is a coastal university, we would like to express our position here, we expect that all professional, civil society, scientific and political institutions will do their utmost to complete the process of establishing a coastal university in this year. The Academy of Science and Art says that our universities must be at least the same, if not better than the European average, if we are to participate equally and competitively in the European Community. This document also contains the thought of money. With regard to talent, Slovenia should allocate relatively more resources for higher education than the leading European countries. In higher education, however, responsibility for the reasonable use of public funds should prevail. In our view, the debate in the National Assembly at this document shows the political will of the National Assembly to take seriously the direction of the Slovenian Academy, to allocate relatively more resources for higher education than in the leading European countries. A third thought is the thought of national importance. And the Academy says universities in Slovenia must take special care of areas of national importance. Language, history, the area of national culture, literature, art. These areas should be subject to specific operating and financing criteria. There's a lot of talk about quality. In Slovenia, it is essential to provide an independent and internationally established system for assessing the quality of the operation of higher education institutions and their units, research programmes, the efficiency of rational use of equipment, spaces, innovation and knowledge transfer, similar to those established in Finland, Denmark, the Netherlands and Ireland. And towards the end, there is also the thought that Slovenia must increase the educational structure of the population and reach the leading countries as soon as possible. This is why the Academy supports the establishment of new higher education institutions, regional and state aid programmes, especially in the regions and at the border, at the intersection of peoples, languages and cultures and where faster development is sought. The establishment of higher education institutions is justified in order to accelerate the economic development of the region and to stabilise the national border. Here we would like to highlight the question that was already raised today by the fellow Members when they represented the position of the Group Members. In fact, it is the only serious topic that has not yet been consensually accepted by the Committee on Education, Science and Sport. On the other hand, whether the framework of the National Higher Education Programme allows such formulations to be recorded, which would mean the political will of the National Assembly, to establish a medical faculty in a specific environment, if we are specific, at the University of Maribor. I would also like to say the position of our party. As a political body, the Executive Committee of our party has failed to do so, as a political party we support the establishment of a medical faculty in Maribor. At the same time, we propose, in the context of today's debate and the debate on the amendments tabled, that we try to find a way of doing so ourselves, so that the National Higher Education Programme, as an act, will enable such solutions, so that we will clearly write down some political will in it. An additional decision is also proposed. The additional decision is, as a rule, a commendable decision by the National Assembly, which is not, in essence, binding as a law or as a national programme. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we estimate that the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana is a good medical faculty; however, due to the known facts of the ageing of the Slovenian medical population, the current data has been clearly shown that the lack of active Slovenian doctors has been demonstrated that the moment has come for all those who decide on these issues to decide. This does not mean that the National Assembly should not take a step forward if there is a dilemma between education and the health sector. In the framework of its procedure, the National Assembly will find a way to write a document unequivocally in order to support the establishment of a medical faculty within the framework of the University of Maribor. We have already written down some of the solutions that open and support the possibility of establishing new higher education institutions with regional and state aid. We support this direction, as we say, but we also support all the solutions that will be recorded in a document called the national programme by the political direction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in order for the University of Maribor to be rounded up in such a way as to obtain a comprehensive medical faculty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members will be presented by Dr Cukjat.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The National Programme of Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia, a document that is difficult after content, is probably difficult after acceptance - I do not know because it has been accepted for so many years - certainly a document in which to stop. On the first hand, we already have the objectives of higher education. I would just like to mention these goals, see: increase the proportion of the working population with higher, higher or postgraduate education to 25% in 2005; then, in different forms of tertiary education, 50% of each generation should be enrolled; the number of admissions, at least double the number of students, ensure the conditions for the successful functioning of universities, improve the performance and effectiveness of studies, promote cooperation between universities, improve and modernise scholarships, in particular the capacity of student homes. You ask yourself, beautiful, wonderful, the most beautiful goals, nothing! Yeah, actually, on the other hand, what have we been doing so far? Or have we not tried for as much entry as possible, for the best possible quality, for the maximum capacity in student homes as possible, and then when a person is thrilled to read these wonderful goals, it goes on because he wonders how we will achieve these goals. After all, this is supposed to be the content of the programme, as the objectives are indisputable. How, so not what, but how. Well, then we go ahead and read: "It is necessary to set the goal that after 2005 more than 20% of the working population will have higher, higher or postgraduate levels of education and by the end of the decade about 25%." Same with the other words. Come in. "The number of students has yet to increase." Same thing, even with the same words. Come in. "In order to allow the right to education in the Republic of Slovenia and to achieve such a level of entry into tertiary education as is typical of developed countries, and in particular strategically important for countries with fewer populations, we must plan to have about 35 students per thousand population in this decade." The same, maybe in other words. "Youth generations need to create the opportunity for the most intensive development of their abilities." Hell, how, I was looking in the document to figure out how to get there, 'cause that's the problem. The devil is in detail. Well, then, of course, one stops at point 4 - activities necessary for the development and efficiency of work in higher education. And that's where it's supposed to be explained how. Well, I read again: "The identification, monitoring and quality assurance of the educational system is essential for the further development of higher education." Of course, just how, how, how to determine how to measure, how to monitor? Not a word. Come in. "The higher education institutions must pay more attention than they have to to the entry of new people, to the success of the study, to the greater transition and to the reduction of study space." You're going to say, "Autonomous University, how to do this, will immediately be a matter of money." Come in. "The quality of tertiary education should be promoted through different programmes." What programs? When, who? Who? Come in. "The development of higher education must be accompanied by an active scholarship policy." What's that? Where to find the finances? I wouldn't burden you. Just one example of how from the clouds of wonderful promises that we're used to is the mention of a medical faculty. Just an example. It's already been said, but I would have said it again. There were 33,000 students in Slovenia 10 years ago, there are now 68,000 students, more than once. There were more students in medical school ten years ago than there are today. Without doubling the number, the number has decreased. And when we say that it would be good to think about a new college, because Ljubljana is incapable of providing enough admissions to the medical school, we run into the fact that the university is independent and we must not interfere with the university. Yes, what should we be involved in this programme, if not in the need for students, in the capacity to be defined somewhere for a university, in the national needs for individual skills. We don't interfere with the mission at the University of Maribor. The University of Maribor really wants to open a university, and then politics says to her, "You can't open it." Well, that's not meddling in the independence and autonomy of the university. That's not tampering. And while we're at it, only two arguments are supposed to tell us who's in the air, why not the University of Maribor. First of all, there's no money. Yeah, well, what if there's no money? The second argument that the representative of the University of Ljubljana repeatedly mentioned was: "Yes, you know, we are a monopolist and we will oppose the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor." Sad arguments. And I will only give you four arguments why in Maribor. Firstly, there is no spatial capacity in Ljubljana for the university, nor for the practice of students required. The clinical center doesn't suck, it can't absorb, it doesn't absorb more students into practice than it has so far. We need a new hospital. Another time. The European average of university graduates per 2 million people to compare with Slovenia is 225 graduates per year. We've got about 100, 110. Just once less than the European average. If we want to get to the European average, then we need a new college. Third time. Maribor is a border town. When we enter Europe, I hope that we will, then the University of Peas will suck up not only 20 Slovenian students every year, but half of Styria or even Styria if we do not have the Faculty of Maribor and we will have the so-called Germanisation in Styria. I don't think that would be good. It wouldn't be good. And the fourth time. No region in Slovenia suffers so much due to lack of doctors and no region fills so much human deficit with imports from other republics as Styria does. I am, in a way, very disappointed at the debate, not on these high-flying ideas and goals, but on the debate, as soon as we get down to the real ground, we start fighting, is the devil in detail. I think that we could spice up this national programme a little bit, give him some concrete clues if you accept and confirm the amendments that we are also proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Joint List Group, Mr Bevk has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. We also support the National Higher Education Programme of the Republic of Slovenia in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. We believe that the development of higher education is going in the right direction, but, of course, it must also be followed by adequate high funding. Unfortunately, we are lagging behind and are not following this other development. It is gratifying to note from year to year the higher enrolment of students at both universities and at other universities, of course in addition to exceptional schools, but it would be particularly necessary to promote regular studies and the enrolment of regular students, which is also more successful by all parameters. Of course, it is also necessary to ensure an appropriate student standard in order not to make studies the privileges of the rich. Here I mean that we must encourage and provide funds for the construction of student homes, for more accessible scholarship policies, subsidise study literature and textbooks, student nutrition and so on. The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats supports the creation of a third coastal university, as well as, of course, higher education programmes and a network of higher schools, which will also have their place in other regional centres in the country. In the parliamentary group, we also support the establishment of a medical faculty in Maribor, which is why the United List of Social Democrats' Group was also one of the signatories to the additional decision on the National Higher Education Programme of the Republic of Slovenia, which is said to propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare as soon as possible the professional basis necessary for the decision on the eligibility of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Maribor. As we say, our parliamentary group will support the National Higher Education Programme of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I think we have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. So far, I have only one written application for the debate, Mr Jože Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I also support the basic principles and basic objectives of this national higher education programme in the Republic of Slovenia. However, I believe that some of the things that appear at this time in Slovenia as problematic could be better drawn and better defined in this national programme. In doing so, I will focus on two things, what is covered by point 2.2. - accessibility to higher education and its effects; and also on 2.3.5.1 - the possibility of establishing a medical university in Maribor is said. In fact, I would like to make it clear in this national programme for the development of higher education that, I don't know, there will be a deadline for all graduates wishing to continue their studies on regular programmes. While it is written here, I welcome the fact that the primary form of higher education activities is a regular study. However, I do not think this is enough, these are good definitions, which we have been following for many years from the mouths of the ministries, while at the same time we are experiencing a completely different trend in practice. An increasing number of young, capable people are being prevented from learning according to their personal preferences by means of the current way of admission to higher schools and universities. The current way of entering the university is, I don't think, inappropriate. In view of the fact that the basis is mainly and only a certificate of graduation or a diploma. I am not saying that we do not achieve good knowledge outcomes in the secondary school population through senior exams and high school exams. However, young people who do not yet have fully manufactured their professional ambitions and who do not look at professional opportunities need to be identified too early, in fact they are already defining themselves after a second year for a particular course of secondary school, when they do not yet have it built. At the same time, we achieve completely different effects, as we may have imagined in the protagonists of such a way of admission to higher school. In fact, it also says in this paper that we have a high or comparable percentage in the Republic of Slovenia, or even a larger one, of students in humanistic sciences, where the law and the economy belong, as well as a technique that is very lagging behind in the field of natural science. The current system of entry through the certificate of graduation is such that a large scale of mass, collective psychology in graduates is in operation. In fact, it has not been literally inappropriate for a excellence in recent years if, as one of the priorities for admission to higher school or university, it has not given priority to law, economics, medicine. There are additional anomalies due to different ways or rates of maturation of young people. All research confirms that in the maturation period, girls are more sustainable and achieve better learning outcomes in high school. It is not said, however, that young boys do not have exactly the same or comparable intellectual abilities, but they are handicapped in their enrolment in colleges on the basis of the current registration system. In some sciences, this has led to drastic anomalies. I firmly believe that in this area the national corps, the national economy, the national economy, the national interests we are often talking about are seriously affected. There should be some balance in the choice of professions between both sexes, but now we come to some professions feminizing, although they were once even the primary choice of the male population. I am not saying that it must remain as it once was, but the fact is that today, in law school or sometimes any other direction, some high school graduates who have not yet taken high school classes with such high seriousness and have been reflected in their graduation certificate, but I am sure that many of them could become brilliant lawyers, for example. Many of today’s most successful lawyers would not be able to enter this university according to today’s enrollment criteria. Similarly, the situation in other colleges, which is due to the fact that the selection criterion is merely a certificate of graduation, has led to the fact that people, students do not subscribe according to their personal preferences, are personally willing, on the basis of which they could develop into very good experts in that field. So it happens that they have to study what the insides don't feel. And they've been bitter their whole lives. And I tell you that such people in the field of technology and science will never develop new products. Never. They may come for their intellect, but they won't work here. And I would like to stress that the National Corps is affected by this. Finally, in the national programme, we should also define the extent to which this registration system should be changed. I agree with you, and I'm here to get the colleges to do the selection. That the selectivity factor is that the difficulty level of a college regulates the number of entries. I'm sure it was once at the University of Ljubljana, and also in Maribor, it was already a great degree of self-regulation of students in admission to universities and colleges. That's what got lost today. As a result, the negative, especially the negative, consequences are significant. As I have already pointed out, a significant part of the student population with frustration is looking at its professional choice because it was due to the fact that there was no free entry. And here to compare other countries that have significantly more colleges of different degrees of difficulty, different, true reputations, where perhaps the most prominent really have such restrictive models, but someone who has not been selected to Oxford for law, but can still apply to law at some university, at some university that is slightly less reputable and potentially succeeds in life. We don't have this option. Whoever's been expelled at the time of entry is eliminated forever. Especially since, if I'm correctly informed, they only have two students allowed. This seems unheard of and even unconstitutional. In my opinion, universities should also allow entry, of course with some additional requirements, so that a young person can, even if it happens to him, that he has not matured in time for his professional choice to change his decision. As an example of the wrong consequences, the bad consequences of restricting admission are precisely the situation in the field of training doctors. The Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana has always had, or I remember, the so-called 'numerus dausus' and that, in my opinion not because of, not so much in those days, it has filled up spatial and other reasons, but because it has worked extremely hard to exploit the medical profession. Through the system of education, restrictions of entry and also the study are somehow indoctrination of their students that they are at some exclusive study. All of this has had bad consequences for the students of the Faculty of Medicine themselves, who were often poorly involved in society, as well as for the online health situation in Slovenia. Today we are witnessing that, above all, northeast Slovenia does not have a significant proportion of doctors who have not been trained in Slovenia, which we have imported because of professional needs. This can certainly be avoided only by the establishment of a medical university in Maribor. That's why I think it's urgent. [[...]] [[It's not understandable.]] study medicine at the University of Maribor and introduce it into the national programme. [[...]] I do not agree with those parties who are trying to divorce the case with an additional decision, for which it is correctly concluded that the additional decision is a non-binding act. I think that Slovenia and its health needs and the Slovenian population deserve and it is right that the establishment of a medical university within the University of Maribor is introduced into the national programme for the development of higher education in Slovenia. In fact, this document wrongly states in the enemsegment that there were some restrictions, the right enrollment, the result of employment opportunities and the reference to a medical faculty. As we know, this was just an excuse for exclusivity, but in fact the situation is such that we have the largest imports of personnel in the field of this knowledge, mostly from the countries of the former Yugoslavia. Therefore, those who are users of such services are often handicapped. In fact, these doctors have not been familiar with Slovenian for a long time and because of this, the health care in some way is reduced in some way, in some way, by the intensity of their operation, to those which are needed by health services. I therefore reiterate that this restricted entry strategy in all areas is the wrong strategy. Most radically, this was shown by a medical university that has had this system for decades. The consequences of this limited entry and entry based on the results of the graduation are more devastating every day. I must point out, this year, for example, because of these devastating influences, and some others, the highest marks or the highest threshold in the high police school. Only the super dignitaries had access to a high-level police school. Thus, 93 points, according to those calculations based on the secondary result, were the threshold for admission to a higher police school. Do you feel that such anomalies are beneficial to Slovenia as a whole? I don't think it's going to hurt if there's a few more of them at the high police school that's really gonna be great. However, this body of young people should have equal opportunities in some other ways. Unfortunately, the current situation in Slovenia, the prospects for employment, the decline in natural science studies, and all of this has led to perhaps sometimes students, students who could achieve significantly more in some other comparative areas, entering an average of demanding studies and thus not taking advantage of their potential in life, and will suffer and suffer from the national corps. For this reason, I must point out once again that I am not fully satisfied with all the solutions that this strategy brings to these important issues in the development of higher education and the consequences of such development, as envisaged, should be borne in mind by the drafters of this national programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much. There are no more written applications for the debate. We continue to discuss MEPs and Members. Those who have not applied in writing are limited to five minutes. Who wants a word? Nobody? I don't see any particular desire for a debate, so I'm closing it. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments to the proposal for a national programme of higher education of the Republic of Slovenia, thirdly, of 19 February 2002 [[That's the material on the seven sides.]] . Besides, we have an amendment amendment on page 3, but I'll warn you about that by then. I am putting to the debate the amendment to point 2.1. We have here, as you can see from the material, an amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Closing the debate and moving to the vote on the amendment to point 2.1. Let's vote, please! Of the 53 present, 52 members and Members voted in favour. No one was against it. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are at point 2.1.3. We have an amendment here, too. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to point 2.1.3. Let's vote, please! Of the 56 present, 52 members and Members voted in favour. No one was against it. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted Point 2.1.7.a. We have an amendment here. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on this amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 54 present, 51 members and Members voted in favour. No one was against it. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Point 2.3.1. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. Let's vote, please! Of the 58 present, 58 Members and Members voted in favour! No one was against it. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are at point 2.3.3. One amendment is here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 55 present, 53 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We're at Amendment 2.3.5. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 53 votes in favour, one against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We're at the amendment under order number two. This is the amendment of the Committee on Culture, Education, Science, Youth and Sports. That's point two, here's your fix. This is an amendment from a group of Members, the first signed mag. Andrej Vizjak. Yes, an amendment to the board's amendment. By taking into account the real material. So we're at point two, the amendment to the amendment, number two, so point 2.3.5. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Can we get to the vote? [[Yes, you can.]] Let's vote, then. Of the 56 present, 53 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment to the amendment was accepted. We are now voting on the amendment at point three. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment under point three. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 54 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We're at 2.3.5.1, we have two amendments here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At this point, as colleagues and colleagues in this National Assembly, I would ask you to forget about what is on page four, who is supposed to be the proposer and to remember all the words spoken today, and to think carefully before pressing one of the three buttons: is it really an invasion of the autonomy of a university if we say that the medical faculty in Maribor should be? I think it is right to say yes, because we will commit ourselves and the state, in the national programme and in the subsequent accompanying acts, to actually take care of dispersion as well as quality and the number of doctors needed. Once again I invite you colleagues and colleagues, let's think thoroughly and this time together, if possible, say yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I think it's Mr. Mogue - you wanted to discuss it, don't you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u57	President, thank you so much for your word. It may seem strange, but I will object to this amendment and the next amendment because I belong to a party that has a democratic title. This content is not part of the national programme. As Chairman of the Education Committee, where we discussed these matters, I was present at a meeting that lasted several hours, where they gave an amendment to the University of Maribor, but after we had cleared the national programme, from the point of view of the Higher Education Act, on the basis of the opinion of the Secretariat and also on the basis of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we were replaced by an amendment adopted by the National Assembly as an amendment to the Committee and proposed by Mr Podobnik, as I know. Sam - I don't know - so I will do everything to make medicine possible as a study in Maribor, because I have enough of almost all my relatives studying in Graz because I have enough to have a college in Ljubljana, we have a clinic, we have a ministry, we have a boardroom, we have a union and we have an insurance company with 340 billion tolars. I was appointed myself - because I see that people raise their hand - by the Senate of the University of Maribor into a working group that prepared an elaborate on the establishment of a medical university and such an elaborate, as you know, must contain some things. Firstly, it must have an answer on the eligibility of the establishment and secondly, it must have a programme. Takelaborat already addressed the Senate of the University of Maribor, accepted it and put it into the procedure of the professional council of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Experts of the Republic of Slovenia has already discussed this issue or the Commission of the Section for Health and added certain comments to this paper, not objecting to this establishment, but improving this laboratory in certain points. This laboratory must have, in addition to the defined study areas, also the appropriate facilities provided, programme implementation equipment and provided higher education teachers, among other things. In these parts this thing is stuck and I think the people in Maribor are capable of repairing so much that this committee for health care will let it into the world for higher education and if it gives the world for higher education a positive opinion on this, then such an expert opinion will be given. We cannot discuss the professional sustainability of this place. That is why I am grateful to all Members of the National Assembly - and here we have reached a great consensus at the meeting of the Education Committee - to support the fact that in Slovenia, due to all the evidences that have been made in the past, which Mr Tsukati has mentioned several times before the Committee's High Education Programme, is critical to the study of medicine in Slovenia. That is why I am convinced that - and we will probably also support the decision that is being drawn up by the majority - that this will be the decision of the entire national assembly. It seems to me - forgive me - that making such an amendment is perhaps a somewhat plausible statement - after what has happened on the Committee on Culture, Education, Sports of the National Assembly, a little speculation or getting cheap political points. I, however, thank you, colleagues of the Social Democrats, for once again exposing this matter with this amendment. I'll take as much as I can to have this medicine in Maribor. I think so, but I personally believe that this is not part of the National Higher Education Programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u58	Replica, Mr Jerovšek, if I understand correctly. Mr. Sušnik, do you also have a replica or do you have a discussion? [[It's a debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, at this point, I have to replicate my colleague Mohet, in particular his opinion that the establishment of a medical faculty, which is an acute problem in Slovenia, lack of doctors in some parts of Slovenia, does not belong to the national programme. Even so, the first sentence of the chapter on the creation of new schools says that this cannot be true. If we are willing to respect this, then let us write down the establishment of a medical faculty in Maribor into a national programme and we will not violate any laws, no natural law, no national interests, but we will respect the authentic national interest if we write this down. Look. When more participatory, more partial interests show up somewhere in Ljubljana, everything is possible to realize those interests. We know what arguments were raised when the electric holding company was established; we know what arguments arise when it was established or that Ljubljana is buying a bank. And for Maribor, there are some restrictions, completely bureaucratic, I'd say. And I don't agree to these bureaucratic restrictions and to this bureaucratic restriction, which we know what the interests stand for, what the real purpose is. Although my colleague Moja is Chairman of the Education Committee, I am surprised that he has accepted this role that he must act against his own authentic interests here in the National Assembly. I must also protest what Mr Moge says is a cheap election point. We were fully active on the Education Committee and at that stage also supported the programme of the establishment of the Faculty in Maribor and the introduction of such a provision into the national programme, and it is not possible for us to be able to report that we were only later involved in this. We were the first to support the need to establish a medical university in Maribor, felt it and supported it. For this reason, I appeal to the Members from this town to support this thinking, which Mr Barovic has stated here, that at least in this important matter they should leave their narrow party views, views, and write something binding here. Mr Podobnik acknowledged that the additional decision is non-binding, that the national programme or law is a significantly more binding matter, and let us not avoid binding matters. Slovenia is rich enough, large enough and needs a medical cadre, and for this reason let us write a binding clause. I do not agree here and will not agree to resort to some "mild thirst", which are often additional conclusions. The Slovenian Government has not respected and ignored the additional decisions adopted in Parliament for the last eight or ten years. Tell me an additional decision that was taken and respected by the government! That's why I can't agree with such a "mild thirsty" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u60	Type of replica, if I have correctly noted, in this order: Mr Barovic, Mr Moge, Mr Pece, Mr Ašič - was this a replica or a debate? [[It's a replica.]] Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Rudy Mogo, also the chairman of the committee in which I am on my own, I still do not understand, despite the fact that we have talked a lot on the committee, why the national programme should not judge the obligation to set up a medical university at the University of Maribor. Why isn't it part of the national programme? Second question. Where, then, is the definition, if not in the national programme? What binding act will be the one that will promise Slovenia today to provide for more medical students? And thirdly, if I compare why not the definition of "university in Maribor, Faculty of Maribor" should be judged, if we have already accepted one of the amendments, in which we specifically listed not only the names of the places, but also the provinces. I myself remember when we adopted the national programme, I think that, when we have succeeded and put some precise definitions into this national programme, which will oblige both participants in transport and others to be educated in a specific place and in a specific way. And there is something else I would like to ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, as I mentioned in the opening discussion on behalf of the Group of Members. Let this debate not become a fight between Ljubljana and Maribor again. Don't let it become a fight! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. Pece, do you have a replica of Mr. Mojet perhaps? You're withdrawing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u63	You're withdrawing. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Lord Jerovšek, forgive first the word, how many a man is in his trousers. That's how I'd ask myself, after the mistrust of the minister, and after your actions, what kind of commission is somewhere else, because we know. But let's leave it, let me do what I think. I'm just doing my best. But that's not what I told you. It is true that you have been very helpful to the Socialists, including the champion of Social Democrats, Janez Janša, asked Minister Drnovšk a question here in public what he thinks about it. And for your efforts, I thank you for this, because it seems that we are fighting for the same goal, to be achieved and to be done. But the difference is in that, Mr Jerovšek. Look, you say here; "to be established." But if you look at the law on higher education, in which the procedure for the establishment of higher education institutions is precisely defined, it says that the National Assembly - that is, we will establish, but not with a national programme of higher education, but with a decree we will establish or by amending and supplementing the decision on the University of Maribor will establish us as its member, not as an independent institution, a medical college. Of course, conditions must be laid down for this. As politicians, we need to know precisely if this Member meets the conditions defined by the Higher Education Act. And if he meets them, we can set them up. It seems to me that sufficient maturity has been among some of the members of this assembly, that it has ordered the government to prepare a decision to give us a green light on the committee. And Mr Jerovšek, on the committee, we decided to prepare the government and next month, March, "the fall of the klap", an elaborat on how to establish a medical university at the University of Maribor. And once the professional bases are made, we will conclude about this and I would ask you then - so far your members have voted, and from Mr Tsukjati to all others who have been, always for a similar subject, such as the establishment of this university, and also then I ask you for support. I think it's a procedurally clear path, the right one. But if we were to go the other way now, Mr Jerovšek, so that we would be forced to write here, "be established", and that some wiseman would be, who would not want this medical faculty to be established in Maribor -- let's say he doesn't care about it, and he would object -- and this legal act that the National Assembly would give, would be judged by the appropriate court, then we did it to ourselves to delay this procedure so long as to probably -- there is a real chance that this college would set up 2003-2004 -- maybe this establishment would then be delayed in the future by such procedure. At least, as far as I know these things, it seems to me that this procedure is simply to reject this and to take appropriate decisions at this stage of the establishment of a new higher education institution, completely correct and one that I can stand behind every minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u65	Replica, Mr. Ashish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I applied for a replica of Mr Jerovšek's debate and also Mr Barovic's replica. I am grateful to Mr Mohet, who is like a Mariborian, who, of course, fully advocates the establishment of a medical university in Maribor, does not advocate the adoption of this amendment for the reasons he stated. I am also running a working group in the municipal council which deals with the establishment of one higher school, which is also in line with this national programme and with the amendment we adopted earlier, Mr Barovic, and which has nothing to do with what Amendment 2.5.3.1 says. Indeed, we have identified where and in which regions, at the existing two universities and the third, which are being prepared, it would make sense to establish higher and higher education centres. We have not written anything to establish or to establish them. For these centres will be established in accordance with Article 49 of the Law on Higher Education and the criteria and procedures issued by the Ministry of Education and Sport, I think also in 1995, and on the basis of which this laboratory is prepared. As far as I can understand Mr Mojet, this laboratory is in the final stage of preparation for consideration in the Professional Council for Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia. It is clear, then, that the University of Medicine in Maribor will be able to establish itself in accordance with all the laws adopted so far. For these reasons, of course, there is also no need for the next amendment, which speaks of a study centre in Celje, because it has already covered this amendment before, and even to my knowledge there is an elaboratory for this higher education centre already under consideration at the professional council for the education of the Republic of Slovenia and it is therefore absolutely unnecessary for such an amendment to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. More replicas of Mrs. Germich, Jerovšek, Barovic. Please, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. So, I thank Mr Tsukati, who, already in the framework of the report on the work of the Ministry of Education that we discussed last year, very clearly drew attention to this pressing problem and then also to the continuation of his efforts in this direction. Of course, I would like to replicate to Mr Jerovšek from this point of view, because to discuss today that we are some less Styjers than other Styjers, or less Mariborians than others - but given that I live there, I find it unfair. My position here was perfectly clear and it was also, I would say, presented through the presentation by the Group of Members. So in the national programme to write a clear commitment, for example, to the founders of colleges, which are clearly recorded in the law and which is guaranteed through the autonomy of universities and which Mr. Podobnik then also made clear through the first chapter of the Introduction and the purpose of the national programme, it does not seem right to me in this way, because the procedure for the establishment of colleges within universities is precisely prescribed. So this procedure is strictly prescribed. Through this process, which we clearly advocate, to be carried out as quickly as possible and, of course, through this process, to prepare as quickly as possible all the professional grounds for deciding on the basis of the establishment of the Faculty of Medicine within the framework of the University of Maribor. And here it seems to me that we are clearly talking about the fact that we are advocating that the University of Maribor through a professional evaluation and through the additions to this evaluation will, of course, infect those elements that may be missing, and that tomorrow the founding of this faculty could come, which we will then be able to confirm here in the National Assembly. For if we write into the national programme after anaology that we want to establish universities also within other universities, as my colleague Moze has already mentioned, of course in this case I do not think that this is part of the national programme. And, of course, compare the establishment of a university within the autonomous space of a university compared to the establishment of a holding company, but I don't think it was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I would like to evaluate Mr Mojet if he thought that I did not separate myself between the so-called doctrinal, strategic acts and legal or legal orders and decisions. In this case, we have a doctrinal act, a strategic act ahead of us. And that's why to get stuck in the dictatorship, in the word "established" in the amendment, it's totally "deceptive". A totally wrong view, completely unfounded, and this has absolutely nothing to do with the legal system in this area. It is a doctrinal act and it is possible here and it is also right that it is written in such words, for this does not specify the date, not the hour, nor the way of creation. This will be determined in other acts, which I hope will also be confirmed and adopted here in this National Assembly. However, in a binding way. I am aware of the pressure Mr Moge is under to take away his education committee. I heard that. Not just for that, not just for that. A lot of reactions and I understand a lot of things, including Mr. Germich. But what Mr Germič heard in my performance was not said: that I was making someone more Mariborian and more Styrian. That's not what I was talking about. But what you were meditating on at the time, and on that basis, is your problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I won't delay, I'd like to repeat to my respectable colleague, Mr. Auschwitz. By the way, if we're going to the vocabulary analysis, we're both talking about the physical definition of the place - where. In the amendment to point 2, on page 3, we have determined where. Similarly, Amendment 2.3.5.1 would determine where. I also do not understand that it must be stated in point 2.3.5.1 that it must be. Look, I'm not from Maribor alone. The University of Maribor prepared and expressed its freedom to establish a medical university. And I still didn't get - on a few questions I got the answers - but I still don't know why such a provision doesn't belong or shouldn't be in the national programme, because right now, respected colleagues also taught me that the national programme is actually a lower act than the law after the hierarchy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u73	Now we have a replica? [[...]] Mr. Azhitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u74	I would just like to suggest to Mr Barovic that he read point 2.3.5, where the first sentence reads: "The main tasks of the National Higher Education Programme are carried out by the University of Ljubljana and the University of Maribor."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you. Now we have two more debates, and the Secretary of State wanted a word, too, I think it is also right for him to get one. Mr. Germich, did you want to replicate? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Jerovsk would like to -- in terms of meditation, I don't think there's any need to object. However, I would like to explain some facts to Mr Barovic. When we discussed on the committee the amendment of the University, which proposed that we write into the national programme to set up the University of Maribor, the representative of this university, in view of the debate that was on the committee, withdrew this amendment on his own, for a simple reason, as I understand it, because he is aware of the autonomy of the university space, while taking all the procedures at the university to obtain a medical university in Maribor. Because the procedure, I repeat, for the establishment of a university within universities is perfectly established by law. And here I would also quote, I would say, two proposals by the Rector of the University of Maribor, who supports the letter of the amendment adopted by the Committee and then we have already confirmed it here, and at the same time also supports the additional decision or proposed an additional decision before he found out that we, as signatories of all four parties, have already tabled this additional decision to impose on the government and its expert bodies to check these professional designs for study as soon as possible, that we can decide on the establishment of this Faculty in Maribor. And it seems to me that this is the right way to get to a university within a university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. I don't understand why we shouldn't write in the national program, write down that we want to set up a medical university in Maribor. This is completely incomprehensible to me in the fact that you all agree that we need it, that we still need it, that we lack doctors, and that this needs to be arranged. Just as I do not understand that the second reading already rejected the addition of this national programme in terms of our desire to establish a public institution - a regional and higher education centre based in Celje. Because of this misunderstanding, I have also proposed this second amendment, which we have tabled on behalf of the parliamentary group, which is a practical, logical continuation of Chapter 2.3.5, where we have written with the amendment adopted, that the network of higher education and higher education centres, the establishment or development of these centres in the regions should be maintained and strengthened in the future, and that we have written: Celje, Novo mesto - in rounding - will be supported by the country at the time of the input of local communities or the economy. That's what we wrote. At the same time, everyone or I hope that we will also write: "A public institution is established regionally higher - and a higher education centre based in Celje". Unfortunately, I must conclude that my fellow Members from the Savina statistical region have made a similar amendment in their second reading or have not supported it - but this is one of the things that I do not understand because they have at the same time taken part in their municipalities in adopting a regional development programme to reach this higher education or higher education centre. See, when we discussed the national programme of higher education of the Republic of Slovenia at second reading, we were in the Savini statistical region at the stage of signing the letter of intent. At the moment, most of the 32 municipalities - according to the latest data - are only three or four of those who have not yet adopted a decision establishing a regional higher and higher education centre based in Celje - with the knowledge and the fact that this new higher education centre will also be supported by the state. What message will we send to this region if we do not make this clear and loud in the national programme, I wonder. And I think this question is still justified. I would also like to add that when we adopt the regional development programme, here we have taken a step forward in front of others, given first place to human resources and the related development of higher education. To reach an extremely high consensus here that this development programme was adopted in all municipalities forming the Savini statistical region, that this regional development programme was not last confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that it is consistent with the regional development policy of Slovenia. In all of these cases, a higher - higher education centre in Celje has been established. Our intention was confirmed to establish a higher education centre in accordance with the Regional Development Programme. Therefore, I ask you to support this other amendment, so that this intention is also included in the national development programme for higher education of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that if this is not the case, local communities will be deprived of their aspirations to develop higher education. The regional development programme will not come to life. However, the situation in which this higher education centre will remain without clearly defined status in the national development programme is another issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Cuckoo, the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Well, I would ask that we go a little deeper into the amendment itself, namely the amendment reads: "In view of the needs of the state due to the lack of health personnel, a medical faculty is established within the framework of the University of Maribor." Nothing says when, nothing says about all those criteria that such a college must meet to be established: it imposes only on the State a financial obligation to carry out this programme - nothing else. Look. In the same document we also establish the third Slovenian University. We're stopping, though not with that word. It says in the chapter, "not only is it a place to establish a third Slovenian university", but so literally, "its founder will be the Republic of Slovenia. All options must also be considered, etc. The conditions for this step, which, within the framework of the legislative powers, is being monitored and evaluated by the Higher Education Council." It is said that this programme can be established in Primorsk, it cannot be established here. In both cases, it obliges the country to do so, nothing else. Mr Mogue, I don't know, I would like to convince you that if it isn't accepted as we suggest, then we're going to bet on three large radgon pennies that you won't have a college by the end of this term and not in the next term. Definitely. In fact, just for example, I'll tell you how things happen in healthcare in another area, in the field of specialization. Each year or year, he or she needs to specialize in 250 to 300 doctors in order to obtain the staff of specialists we need in Slovenia. By 2006, all general doctors who are not specialists will have to specialize. This is what the European Union requires, unfortunately, it is. We should now have a permanent not 250, but 550 specialists who specialize in work, but it costs something. For the past three years, the Medical Board has been asking for 500 additional millions. 500 million, that's 250, 300 billion health funds, not that kind of money. He doesn't get it, and we're not gonna run this program. There's no money. There is no money because there is no legal obligation, because it is not included in the health programme, nor will there be any money. I tell you that these two arguments, which prevent or prevent the establishment and prevent the establishment of the Maribor Faculty of Medicine, will remain - this is that there is no money, and secondly that Ljubljana does not want and behaves, according to the statements of the representative of the Ljubljana University, it will defend itself with all means because it acts as a monopoly and will protect its monopoly; and it will perhaps raise the number of entries for 10, for 20, and joke the entire Slovenian nation to save it, and in fact Maribor will, unfortunately, remain without a university. I'm not a Mariborian, and I don't need any Maribor votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u81	Replica, Mr. Ashish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u82	Mr Tukjat, in fact, you have answered that fundamental question yourself, what we are accepting when you said it was writing somewhere, that we will be trying to establish a third university in Slovenia, and you have rightly found this, because the state is really establishing universities, and two have long been established, one is yet to be established. And within the framework of this one, which is in Maribor, this university is supposed to establish a medical university. And that's what Mr. Moge told you a few times before. I think that we are leading the debate and replicas in this article in order to do some political show, because I have not heard any of it against the medical faculty in Maribor. Of course, some would like us to write this with a national act, while the process of establishing a university involves a slightly different path. I am alone with the heart of this college and will support all those activities that will be necessary. When the law on financing higher education comes up, we're gonna have to say something, maybe ever again. This time it's not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you. Now I would like to ask that we give the floor to our colleague Dr. Peyovnik, who will explain some of the issues that have been opened today. Mr. Mogue, you want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u84	I'll be very brief. Mr Tuckati, I appreciate you for all your efforts on the Education Committee. Indeed, this is one of the results. However, for the creation of a third - it does not say, it says that this area is a potential area for the creation of a third - it is a potential space. Similarly, in our amendment, which we have already adopted, we wrote that "special attention is devoted in particular to this, with the possibility to study medicine in particular needed to be resolved as soon as possible". And if a decision is taken, which we have finally said, and if we are honest with the Members, then we will work and I believe that we will also take the appropriate decision. And I'm definitely taking that bet with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you. Now, Dr. Peynovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to make it perfectly clear that the government supports the amendment of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. As far as I am aware, this amendment is also supported by the University of Maribor. In the case of the regional higher education centre in Celje, I will explain some things. The Regional Higher Education Centre in Celje has been established in the interim since our last discussion. The decree is published in Official Journal No 6, 25.1.2002. And the government then opposed the amendment to establish a public institution, but did not oppose the establishment of regional centres. And it's the same in this case. The government opposes the direct appointment of the establishment of a medical faculty, as the secretariat of the National Legislative Assembly has also been alerted to the inadequacy of such an amendment at the committee debate, which has already been mentioned several times today. Of course, I must say that the National Assembly, so that you, Members of Parliament and gentlemen, will be the one who will make the last and only monetary decision on the establishment of this university when you take the decision to reshape the University of Maribor. It is our duty to prepare for you all the professional grounds that will be necessary, among others, for you to make quality and appropriate decisions. So to take this seriously, I'm going to give you two details. No one from the Ministry has ever publicly or privately opposed the proceedings. That's what I think you're convinced of. Secondly, on 15 January, the Senate of the University of Maribor adopted a decision to establish itself to join the establishment of a medical university, the University of Maribor. On 18 January, at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, we received an elaborate. On 12 February, the expert committee of the Board of Higher Education first discussed the elaborate. I don't think it's ever been that fast before. So, proven by the Ministry, Mr Jerovšek, we have made sure that we have reacted very seriously as soon as possible. And in the end, there's only one short piece of information. Last year, in 2001, he graduated from the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana with 161 doctors, graduated 54 and graduated 49. These must certainly be the figures to be considered, so the Ministry is also taking this issue very seriously and professionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Kelemina, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. Not intentionally, but in view of what has been said now, I would ask, however, for speed and everything you have explained yourself, that there is something incomprehensible and extraordinary, but I would still ask that we should put an end to this debate as soon as possible and this debate: what are the options or what will be the procedure below, or what can be expected; how the funds for this and so on are provided in the State budget, so that this university, in fact or this university, will somehow be trained by this academic year, in 2002-2003. Are these objective expectations or not? Let's say that again, and we'll probably wrap this up soon if you make a positive promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you. Any other Members and Members? Mr. Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u90	I have not been convinced, nor have I been persuaded, by the performance of the Secretary of State. I believe that the ministry is active in this preparatory phase, but we have too much political experience and too much experience with the current degree of centralisation pressure in this country. And also with the concern of Members, probably given that they have an important session today, where they are shivering at the thought of the field. In fact, I must tell Mr Ašić that he is a happy man who, in his naiveness, believes that the University of Maribor will be without the fact that the medical faculty will be clearly and loudly in this national programme, with the easily established Faculty of Medicine in Maribor because of this, because if we do not put this in the national programme, I am sure that Mr Tsukaj should raise his bet considerably because it is obtained. In the following years, the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor will not be available and for two champagnes to bet it is quite insufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u91	Three were said, by the way. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u92	It is almost awkward to appear in a discussion when, in fact, only one answer is expected: 'Say yes', whether it is consistent, whether it meets the conditions or is right or wrong, it does not matter. Somehow, lately, some manners have hosted that there must always be a "for" and a "against". I think that the position with which the amendment is rejected and the position with which an additional decision is confirmed is one that is, in fact, the only consistent in this case. But, of course, what does it mean to do the national programme as you suggest? So, does this mean that tomorrow, when there's another college need, it won't be because there's no basis in the national programme? For this is a law which stipulates how certain universities are established within universities. And I think it's actually in this kind of excitement that I respect and I appreciate that you want to fix something that's burning, which is a problem that's expected, but in spite of everything, you can't, in my opinion, be so excited that you bury what's basic. The national programme opens the framework, the law lays down the procedures, the law lays down the conditions and, of course, the national assembly is the one who ultimately confirms it. Believe me, I know the political situation in this country and that the university, medically, will be in Maribor. This is my opinion, and I am firmly convinced of this, even on the basis of what I know, as an expert basis, etc. Therefore, of course, there is no fear, if nothing else, you will force the decree. Because, after all, even if it is written in the national programme, there will not be a medical faculty in Maribor, but there will be another lapsus - or absurd or whatever - in making the kind of decisions that we are also making here, and only in this mandate is it in my opinion that I will not say the number, but even a number of things have been taken, which then were not realized because they could not be realized as expected. That is why I am firmly convinced and once again I say undeniably: unlike those who think that the medical faculty in Maribor will not, I think it will be - but it must only be under the conditions provided for by the law. Rudy tells me, Mr. Mogue, that it's probably 2002 hard because he knows because he's been working for decades on education, how some thing can be done. But as soon as that happens, it is likely that the National Assembly - even if you want to make it a priority - will put a decree on the agenda and I will support it on behalf of this same group if I have this opportunity then. Of course, this does not diminish in any way - this decision is now the importance of the LDS Council meeting, which will be in half an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you. I would suggest that we move on to the vote and that yes, we're not leaving yet. [[...]] Mr. Peche. Excuse me. There'll be an explanation of the voice when it's time. Good. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I just want to ask you something more complementary, Mr. Peyovnik. In the discussion I had earlier, it was clear that the higher education centre or higher education centre had already been established because I said that the creation decree had been adopted - I think 28 or 29 of the 32 municipalities. However, this does not convince me or I simply cannot accept an argument against this being included in the national programme. I would now like to ask you directly why this is bad, that the fact that Celje has established a higher education or higher education centre is written in the national programme. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you. Dr. Peyovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The answer is relatively short. According to Slovenian legislation, public institutions are established according to certain procedures, while the National Assembly can write in its national programme that regional centres are necessary for the regional development of the country. I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the process of adopting the budget you have also allocated additional funds to the regional higher level - and to the higher education centres, which will also receive state aid due to your decision at the time of the budget. I assure you, however, that the Ministry wants to act properly and on the basis of professional arguments, which means that we must first prepare a network of higher education in Slovenia, make an accurate analysis - this is done - and then the committee led by Mr Moze, with this network and our proposals, take a look at and act accordingly. We'll do it as soon as possible. Further answer to the Member on the questions about what funding is earmarked and so on. I'm sorry I can't give you any numbers right now. As you know, the Committee has asked the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to prepare these professional bases. A working group has been set up to work very intensively in this area and will shorten the deadline and we will come to you with this information in the middle or the end of March at the latest. The argument is, and we're gonna be behind these numbers. I don't have them right now, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you. Can we conclude the debate now? Thank you. It concludes the debate. Voice explanation, Mr. Pache. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I will vote in favour of the amendment. I will vote for the amendment because I believe in the need for a medical faculty or an existing amendment, and because I know that the desire for it is not only in the city of Maribor, but in the wider area. And because I believe that the adoption of this amendment would not have a negative impact on future developments in the establishment of this school, as it is today trying to show the rest of the Members liberal democracy. I think that the National Assembly should take this constructive step and support the amendment and thus achieve in the national programme that we will begin the process of establishing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you. So we're going to the vote. First, we vote on the first amendment to point 2.3.5.1. We're voting, please. Of the 57 present, 21 Members and Members voted against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 2. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 20 Members and Members voted against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 31.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're at point 2.3.6 where there's an amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 16 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 24.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Point 4.5.1, en amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 53 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Point 4.5.3, en amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 56 present, 53 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Point 4.7, en amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 53 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Point 4.9, en amendment. Anybody want a word, please? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 49 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have here an amendment to Title VI. Chapters. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted Point 6.1.5.3, one amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present were 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We're at the first table, here's an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 46 present, 46 members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Second table, here's an amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to the second table. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 45 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are done voting on the amendments. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if, due to the amendments adopted, the mutual coherence of the national programme has been violated. [[It's not.]] Then we can go to the vote on the national programme as a whole. So we are voting on the national programme as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 56 present, 53 members and Members voted in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 0.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We have an additional decision, which is why, with regard to the national programme, the LDS, the United Lists, SLS and DeSUS, additional decisions have been tabled. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed additional decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on an additional decision. Let's vote, please. Of the 58 present, 56 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The additional decision is thus adopted and we have concluded this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government for their participation. We move on to the 1st DOT OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LAW OF POOR - A SHORT PROCEDURE. The proposal for a code was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with first-signed John Janša. Does a representative of the bill's proponents want a word? Please, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u100	Respectable, colleagues and colleagues. This is a very short law that is proposed because in our view it is in the basic text of the maritime code [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u101	May I ask for peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u102	Now, colleagues and colleagues from LDS, your meeting will only start at six, and now it's a meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u103	Well, let's stop these between calls of all kinds and please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u104	It's no problem, Mr. Jakič, that you're here, but that you're loud. In short, the bill amends or proposes a change to the maritime code, a more specific article which, in our view, without any further explanation - the government says, by mistake - has stolen the ban on the nuclear power of ships into Slovenian territorial waters. Such a general prohibition in the maritime code is, in our view, pointless for two reasons. For the first time, because it is always necessary to influence any military ship in our waters that the Slovenian Government or the competent ministries have a concrete agreement. It is said that, whether or not a general prohibition is in this Code, the government’s authorization for each specific military ship is necessary to influence it. Secondly, such a prohibition is pointless because if someone tried or wished to infiltrate our territorial waters with such a ship without specific permission or without the procedures provided for it, this general provision or prohibition in the maritime code would not have prevented it. So the only consequence of such a general prohibition in the maritime code is the problems that arise, of course, for the first time when it comes to Slovenian integration into NATO, and for the second time when it would be possible for the concrete assistance that Slovenia would need, which would be linked to the influence of such ships or such ships, and would prevent such a general prohibition in the law. On the committee, when we discussed amending the maritime code, we also discussed the amendments of the government. The government has made some amendments, which are essentially contradictory and even superfluous. They do not change the content in this sense in order to improve it in any way. In our opinion, they are irrelevant because they are separating, they are trying to separate, in at least one article, a nuclear ship from a military nuclear ship. For the time being, I don't think there are any merchant nuclear ships. But anyway, at the board meeting, a government representative resigned from these amendments, and then we received a notice, a written notice that this resignation was cancelled. So, if I understand correctly, we should also be deciding today on these amendments of the government that we are not on the committee or who have not been designated because the government has resigned from them. Once again, they are partly irrelevant, and partly illogical, as the secretariat has also pointed out. I would also like to say that, of course, at this stage of science and technology development, each nuclear device poses a certain risk. Therefore, the debate on whether a permit to influence a foreign nuclear ship or a nuclear-powered ship into Slovenian waters poses a risk or not cannot simply get an answer to our opinion: yes or no. Each nuclear device today is linked to a certain level of risk and the real question in this regard is whether this level of risk is acceptable. Given that we have an uninterrupted nuclear power plant operating on our territory or with interruptions, this facility represents a significantly higher level of risk than the occasional impact of a nuclear ship. This rejection of change by this argument, in our view, has no real basis. On behalf of the applicants, I call on us to adopt this very short amendment to the maritime code and thus to remedy the deficiencies which have crept into the maritime code, probably also due to the very long adoption procedure and unfortunately, in this procedure, the only one who knew about it, this article or the details in this article was the one who wrote it. All the others who advocated it did not mention it, and even in the debate itself this fact simply did not appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The proposal for a code was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion. Here you go, Mr. Gerencher.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At its 19th meeting, on 11 January this year, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment considered a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the maritime code submitted to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Janez Janša. In the context of the general debate, the majority of members of the Committee supported the proposal for amendments and the completion of the maritime code, as well as the consideration and adoption of the short-term procedure. The view was expressed that this contributes to our aspirations for early entry into the European Union and NATO and that, in fact, this proposal is a law-abiding fact. However, regret was expressed that such a proposal had not been made at the time of the adoption of the maritime code last year, remember that it had been dealt with for a long time since the procedure would have been simpler and less exposed. On the contrary, the opinion of one committee member, who did not support the legislative changes and not the proposed amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was particularly exposed because he believes that it is not a minor amendment to the law of the sea but an overturn, I will even say 180 degrees. The opinion is that we do not have a charter to show that we need to allow the nuclear power of naval vessels to enter NATO before they enter. However, if this is a condition, it is necessary to inform the public. In the discussion below, the members of the Committee considered that, if it were to be determined that the proposed amendment and addition to the maritime code were not supported, the position of Slovenia should be broadly defined as to what nuclear policy was being advocated. If we already wanted to ban the entry of nuclear vessels and nuclear-weapons vessels into our waters, it would be more worth considering that the entire Adriatic Sea area, especially the Gulf of Markets, would be defined as non-nuclear. Slovenia is in an important period of NATO accession and is at all crucial this year. On the basis of the general debate, the Committee adopted its first decision to agree with the consideration and adoption of the proposal for amendments and the completion of the maritime code by means of a reduced procedure. In the context of the debate on individual articles and the legislative proposal, the Committee, on the basis of the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, adopted only one amendment to the title of the law. The Committee did not define itself until the Government's amendment, as the withdrawal of these amendments was announced at the Committee's own meeting, and I hope that the Government's representative will explain them because, as we know, they are also in the procedure for this adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u108	Madam President, on behalf of the Government, I accept the criticism that was originally expressed. Of course, I would also, if it were allowed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, an editorial improvement, both the basic text and the amendments of the government, but I will not do so. However, I can say that if there is a new reason for addressing the changes and supplementing this maritime code in a short time, then we will do so. It is a matter of the fact that, in Article 3, between the definitions of a nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered nuclear-powered I'd end it with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? There's no written application for that. That's what you say, Mr. Kacin on behalf of the LDS. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the amendment and completion of the maritime code. We regret that the government has failed to do so. I'm not sure that's true what I said, but it happened that there was a need for an amendment or a change of law. There's a lot of reasons for that, but I'll give them a little bit. Firstly, nuclear-powered vessels have already been in our territorial waters by our independence. In Cyprus, thousands visited the ship, I hope, more than ten thousand people, and it was very well visited, for most people very interesting. And I think that if Slovenia persisted in the solution currently in force, they would be twofold. While we have, as has already been said in the introduction, a nuclear facility whose activity we have extended by modernising far into this century would be known when it comes to the temporary navigation of a nuclear-powered vessel or nuclear weapons. Secondly, we were very tired of these vessels entering our territorial waters at a time when this was appropriate for us because of the restless situation in south-east Europe. At that time, we were all pleased that the United States of America, with the presence of such vessels, had demonstrated support for the Republic of Slovenia. Something like this can happen again in the future. And now it's some sort of banal case. You imagine we're going to make a deal? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u111	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u112	You can imagine that we will reach an agreement when we export low- and medium-radioactive waste temporarily stored in Krske, on the sea route and have to be transported to Kopra, loaded on a vessel. If we don't accept this change, something might happen to us so that we can be embarrassed again. For even in this case it is nuclear fuel, it is low- and medium-acting waste. Therefore, it seems to me that it is right and consistent for us to overcome this mistake as soon as possible and eliminate it. Therefore, once again: the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia will support the amendment and completion of the maritime code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I'll support this marriage, but I have the impression it's a little superficially written. In fact, there is talk of ships and submarines are not ships, but they are vessels. This is probably how we should talk about nuclear vessels, not just nuclear warships. At least, I think. There's one more thing that doesn't convince me and I want to explain. It is clear from this text that it is a nuclear-powered vessel, but it is not a talk of nuclear-powered vessels but of nuclear-powered vessels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Mamic in the name of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We have mostly heard the main reasons, so I will not repeat now what we have heard. Our Group of Members believes that this law is supported. Given that even if we don't support him, we haven't gotten enough of it. In fact, if a nuclear ship - let's say it's dangerous - if it comes into the Adriatic Sea and sails through Italian waters, it can't go east for five kilometers, I don't know what the difference is. I'm telling you, I won't repeat other things. We're backing up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you. Now other applications for Mr. Pece, on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[...]] Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u119	I'm sorry, I gave Mr. Pechet my word. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u120	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you. Very briefly: we do not support the bill in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. Given that our parliamentary group or party supports Slovenia's entry into NATO, we are aware that we cannot be one on the one hand, the other on the other, we will also support the amendment of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Levič on behalf of the youth party - SMS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we oppose the amendment of Article 8 of the Maritime Code to allow the passage of our territorial waters to foreign nuclear-powered ships and nuclear-weapon ships. We are convinced that there are sufficient opportunities for all nuclear weapons and nuclear-powered ships in the ports of the countries of the owners of these ships and weapons. We also do not see any real need for NATO liaison representatives to visit us, right on nuclear-powered ships and nuclear weapons on board, because all the world's military powers have a sufficient number of ships whose propulsion and weapons are not as controversial as nuclear. In the Young Slovenia Party, we do not agree with the proposer that the restrictions on the navigation of foreign military ships and submarines on nuclear power pose problems in the integration of the Slovenian Union into NATO. So far, no representative of the NATO liaison has pointed out this obstacle to our information. In this proposal in the Young Slovenia Party, we see only the desire for advance accommodation and the serviceability of our country, which is unacceptable and unnecessary. Slovenia has not yet been invited to NATO, and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have not yet decided to support the integration of NATO in the referendum. And these are two fundamental arguments that speak in favour of completely pre-empting events and adapting our legislation to a state that does not exist at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-26-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. At the same time, it's 18 o'clock. So for tomorrow, we have two written submissions to the debate first, and that is why I am concluding the work of the National Assembly today. Tomorrow at ten we continue with this point and then on the agenda. Goodbye.
