ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Bojan Kontič, Andrej Vizjak, Franc Kangler, Yuri Malovrej for the start of the session, Aloise Peterle, Victory Jelinčič Nobility, Sašo Peče from 16.00 p.m. on, Majda Spend from 16.30 p.m. on, Roman Jakič, Dorian Marshič, Anton Partljič for the start of the session, Milan Kopušar, Valentin Pohorec, Franc Čebulj and Cyril Pucko for the start of the session. Since we're going to be able to determine the presence in the hall, I'd like to ask you to insert the cards. There's a number 44 on the screen. I think there's more of us in the hall. Thank you very much. May I have your attention, please, because we'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. We're detecting a presence. There are 49 of us present, so the assembly is concluded and may decide. We also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting. I very much welcome the Minister, the Secretary of State and the Secretary. Today's continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local self-government, and then to deal with the remaining cases concerning local self-government, which is up to and including point 7a. We therefore move on to the 3rd item of the agenda Procedural proposal, Mr Podobnik, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm taking advantage of the opportunity to make a procedural proposal so that a complication doesn't take place later. I would warn you at points 6 and 6a, because the Vice-President has stated that we will treat all the points in the so-called package of local self-government in order. Point 6 is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and determining their areas and point 6.a is conditional on a decision of the Constitutional Court. I have before me a provision of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and for the determination of their areas, which states in Article 4: "The procedure for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas may be carried out once in the period between the two regular elections in the municipal councils." In order to avoid later interpretation that, by adopting and establishing, for example, the municipality of Šmartno near Lithuania, we have in some way completed the procedure for the establishment of municipalities during this period, and this will be an additional argument for discussion that we will not deal positively with those cases imposed on us by the Constitutional Court, I would suggest that we replace points 6a and 6 in order to therefore decide first what the Constitutional Court has committed us to, and then on the law establishing the municipalities. That's all I'm suggesting is a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Parallel, of course, that's possible. Would you like me to make a procedural proposal to place the 6th before the 6th vote of the National Assembly? Your Honor! Mr Podobnik's procedural proposal that point 6.a, these are the points relating to the proposals for the establishment of municipalities, as we have in the consolidated agenda, is discussed before point 6, which is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and setting up their areas, I am making this procedural proposal for a decision. Therefore, point 6.a is considered and decided before point 6. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. It's 39 votes against 3. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. So point 6.a will be treated before point 6, as follows from a purified agenda. However, of course, my forecast from point 3 to point 7.a is as we have already decided. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT LAW, REDUCTION OF PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr. Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have before you a proposal to amend and supplement the law on local self-government. We also propose a shorter procedure. In order to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision concerning the rights of the Roma community living in Slovenia, we propose a shorter procedure, while aligning the Law on Local Self-Government with the Law on Local Elections and the European Charter on Local Self-Government with those amendments. I would also like to say that the law is also strongly linked to this year's local elections, because we are dealing with some of the related issues. Maybe there's this in the introduction. The new law, which is proposed after a reduced procedure, is not, of course, a comprehensive revision of the legal regime, the legal system of municipalities in Slovenia. This, however, can be expected in the Ministry of the Interior. A new law on municipalities is being prepared in the local government office. This is mainly because the text before you, of course, was unable to take into account a number of comments, not even individual municipalities, on the construction of a new system of local self-government or municipalities, because it is a novel that is adopted for certain reasons, following a reduced procedure. A more comprehensive revision of this will take the form of a law on municipalities that the government will submit to Parliament in the autumn of this year. Allow me to make a few brief comments on the content, however, to draw your attention. The first innovation to take place is the so - called congregational alliances. As a result of the conduct of local affairs, it is possible to pool, then also to pool resources and jointly manage various organisational forms. The union is not a new form of local community, but is only a legal person of public law through which the common interests of the communes connected are coordinated. The second question is the question of representative associations. Instead of the so-called national association, we introduce the status of a representative association for the integration of municipalities for the sake of common interests. In this regard, he had quite a discussion on the criteria of representativeness. In the basic text, you have as a criterion a fifth of municipalities or at least 150,000 inhabitants. The Internal Policy Committee adopted an amendment amending the criteria by one quarter of the municipalities and one quarter of the population, adding the obligation for both associations to achieve this within three years at the latest. Let me say that the government can support such a definition of criteria and that they are within the concept that we have advocated in determining the status of representativeness. The following is related to the status or mandate of municipal officials. In the case of alternative or early elections, the definition proposed is to terminate the term of office of all other Slovenian municipalities, which means that local elections shall be held at the same time every four years for all municipalities. This is also linked to a transitional provision explicitly linked to this year's elections, which refers to the Municipality of Koper. This provision provides for elections to be held in the Koper Congregation this year, that is, in the autumn of 2002. The following news relates to the link between this law and the State Administration Act. We would like to include some provisions linking municipal administrations into the public administration system. It is explicitly stated that the administrative tasks of the municipalities are carried out by the municipal administration, which is directed and supervised by the mayor, and the work of this administration is managed by the secretary, making this distinction more clear, which has caused problems in practice in a number of municipalities so far. The new provision is also Article 7, which extends the possibility of municipalities participating in administrative work and thus provides a legal basis for the possibility of establishing joint bodies, common services of the municipal administration - this will be interesting especially for small municipalities and for those who wish to achieve more rational performance of administrative tasks through the pooling of professional services. The following news is linked to the municipal inspection. In particular, it is a matter of harmonising the arrangements for the operation of the municipal inspection with also in the procedure submitted, in the third reading, to the law on inspection, which also concerns the functioning of municipal inspections in its work. It may be important to mention the valuable provision that requires before the finalisation of laws and regulations which in any way interfere with the situation of municipalities, the obligation to cooperate with representative associations and the compulsory acquisition by the basic text of the consent of the Minister responsible for local self-government in the event of such legislative changes. The Internal Policy Committee has adopted an amendment here, which the Government does not object to introducing an opinion instead of a consensus on whether the consultations have been carried out sufficiently. Another area relates to the novel, which is the question of wages, namely the management bodies of public institutions, businesses and funds, and the agencies of which the municipality is the founder. An arrangement is proposed whereby the basic salaries of the management bodies would be limited by the level of the mayor's salary. However, as you probably know, the Internal Policy Committee has also adopted an amendment that changes the rates and remuneration of mayors. This amendment is, as far as the wage levels it brings are concerned, in line with the law on the public sector wage system, and the non-compliance of the provision would, in particular, be in a time-conformity - the law on the public sector wage system should enter into force at the outset of 1.1.2004, when conditions for its entry into force have arisen, and the adoption of this amendment would move the mayor's salary increase, otherwise in accordance with this law, to a period that is significantly closer and would thus lead to an earlier or time-consuming resolution of this issue, given what is envisaged for the whole public sector. For this reason, and also for the reason explained in the special report on the financial implications of this amendment - you have probably noticed a report in the materials that speaks of a billion 116 million annual cost of such an increase - which is why the government has reservations to or does not support this amendment. Another important issue is, in fact, the novel, the issue of the rights of Roma communities in relation to the functioning of municipal councils. In the proposal prepared, there are 20 congregations listed in taxi, for which the relevant government service has found that there are congregations in which the Roma community resides. In addition, the Internal Policy Committee has adopted two additional arrangements. On the one hand, a more precise procedure by which Roma would receive a representative in the municipal world, namely the condition of the social organisation of the Roma. Furthermore, the amendment on additional means to ensure the situation of Roma communities. As for the first amendment on the social organisation of the Roma as a condition, let me say that such an amendment can be supported by the government because it is within the debates or the concept that we had before our eyes when we formulated this standard. So much for the introductory explanation of this novel, to be adopted in a simplified procedure. And I suggest that the National Assembly back this up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the board, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. My explanation or presentation of the report will be much shorter than the report itself. As you've noticed, the report covers 9 pages. And of course, there has been some minor error, but you have been alerted by the correction of this report. And this is in a line where there is talk, which amendments have been endorsed by the committee and which have not been supported. First of all, I will say that you can see in paragraph 1 how long this matter has been lingering, so to speak, on the Committee on Internal Policy, which, of course, goes on to think, and it is also correct that all three of the key issues governed by this law have been thoroughly debated that opinions have been completely diametric many times. I would also point out that, in accordance with section 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government, the President of the National Assembly gave the local communities an opinion first, which they also formulated. In addition, as you can see in the report, we have invited both representatives of the Slovenian Association of Municipalities and representatives of the municipalities of Slovenia, as well as representatives of the Association of Secretaries of Slovenian municipalities, to the meeting. To the law itself, the secretariat has added - that is another, you have a legal opinion under number II. And most of what was due to some, probably, speed, the proponent then corrected with his amendments. On all three key issues and, of course, on the issue of wages, the debate was rich, as I have said, but in the end, to say so, the Committee adopted a majority opinion by voting, thus proposing that legislation should be adopted after a reduced procedure, because, of course, it is particularly urgent for it, the second to adopt all the amendments supported or formulated by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia will be presented to us by Bogomir Vnučec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary! Local self-government is an indicator of the democracy of one country, according to the Council of Europe, the cornerstone of every democracy. If we look at today's bill through this definition, we can only find that it is far from true democracy. After a reduced procedure, we are once again changing the fundamental roof law, the law on local self-government, at least eight years in less than 10 years. We're putting out fires after drops, but there would be a need for a concrete change. It is true that the reform of local self-government is a long process and is also taking place in countries with a long tradition of local self-government slowly. Sadly, however, it is totally subordinate to our current political interests. The territorial component is always at the forefront, i.e. territorial, rather than precisely defining the powers and organisation of new municipalities and then forming them. But what happened was. It is likely that the only solution is to correct the mistakes backwards and to clarify the provisions more precisely, but above all there is a possibility of a corrective examination by introducing the provinces. All with a view to achieving the stated objectives of the reform of local self-government. These objectives, which are recorded, can also be expressed by a number, with money. This means that the target will be achieved when 30% to 50% of public spending is spent in the local self-government system, not just 10% as it is now. This can only be achieved by decentralisation and recognition of the role of local self-government and by eliminating the understanding of local self-government as a service for the parties and the mayoral lobby. That is why we are seriously thinking in the Party of Young Slovenia to propose a change in the way mayors are elected, in accordance with the practice of most European Community countries, where mayors are not elected directly, but elected by the municipal council from among themselves. In this way, we would save part of the money for the elections and at the same time ensure that the elected mayor has the majority guaranteed in the municipal council and, in the event of possible violations of laws, early withdrawals or other reasons for termination, would provide for a simple replacement without financial implications for municipal budgets. The possibility of directly electing the mayor from the opposite political option as the majority in the municipal world should be discontinued. If we had adopted the concept of an indirectly-loved mayor, we would have prevented undesirable conflict situations, such as the case of the municipality of Velika Polana, where the Constitutional Court is now the one to decide whether local self-government will be possible for the inhabitants of the municipality, or whether they will be affected by their right to be represented by the local community's authority, which they elected in the elections directly. Under the current legislation, the Mayor's replacement is virtually impossible, as we have already seen in this national council. If an indirect method of electing the mayor had been introduced, critics from abroad, such as the Council of Europe, whose Congress of Local and Regional Authorities had already pointed out the particular problem of existing legislation, the specific provisions of the law on the discharge of the mayor and the municipal council. We therefore welcome the Government's intention to put in place the right way in the proposed province law for the election of the president of the province, this is an indirect election. Even more so, we would be happy and even more beneficial if we today were to change the law where it really is necessary, that is to say, in the mayors' elections, but not to talk about their higher salaries. In the Youth Party, we will not support the proposed changes to the law in the work that increases the salaries of mayors. We believe that these are already large enough to take into account that the mayors, in addition to their regular salary, also have a 50% wage feature allowance, the constant use of a service car, a representative car and other minor benefits. We think we should start thinking in the opposite direction. So if the salaries of the secretaries of the municipality are higher than the mayor, we should think about reducing the salaries of the secretaries, not going to increase the salaries of the mayors we think in the Youth Party that they are already high enough. We will therefore support the proposed amendments to the law where the system and provisions of the law are being improved, namely: provisions concerning the association and association of municipalities in the Youth Party, we support the identification of legal grounds in the law for initiating the establishment of associations of municipalities, which will enable them to jointly carry out their tasks in an institutional manner, as well as the implementation of the requirements set out in the national development programmes before them.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u10	Your Honors are here! Allow me to begin where the speaker ends by marking the law on local self-government with the letter L. The truth to the heart is this law is one of those who are subordinate to the current and only the current government policy on the one hand, and on the other hand the current and only current ignorances of the government. Unfortunately, this is one of those laws which should be or should represent a constant in Slovenian life, whether due to the needs of local communities or whether it is due to the needs of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this national assembly. For the dynamics of amending this law and the frequency of the amendment of this law are, according to the Slovenian National Party, one of the main culprits, why there are such major gaps in the area of local self-government between the understanding of the instructions by the Government and the later implementation of the tasks of local communities. If anyone has agreed to justify a reduced procedure, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local self-government, it is that local elections are approaching, which have long been known or which we can point out will happen rapidly every four years, this argument seems to us to be very pointless. The Government of the Republic has known for a long time when local elections will be held and could be pursued in such a way as to adopt it in a normal manner with all the "interested" partners that have been, according to our assessment, neglected, and that they could make a law that would actually affect the quality of life of local communities. In our opinion, this law should be the basis for the quality of the functioning of local communities and the customers of local communities, if we categorize the inhabitants or citizens of individual municipalities, i.e. local communities. That this law is subordinated to the current political will, or, on the other hand, to the other extreme, the current government arrogant, we are also shown by requests for the number of new municipalities, the change of borders and requests for new powers arising from the change in the status of the ordinary municipality in the status of the city. As we know, this National Assembly has recently met with a large number of proposals from the new local communities. Therefore, if the State, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, had the power to provide conditions for the normal functioning of the municipalities, there would not have been such claims, which, in the Slovenian National Party, we say are largely unjustifiable and that the number of 192 municipalities at this time would not have been too large for our country to apply for such a mass establishment of municipalities, in fact every parish or community of people. But to return to the very proposal for amendments to the law. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I will point out only two criticisms. Firstly, criticism of the so-called provision of an institution or body covering the interests of local communities. Of course, such associations are welcome, but such associations should represent the counterweight of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, should ensure the interest of individual local communities, including those local communities that do not run them, whether in the form of a county or in the form of a majority in the municipal world, those political structures that are also in the government. Therefore, at least these amendments to the law should ensure complete autonomy in the area of integration. That is not the case, however, it is easy to see already in Article 11 of the bill, in its last paragraph, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sets the criteria and procedures for the composition. Such a quasi-democracy seems to us, as you would like to show it to the proponents, totally inappropriate. This will accomplish exactly what such associations are opposed to. This is the counterweight of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This exposes the body that will be able to communicate with the government at a different level, not just at the political level. Of course, if the realization of ideas on the independence of such associations in this law were otherwise written, written in such a way as to reflect democracy and the ability to speak with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it would be accepted by the Slovenian national party with open arms rather than in the manner proposed. This is to establish another association that will be under the influence of the governing structures. And this seems to us completely mistakenly defined in this law. And the second point I think is that it makes sense to point out in the context of the presentation of the parliamentary groups on the law, in which case the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on local self-government, I stress once again, proposed and dealt with in a simplified procedure, is the so-called Article 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia since its birth, i.e. since it was written, says in its content that it is necessary to write a new law on the issue of the Roma communities, which will systematically and fully address the so-called Roma problem. And the way the Government of the Republic of Slovenia serves today is because it is probably unable to write a special law, "per partes" to solve the issue of Roma communities in individual laws, is irresponsible, short-term and according to our assessment also negative. On the other hand, on the other hand, the reason why we cannot give support to Article 14 proposal is that it is worth thinking about over the degree of democracy at the moment when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or Parliament adopts this law by artificially deploying seats in individual local communities. If from now on this national assembly for each individual group, which counts so many and so many citizens, we say, and from now on you belong 5, 1, 3, whatever number of seats, we destroy the fundamental elements of democracy. Regardless of what anyone is listed under, under any community, under existing legislation he has the opportunity to take part in local elections and be elected to local authorities. And that's what democracy is all about. Thus, all candidates should be equally targeted at local elections, not in a system that dictates a pre-established seat or function of a municipal councillor. On the one hand, such a system, at least in the framework of the National Assembly, is still somehow understandable for the representative of both minorities, since it is a constitutionally defined category. However, with the knowledge of democracy and the pre-positioning of seats, it seems to us, at least in the Slovenian National Party, that we will lose the importance of local self-government. Lost that purpose, it is to express the interests of local communities through members of municipal councils if we are to pre-law the seats of individual groups. In the Slovenian National Party, the draft law is in the form set out in Rapporteur No. 21 with EPA 456 / III, we won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, Representative of the Government, Your Honor! We adopt a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government by means of a reduced procedure, as the proposer, as stated by Mr Minister, wishes to make only some amendments and additions to the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning representatives of Roma in the municipal council, with regard to local elections to the Municipality of Koper, to regulate the Institute of Alliances or Associations, some changes to the municipal administration, and to the elections and the mandates of municipal officials. But we wonder why we change the law so many times, again in the fall. We are aware that it is important to support and promote the organisation of communes in liaisons that represent local communities in relation to the country and represent their interests and associations, which in particular should be a place of coordination of the interests of the municipalities in relation to systemic matters, legislation, finance and so on. The association should be based on the principle of voluntary cooperation, which is one of the fundamental principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. In Slovenia we currently have a community of 117 municipalities and an association of 50 members. The proposal seeks to achieve a key change in the area of integration in order to start establishing larger systems, which would also allow investment and human resources management and the possibility of integration of municipalities, which could also mean one of the possible forms of covert establishment of conditions for the later integration of municipalities into the province. In our Group of Members, we support integration as an opportunity to exercise more effectively the common interests of local issues of common importance and thus to ensure the situation of local communities. However, we believe that the conditions for achieving representative status are laid down, in particular by the amendments tabled - otherwise, this representativeness means the exercise of rights and interests in the local community towards the country - we believe that these criteria are too high, as they would also reduce competition between the different interests of integration. With regard to the previous consent of the municipalities to draft laws or other acts, the proposal adds that appropriate cooperation with representative associations of municipalities should be ensured in advance. The proposal is quite flawed, since it binds only the National Assembly and does not specify the stage in which the municipalities participate in the legislative procedure, for example at all stages, and does not specify how they participate in this association of municipalities, for example that representatives of the Association of Communities are invited to attend meetings of the State authorities dealing with proposals for laws and other acts. With regard to the harmonisation of the law with the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the exercise of the constitutional rights of citizens, it is specifically the exercise of the rights of the representative of the Roma community in the municipal council, and of course in those municipalities where such indigenous communities live, we believe that it is necessary to take account of the number and organisation of such communities. The amendment further stipulates that until the election of the new municipal council, the term of office of the members of the municipal council and the mayors shall be extended in the event of a replacement or early election. In this regard, it is stipulated that the term of office of the members of the municipal council and the mayor of the municipality of Koper lasts until a new election at the local elections in 2002. We support the government proposal and the fact that the mandate of officials in Cyprus will be shorter for a year. With this, local elections in the municipality of Koper are to take place at the same time as elsewhere in Slovenia. However, we expected that the applicant would also comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, which states that the area of a large municipality, which is largely territorial, the municipality of Koper is not in accordance with the applicable principles and legislation in the field of local self-government. The proposed changes in the proposal in relation to the municipal administration weaken the mayor's role and powers and increase the possibility of a conflict between him and the secretary. Here we are referring to the systematisation of jobs in the municipal administration, which the mayor is newly appointed only on the proposal of the secretary. The municipalities that have been invited to give an opinion on the proposal would, however, want to have a wider impact on the amendments and additions to this law, including in the area of wages. A major problem is the damage to the salaries of mayors in municipalities and their relationship between the smallest and the highest, as the government also agrees. The lowest salary for the mayor will be in the municipality, which has less than 3,000 inhabitants, 259.000,00 tolars, while the highest salary, Ljubljana County, 845,000.00 tolars gross. The relationship between the salaries of mayors and the directors of municipal administrations has also been broken. At thirty percent of municipalities, directors have higher salaries than mayors. The applicable law on local self-government governs the salaries of municipal officials by means of a transitional provision temporary to system-wide wage arrangements. With regard to the system regime, when will it actually come into force, in view of all that is going on, after the adoption of the wage law in the public sector, we do not have something particularly tangible ahead of us. We therefore support the temporary regulation of salaries for the performance of the functions of municipal officials but in a relationship as achieved by the greatest consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Socialist Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u14	Allow me to give you a few views on the law, on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local self-government on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. In our parliamentary group, it is understandable that we are not satisfied that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local self-government again contains only partial solutions in view of the whole problem in the field of local self-government, which I think is the eighth or ninth time. Nevertheless, we agree with that part of the law that regulates non-compliance with the law by decisions of the Constitutional Court. In the parliamentary group, we do not agree with the assessment given and the reasons for the adoption of the law, as set out in the legislative proposal. A contentious and unacceptable claim is that municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants are economically dependent. The fact is that more than 80% of municipalities are receiving financial compensation and that this data and this fact require a radical change in the way municipalities are financed, and from this point of view, the designation of 5,000 people as the limit number or condition for achieving economic independence is in complete disharmony with the actual situation. We fully agree with the solution that both the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia are representative associations, that as such they have the status of representative association. However, we are opposed to a provision which stipulates that the association must meet all the required criteria in the law, in particular as regards the number of inhabitants after the deadline. Because the municipalities are surrounded by the whole set up by the law, it is not justified to condition an additional criterion on the number of the population so that the association under this law can acquire the property of representativeness. As I have already said, we also object to the proposed withdrawal of representation status after the three-year deadline if any of the associations did not meet the criteria set out in the law. We are of the opinion that the Roma issue of marriage is being resolved by force on the surface, on the surface and without appropriate arguments. The draft law does not define the criteria and procedure for determining the indigenous population of the Roma community. By listing the municipalities where Roma live, it is easy to lay down an obligation for these municipalities to ensure their representation. In doing so, it does not specify the facts, but only respects the criteria taken from the data of the Nationality Office. But we all know that Roma forces are a flexible community that can be found here today, for the second time there and there is no criterion in marriage. We are opposed to an attempt to ensure, or take over, the obligation to provide representation of Roma in the municipal world by simply stating the municipalities, because they are supposed to live. In particular, this issue is problematic in terms of equality before the law because it places the Roma community in a privileged position. We are of the opinion that the implementation of the proposed novel would be controversial and to the detriment of the other inhabitants of the local community. We also point to the danger that such a privileged situation would later require any other communities. However, we fully support the intention to arrange for additional funding for municipalities to regulate the situation related to the settlement of differences between Roma and other inhabitants. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we oppose the extension of the mandate of the mayor and the council of the municipality of Koper. In particular, in the case of the municipality of Koper, we would like to draw attention to the failure to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court. We note that according to the law in force, all municipalities in Slovenia have been reformulated except for korska. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we therefore express a protest against the Government's ignorant attitude towards solving the problem of the Koper municipality. There is no doubt that we are witnessing a markedly undemocratic and non-European conduct. Therefore, it is essential for us to regulate the status of the Kori municipality as soon as possible in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. We also strongly oppose the expressed intentions of reducing the mayor's role in the municipalities. We are of the opinion that the relationship between the mayor and the secretary, or the delimitation of the presidency of the municipal administration, should be fully regulated within the framework of the new law on local self-government, taking into account all the specificities of local communities. As stated in the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we object to the abandonment of a provision stipulating that the head of the municipal administration is the mayor. We advocate rational regulation of the salary ratio of mayors compared to or with directors of public enterprises, schools, kindergartens, public institutions and the like. We have therefore proposed an amendment setting out a uniform criterion for determining the basic salary of the directors of these institutions. The proposed arrangement is unacceptable in terms of determining the salaries of the directors of these companies, schools, kindergartens, public institutions which would be linked to the salaries of mayors, for which the law provides for 8 payment classes, thus creating an unequal class of directors who would be so bound to the mayor's salary. I call on you to support our amendments in this direction, and we expect that a comprehensive law on municipalities will be introduced as soon as possible, as has already been announced today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč will present the opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you very much. We support the basic solutions and proposals in the law on amendments and additions to the law on local self-government in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. We are aware that, on many issues, there are differences in terms of organisation, but also in the competences of individual authorities in local communities, so different that I believe that there will be no way to achieve any single point of view. With regard to the proposals that have been made, we would also like to be able to have the strength of the National Assembly to re-evaluate and regulate many issues of organizing local self-government in Slovenia, including organizational issues, financing of the province, elections and so on. Nevertheless, the proposed questions, which are necessary in this law, need to be amended and supplemented. In this regard, let me mention our view of three issues above all. The first question is the obligation under Article 65 of the Constitution, where the Constitutional Court also imposes on us the regulation of the situation and special rights of the Roma. We do not argue that the proposed solutions are ideal, but with additions that imply the interest of the social organisation of Roma in each local community, which express their interest in participating in the management of local public affairs in the municipality, it also ensures their attitude towards the fact that they want to have their representative in the local community. In doing so, we warn and stress that every time it comes to minorities, and even to Roma, the rights of minorities, it is a matter of special rights. And these rights are always greater than the rights of all others, which makes it difficult for us to talk about how these rights could be realized in any other way than as special rights could be exercised. Second. In the parliamentary group we prepared an amendment on the date of the elections in the municipality of Koper. We are in law, which two have foreseen for the local elections in the Municipality of Koper on many issues and different points of view regarding the implementation of the constitutional decision. For the first time, regular elections are to be held, not a special election; regular elections also provide for a regular four-year term. And second, that extraordinary elections in the Koper municipality can at any time or that the mandate of regularly elected councilors and mayors in the Koper municipality can be reduced at any time, even after a month, to simplify, or six months, when the new organisation of the Koper municipality takes place. This new organisation must, however, be proposed and enforced in accordance with an appropriate procedure, which includes a concrete proposal and also includes a referendum held in the envisaged new local communities. This procedure has not yet been carried out, and until this procedure has been carried out, in our opinion, it would be more correct if the mayor and the councillors in the municipality of Koper had been given a four-year mandate, as provided for in this Act, but the harmonisation of mandates would have taken place after the implementation of the changes now being made and the addition of the law which would have provided for all similar or other cases in order to ensure that all elections in all local communities were carried out simultaneously. And third, where I would like to define the position of our parliamentary group, is the question of mayors' salaries. We agree that this is one of the issues that is contradictory. For this reason, it is correct to conclude that the mayors' salaries were not adjusted by the growth of salaries in the municipal administration, that there were imbalances in this area, but at the same time it is true that the government and the National Assembly were well founded a short time ago, but unfortunately also discussed the issue of wage regulation in the public sector quickly or too quickly. And the mayors also belong in this circle. Many criticisms were expressed in this National Assembly on the basis of the lack of harmonisation of this law with the social partners. However, in an important work, there was still harmonisation. This harmonisation covers more than half of the unions that have co-ordinated as well as more than half of the employees or members of these unions. And now against their will to change only a fraction of these rights in the mayor's field doesn't seem to be worth it. We fear that the regulation of this issue, as envisaged for a change in salaries in the public administration sector and in public servants, would open up new issues and possibilities for new discontents before 1.1.2004. For this reason, when choosing bad solutions, it seems better for us to take the bad one that will ensure respect for the decisions that we have adopted in the Public Sector Wage Regulations Act so far, but not to start making unprincipled exceptions with another law immediately after the adoption of this law. Because of this proposal, which is materially justified but in our view systematically weak, we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u18	I'll be very brief. I look at all the laws by which a system is established, especially so that it is not possible to change them with some idealistic receptions, to put them on a whole new footing and have such a happy hand that it is set for at least a decade. This local government, too, has been criticized today for being like a bad kid and so on. But it has to be said that it's what we've been accepting here. So that it is the product of the constellation of forces of various ideas and, of course, also political powers at different times After all, it is also the fact that we adopt the law just before the present, that we accept it in fact too late, that it is the result of some constellation of political forces and of course different views. Therefore, on this occasion, I would like to highlight or recall the words of a Portuguese lady who has been here with us and, in particular, the word on changes in public administration. She said that you can't just eat it all with one spoon, that you just have to go step by step, segment by segment. And here, in fact, as we all expect how the government's professional service will now draw up an amended law, after all, we don't need two laws at all, and we don't need local self-government laws, and we don't need municipalities and so on. But when they bring this marriage to the National Assembly, I'm sure we'll tear it apart, because, of course, everyone has their ideas, we all think we're getting to know each other well. I think it is worth supporting the law here in those parts where it is absolutely necessary to bring the law into line with constitutional decisions, but everything else is, in my opinion, also in relation to the salaries of mayors, the subject of discussion later. But I would point to something else: When the marriage is one or the other, it comes here, it can’t just be this marriage. We all know that it is weightier, I will say the greatest weight in deciding whether people will be organised into a local community or not, of course they have finances. And according to the current community funding system, of course, everyone sees that they will profit, so I'm going to say that there's not even a need to water the government with a bunch of fertilizer gourds, nor is there a need for some serious self-criticism. As legislation as we have it, we have it, of course, we need to change it slowly and there is now more to these elections than what is ready to be done. After the elections, ladies and gentlemen, which you have spoken so well here today, I invite you, in the context of, I hope, at that time, a committee for local self-government or a commission, whatever this body will be called, to deal with such a problem and, of course, prepare for this national assembly much better legislation than we have now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, whatever legislation the opposition would draw up, would not, of course, be adopted in this House. So that Mr Lavrinc's words, when he says so, he kindly invites us to do so, of course we do not take it seriously. But it is true that cosmetic corrections do not change serious matters such as the law on local self-government. And I will tell you, Mr. Minister, and those who say we made some critical remarks, inadequate, but I will read what Dr. Butcher wrote in the evening paper yesterday. Somehow, Dr. France Bučar is the father of the Slovenian Constitution and it says here: "Our government", of course, should be written "and parliamentary majority" in no way ready to carry out the constitutional arrangements of local self-government. In particular, it opposes the exercise of the position of the municipality, as defined by the Constitution, from the insistence of a municipality which is a kind of hybrid between self-government and administrative unit." And then he says, "the typical legacy of Cardel's commune." So this is the obvious Dr. Butcher. And then it goes on: "In no case is she prepared to comply with the demands of the interested population and lays down its own criteria for the establishment and functioning of the municipality." So "and lays down its own criteria for the establishment and functioning of the congregation." And we all know that these criteria that you are applying are, of course, contrary to what they know today in the countries of the European Union. So in no case are you, of course, the opposition is too many to convince you of any change, because even the arguments do not depend on you, there is only a number of deadlines, the number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Lavrinc. However, respectable debaters! The reduced procedure also, of course, gives us the scope of our speeches, so I ask you to stick to the proposed changes in the framework of the reduced procedure. Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you very much. As much as anyone wants to take me seriously, that's actually his problem. I have taken things very seriously and seriously so far in committee work, for example, by listening to both the position and the opposition, not just me as chairman, but also through substantive decisions. So I will say, if things are well-prepared or well-proposed, they have received support. About the constitution, Mr. Sok. It was written by several experts and politicians. Among them was Dr. Butcher. He's just one of the doctors of law who thinks about local self-government one way or another. In this country we have some that have dealt specifically with local self-government and are available for better solutions. But, as I said, usually dear gentlemen, these things that are prepared before are torn apart here. That is why I invited you to come up with, say, thesis and we will have a single marriage, and we will see how funding is going to be done or what funding legislation is supposed to be like, and then I invited you to live in these beautiful words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I think I can conclude the general debate. I am therefore concluding the general debate and moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let us vote on this proposal! There are 51 of us present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the amendment review of 22.5.2002. You also have an amendment on the table to the review of the amendments that bear the date 23.5.2002 and also to the amendments, the amendments of which are proposed by the group of Members with the first signed Bojan Kontic to Article 13 and to the same article, of which Mr Tanko is the proposer. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 1 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much. We have tabled the amendment in order to delete the first paragraph of Article 1 because we consider that the amendment of the second sentence of Article 6 of the current law is unnecessary, since the current wording allows for the same possibilities as the proposed amendment to the law as regards relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on Article 1. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 17 votes against 37. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 42 votes against 14. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 3 and the two amendments. Under number 1, there is an amendment proposed by Lidija Majnik and under number 2, there is an amendment by the government. I am opening a debate on the article and both amendments. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. I just wanted to ask you about the first amendment, because I couldn't find out from the very explanation. If the proposer can tell me which authorities in the state administration are here meant to exercise control over the legality or appropriateness and expertise of the work of the municipal authorities and the municipal administration. It seems to me that such a definition is extremely questionable and can result in any interpretation of who it is. The third indent of this amendment, the second or fifth paragraph, which states, is "to the position and second official position in the state administration where the powers concerning the supervision of legality or jurisdiction are exercised" - I do not know what "validity" means - "and the competence of the work of the municipal authorities and the municipal administration". So if he can explain this to me for a moment, because I couldn't understand it from the very point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnikov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I have to say, I was helped with writing the amendment by the government. At my warning, where we corrected Article 37a in the original law, and Article 37b does not. This is the incompatibilities of the mayor and the man who is the mayor at the same time and who runs the department of the administrative unit.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u30	Well, I may have even outrun Mr Sok, but here's the question. Since we have heard that you are co-sponsors of the amendment, it would be useful to state exactly which bodies are involved, exactly which organs you had in mind when you put this amendment, because the matter is so misplaced and possible different interpretations that in our opinion it is not appropriate to introduce it into law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u32	In view of the fact that Mrs Majnikov said that the amendment was written by the government service or that the government services were involved, I would then ask that you respond to the government services, even though I would expect someone from those Members to submit such an amendment after that, so that I do not understand this interconnection of government services in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Your indication was incorrect. Madam Parliament said that the concerns had been raised by the Government, and the government service had helped her prepare an amendment to resolve this. That is why I think I can give the floor to the Minister or to the Madam Secretary of State. Who would want a word? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u34	Those who exercise control over the legality or suitability and expertise of the work of the municipal authorities are, of course, meant inspection services that carry out supervision. The local self-government office of the Ministry of the Interior, which also exercises control in accordance with the law, is also part of these State bodies.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much, only I would ask the minister more precisely what inspection services. Knowing at least one part of the inspection services, I can say that veterinary inspection, for example. does not exercise any supervision over the performance of the work of the municipal authorities. None at all. The same goes for a health inspection and I would ask you to tell me what that inspection service is, because it's interpretation then very broad and exactly what I said. Such a case can then be interpreted and interpreted in different ways in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. First Mr. Grandchild, then Mr. Kelemina. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u38	I wouldn't want to replicate here to Mr. Minister, but the 88.a. speaks to who's in charge. These are the ministries. The role of the ministry at the local level is played by the administrative unit, according to the exposition of the ministries. So much for the answer, as far as oversight is concerned. So a meaningful amendment in this sense is, who can't, if he does control, then he can't be controlled, and in the same function he can't control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I would ask, however, if the secretariat can say, to determine whether this is sufficiently specified by this amendment, or whether these are quite clear amendments. I have concerns, too, and I don't think so. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In view of the question raised just now, I would only like to inform the assembly that Article 37b, the following article, which, following these amendments and additions, does not open, has an explicit provision which is the same as regards the incompatibility of members of the municipal councils. This is said to be the function of the members of the municipal council, inter alia, in addition to the Chief of the administrative unit and the Head of the internal organisational unit in the administrative unit, is not compatible with the work of the public administration, in the workplaces in which the workers combine powers concerning the supervision of the legality and suitability and the professional competence of the work of the municipal authorities. So from this point of view, I think that practice has already had to formulate certain interpretations, which are of this kind, which comes from the secretariat, I can't tell you that, but I think that's actually specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I think I can conclude the debate on these two amendments and move on to a decision. We will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 3. Let's vote! There are 58 of us present. It's 38 votes against 16. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. It's 37 votes to 12. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 56 of us present. It was 45 votes against 6. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against six.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 5 is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 6 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, with a note, if adopted, the amendment under order number 2 of which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be irrelevant. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision first on the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 59 of us in attendance. 18 votes against 36. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 58 of us present. 18 votes against 32. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 6 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 58 of us present. 41 votes to 14. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 8 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. Let's vote! There are 59 of us in attendance. 20 votes against 34. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We decide on Article 8 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. It's 42 votes against 6. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 10 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group and under 2 is the amendment of the Committee with a note that, if the amendment under order number 1 is deleted, of course, the amendment under order number 2 will become irrelevant. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision, first of all to an amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 61 of us present. There were 21 votes against 33. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. It's 38 votes against 9. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 57 of us present. It was 41 votes against 9. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that Article 10 is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 11 and the nine amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the Committee, under 2 is the amendment of the Committee, with the footnote, if amendments under points 1 and 2 are adopted, the amendments under 3 and 4 are irrelevant. The amendment under 3 is proposed by the Cveta Zalokar Orazem, under the 4th SDS Group, then under the 5th Amendment of the New Slovenia Group, under the 6th Amendment of the Committee, under the 7th Amendment of the Villa Trofenika, under the 8th Amendment to the Amendment, with the note that, according to the secretariat for legislation and legal affairs, the amendment of the Member of France Kangler, under point 9, is legally unacceptable on page 8 of the review to which the amendment to the amendment relates. This is an amendment under order number 9. I am therefore opening the debate on Article 11 and on the amendments to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u44	I would like to express my personal disagreement with respect to the principle of representativeness, which is governed by this Article or by a multitude of amendments to this Article. See, from these amendments and from the relationship and debate that took place on this topic in the Committee on Internal Policy, there is clearly a negative attitude towards local self-government, to municipalities, especially in the countryside. From this branch is a message that seeks to easily eliminate all municipalities and direct everything from Ljubljana. It is clear that this community of municipalities of Slovenia, or the association of municipalities of Slovenia, which brings together small municipalities, is such a terrible thorn in the heel that it is willing to do everything to remove this association of municipalities of Slovenia, the association of small, those who are already completely imaginary, meaning nothing from this area, from this country. It is totally incomprehensible, rather than being glad that the congregations are also joining together to improve the rural situation in order to reduce the growing gap in development, you are trying to increase this gap by such measures. The voice of the little ones can't be heard. God forbid anyone in the Upper Kungota will have a word or say anything, no. But at the end of the day, I also find everything understandable - in all things, only electoral mathematics is considered. Unfortunately, there are so few people living in these areas that they are not interesting and that you are willing to forget them or forgive them for living as they have lived before or somehow will be, as they are called. See, given the fact that we have recognised the municipality with less than 5,000 inhabitants of the state - and I would like to point out that in more than 90 cases - it is now totally unacceptable to condition an association with the number of inhabitants. It is also acceptable for us that this is a fifth of the municipalities, but it is by no means impossible and should not be associated with the number of people, since we are essentially putting ourselves in some absurd position when we have determined a legal status for the municipality and, on the other hand, we limit it when we are discussing the representativeness of associations. This is a sad but already perfectly normal attitude of the government, of this ministry. This relationship is reflected in all the moves of this national assembly from the very beginning. See, since we have abolished the Local Self-Government Committee, abolished the Local Self-Government Service, glued it there to a ministry, we ignore the opinion of the municipalities when adopting legislation when it comes to these local communities. We act as if the whole world or everything revolves around Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues! Personally, those attempts that we have witnessed during this period of adoption of this law, including on the local self-government committee, are simply not clear. I cannot explain to myself why the battle of the advocates of one and the other options of the associations has so intensified that we have come to literally inflation the importance of this article's proposal with amendments, which are nothing but on the same subject. Personally, I can't explain why this battle is happening. What are we arguing about? Why are there two associations in the way? I personally support both associations. Just because there are more, more opinions, more materials to talk about, more good compromises and mutually coordinated proposals, and I don't think there should be a battle at these two associations between, say, one option and another option. Why? I would like to see all those proponents or advocates of one or the other association in order to somehow attract the participation of all the congregations, as many congregations as possible, but to double the membership, nevertheless. Once again, I think it is right and wise that we should not limit ourselves to different borders, with various proposals which the association will now be more responsible, more the right association to talk about the requirements of local self-government, let's say, compared to or contrary to the speaker, say, the government. Personally, I would ask all those who in any way advocate these numbers to consider where the numbers are, why we limit the numbers of these associations. Let us make it possible, with as few conditions as possible, for these associations to occur. I think they're good advocates with good themes. Personally, I think that this is useful for the local self-government we are talking about, and not least for the country, because, after all, we often say that the municipalities of the daughter of this country are making literally excellent situations for our citizens, as well as for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Personally, I would ask if it is possible to consider withdrawing these amendments in order to allow as few restrictions as possible to lead to smart and good associations. I will support what is proposed in the fourth amendment that one-fifth of municipalities is sufficient and at least 150,000 inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. I hereby also base my vote on this amendment. I've already given you a lot of arguments. I personally fear that this competition, this competition between one and the other associations in the future, would lead to additional borders, new restrictions for those who would now reach this level that we will accept. It seems to me that we will come up with such absurd matters that someone will be able to suggest that they unite those congregations that have, I will say absurdly, a broadcaster of some kind of signal in their congregation. This is going to be the one for the dialogue. Well, that's not the point. It is a matter of getting suitable interlocutors that if each congregation wants to seek its satisfaction in any of these two associations that are now performing, it should be part of it. In this article, we are also talking about the individual number of members of delegations and representations in delegations, which is now a special topic of these days between one and the other associations. There is also a perception of incomprehensible conflicts that do not bring any benefits to Slovenia compared with the European Union, the Council of Europe and other interlocutors. It is right that both associations are treated as equal, that they have equal representation of members, of course, according to the number of members of the municipalities. I'm defending it, that's definitely it. It would not, however, cause him to persist in defending one option or one association of conflicts in another option. This opposition, or this debate about these members of delegations, the number of one and the other options, is causing exactly conflict, whether now one association is more appropriate, "more valuable than the other" - in connotations or not. One more time to think about it. I think that in this national assembly we could find a suitable dialogue or compromise between the position and the opposition and, once again, for the benefit of these congregations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Just for an explanation. Mr Lavrinc, Mr Pucko, Mr Rokavec, are announced for the debate in the following order. He now wishes to replicate the implementation of Mr Rupar, Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem. Here you go. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] I'm sorry. [[...]] Then Mr Lavrinc has a replica and an advantage over Orazmo. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u48	I'm replicating. See, this amendment, which is here and, of course, proposed by the Committee, must also be seen in the light of the amendment by Mrs Tsveta Zalokar Orazem, which the Committee supports. What's this all about? It's no one's business to limit this merger to force. But, my dear gentlemen, when we are talking about public consumption, I have reminded you last time about these things, it is necessary, if we go to support Mr. Willi Trofenik's proposal, that paragraph 9 be deleted, that you will "soldier" him for your own "soldiers" across Europe, I will say, then let's have ten, twenty associations for my sake. For the state, more are, for the government, enforceable, more are, it's better. Because they are inseparable, they can break them individually, just as an old story or a fairy tale or a swimming pool speaks. However, as long as they walk around Europe for state money, some criteria must be set. We cannot see that five delegations of some associations from Slovenia will come up there. Now we've set some criteria, four more can come. Four. Besides, if I ask myself, I think it's crazy. That's why I don't think this is about who can associate with whom, who can't, that's the first. Secondly, our desire is to prevent political dispersion - social-democrats will have their associations and will be where social-democrats in the majority of municipal councils, LDS will have its associations, SLS will come up with its associations. And so on. That's not working. It just doesn't work. This is not the purpose of these associations either. That is why we - look at the amendment of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem, which, just in case, will not tell anyone that they are now serving after life - supported the amendment, which states that both existing associations now have life guaranteed if they meet all these conditions over so many years and so. But by then there will be plenty of time, and there will be a new national assembly, and I am sure that there will be new legislation in the field of local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replicas in the following order: Mrs Orzmova, then Mr Rupar and Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Actually, I'm replicating the two previous discussions. I would like to say that there are two associations in Slovenia at this time, but none of these associations are based in Ljubljana - one association has its seat in Maribor, another association in Vodice, which was previously said to mean some dictatorship of Ljubljana, which I think is a little missed because of ignorance. As far as representativeness is concerned, I think it is right and proper to introduce it in law. Representativeness means that the criteria and criteria given are the extent to which an association must have membership, in order to become what this law also brings to a new state, an interlocutor, by law prescribed by an interlocutor to the State, and that the association becomes relevant to participation in an international criterion. However, we are only talking about the matter concerning, I will say, the obligations of the State of Slovenia in the Council of Europe and in the European Union. I don't think this law prevents any assembly of congregations, even opens it. After a new interesting peace of mind, the municipalities will be able to unite in any way in their interests, and they will also be able to unite - and nowhere in the law is this written - I don't know, such, different and so on. But representativeness does not mean that no one else can unite as one, but I will tell you why the struggle for this representation is great, but it probably does. However, if this fight is such a big one, then some minimum criteria must nevertheless have a representative association. In doing so, I say that according to my opinion, the known data in Europe is largely absent from associations in countries, but usually only one association. Most European countries have only one association. I do not know a country where there would be more associations representing the interests of the congregations. We have such a situation, no harm, it is relevant, it is acceptable, but it also seems right for us to introduce representativeness. The last time it was said that there had been individual opposition and abandonment of the meeting, I think we have prepared a proposal sufficiently compromisely in this sense that three years, and at this point when the law was adopted, both associations become representative, which are currently in operation. This three-year transitional period seems to me to be adjusted enough. And that's what I'd say to Mr. Lavrinco. At this point, no one is going to Europe for state money. Both associations are self-financed, including the representation of Slovenia in the Council of the Regions in the Council of Europe and in the European Union. No one has ever spent a tolar because last year my amendment fell when we adopted the budget, and the funds were exhausted and there were no funds. However, I think it is right to clarify, however, that it is three members and three deputies in the bodies to be covered by Slovenia and that, for this part, only for these delegations, provision is made for the provision of financial resources with the assistance of the State. All other forms of cooperation, however, are not financed. It also makes it clear that funds are provided only for delegations from the bodies of the Council of Europe and the European Union. This is said to be why we really have to walk around Europe by representatives of associations, not because there is any municipal or mayoral tourism, because everything else is just a matter of municipalities and it covers them. To this point, no one has given a tolar for these matters, and they have all come from both the association and the community of members of the congregations that contribute to this association. That is why I think, despite these calls to my colleagues, that this compromise proposal is appropriate. I think there's a lot of fear for client associations if we don't have a quorum, or for a whole bunch of different associations, maybe, I'll say, regional criteria or whatever. This would mean a poorer function of the municipalities of the vis-a-vis state. If the state has, I don't know, 10 interlocutors with 10 associations, then I'm sure no one will actually do much here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u52	Since I have just applied, I must also tell Mr Lavrinc that none of these members of delegates are "gunning" across Europe for state money. As far as political division is concerned, so is this. No one, but this must be admitted by the mayors from all the customers in here, whenever we meet, no one comes to anyone with the assumption that "you're the mayor of LDS, and you're a social democrat" - that's not it. Neither do associations come from a political definition. There are as many associations in Slovenia as you want. We have an association of historic cities. I don't even know where the mayors come from. Why is that? It doesn't matter. That is why I appeal to this wisdom of this national assembly, to go beyond it, to go a step over this mania, to who it belongs, to whom it belongs, to whom it belongs. Thus, neither one nor the other associations are associations based on the political definition of mayors or the municipal council. That's the truth. My purpose, my appeal for a readmission or for the establishment, the legitimate establishment of both associations was only a step in thinking, for a step into the future. Perhaps it would be right for both associations to slowly form some groups in the future, first for mutual communication, and then one for communication with the government. This was my intention and my appeal for compromise to get it. You know, something's true. Small congregations have a different view in one of the associations of the problems faced by large or medium-sized municipalities; and if those chickens have a view there, it is right and very right that, on the basis of this proposal on the Joint Committee or - I do not know what it would be called - these people, in order to find compromise and dialogue together, it would make sense to support this. It makes sense, however, that we get problems that occur in local self-government, as comprehensive and as material for dialogue with the government. Otherwise, one will get lost. In the future, such communication may also constitute an association of the two associations. This brings time, so I think that this is the only positive scene in all of this, that we protect local self-government as a level of civil organisation in this country. And once again, my purpose is not to cause this separation. Let us once give this wisdom to local governments, offer it, and let them do it, and let us show them if we are able to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I would like to tell Mr Lavrinc that he has obviously ignored or forgotten to say, on purpose or unintentionally, that it is in these bodies, as has been said earlier by Mrs Orzmova, the tripartite representation from Slovenia plus three deputies, that it is essentially six seats, and that there is nothing more expensive if these six seats are two or one association. To quote anything else or three, is, I'll say, a little deception. However, we have also heard that so far the associations have paid for it themselves. However, I think we have actually opened up the heart of the dispute this moment when we received or when the opinion of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities came to light at the Council of Europe, which indirectly demanded that the three cities be divided between the two associations. I think it's a basic problem, because suddenly there was no longer room for three representatives from one association, but it had to be shared. That's the essence of the problem that we don't want to admit, and it's also an appropriate response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u56	A lot of this has already been said, but for a while. We mix things up a little when we begin to speak and advocate such an association or a different one. That's not the point of this story. First of all, it's not true that we do. I'm basically replicating here. That's not what this is about. In the association, which is currently the largest association in Slovenia, we have three different categories, three sections, three groups. One of these is a small congregation, and there are many. There are many congregations in one congregation and another. That's not what this is about. This is simply the case, and this is written in these amendments, and I will therefore support the amendment of the committee in relation to what my colleague Lavrinc has also said, although what is around "punching" across Europe is of course not right to define what the criteria for a national association are. No one talks about the fact that someone has to be banned, that someone has to be allowed, but only what the criteria are. A supplement that speaks of joint delegations or of this amendment is precisely what it wants to achieve, that another association, which will not be of national importance at this time, can and should participate in these international contacts and those delegations. It's a very, very simple matter. The fear of politics isn't at this point, but it could develop into this. And that's what we want to avoid. If it were too wide, if we had six, seven, eight, nine national associations, it would already be pointless in itself, but it could really be combined on the basis of some political motivation, which would be totally wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Before I give my word for the replica to Mr Trofenic, respected, respected, truly in the statements we are now hearing, we are all repeating ourselves, so please, if anyone has anything new, the committee has, of course, cleared up these questions in a few hours and I think everyone knows how to define himself under what amendment. I therefore ask that we be rational in the debates. Mr. Trofenic Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I will replicate or point out the inaccuracy of the statement of colleague Orzmova in the part where she said that representativeness means the legitimacy of associations to talk to representatives of the state or government. That doesn't follow from the law. This right shall be exercised by each association, whether representative or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Orzmova's replica, then we have three more discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u60	I would like to provide only, if I am well informed, this information, because it seems to me to be one of the more important and it shows that, despite certain concerns, things are still being regulated, that at this time there is a registration for the delegation of the Congress of Local and Regional Communities and that, as I know, both associations are involved in this recording and appointment, and that delegations will be appointed according to the number of members of both associations, and that a compromise will probably also be sought, as a whole number of municipalities in both associations are also looking for solutions. I think, however, if after seven years of working in one of these associations, I personally regret that, despite repeated attempts, I have also participated in some of them alone, in these years it has not been possible for us to actually have one strong association in Slovenia. Despite the fact that a larger association has been reorganized in the last year - due to the numerous comments made by smaller municipalities to participate equally, regardless of the number of people in the three sections, it is said that the sections of the large municipalities, the sections of the central municipalities and the section of the smaller municipalities, regardless of all, could never have been reached, in fact, by talking about a merger and a stronger and more convincing approach to the country. Here I personally see the problem, and frankly, in the personal ambitions of the individuals working in it, not in some general trend, because on individual topics, on the content, these two associations are actually already cooperating and are negotiating together, let's say - on the problem of kindergartens and so on. There's no problem here on the content. Personally, there seems to be a key problem here, but it is likely to grow over the years, and it will no longer be a personal matter, a personal affinities. In fact, I think that this topic will be irrelevant in three years, because in three years it is certain that the associations will be united.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you very much. And three more debates. Mr. Pucko first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief. I'm especially interested in two. Firstly, whether the Government still supports the basic text of Article 7 and thus opposes all the amendments tabled in this paragraph. Here I want an answer yes or no, because there is no other. Secondly, I am interested in the Government's opinion to delete paragraph 9 of this article, which was tabled by colleague Villa Trofenik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The representative of the government made a statement, but only at the end when all Members have exhausted their wish to discuss it. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Perhaps I would like to refer exactly to what Comrade Pucka has just asked the government. In my opinion, even in view of the abundance of amendments to paragraph 11 tabled, it would probably be most reasonable to leave the text of Article 11 as it is. I further substantiate this for the following reasons. Indeed, the fact is, as has been said, that there are two associations operating in Slovenia at the moment. At this time, about 50 congregations are not included in one or another association. Thus, if the basic text remains as it is, it is possible to redistribute the municipalities or to exclude them from one association, to include them in the operation of another association or to establish even a possible new association. As I am aware, both associations are actually contributing a very important proportion at this time. We may not even know the importance of both associations, both in the creation of local self - government and in the functioning of municipalities. Therefore, it is likely that any additional limitation at this time could mean that an association is trying to eliminate or put it in the waiting room or that it must meet certain criteria within a given period. If we set a three-year deadline, many of you have already mentioned that legislation will be changing at this time, then it is actually pointless to put such high conditions on the one hand and the criteria on the other hand to give such a long transitional period. I don't know what the point is. I think that, in particular, the point is that, as has already been said, it is possible to create the conditions under this Article, how the two associations will also be involved in the international representation. It would probably be best at this point because, according to my opinion, the government has had very likely talks with one other association, so that it would probably make sense to shorten the debate and at this point support the basic solution proposed in the proposal to amend the law, which would probably lead to the least severe blood at this point, but probably allow the two associations to function normally further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. For a moment, I would like to say that at this point, as I can see, these two associations are only in existence. Therefore, some excessive restriction would be for the formation of these two associations, which are some normal consequence of the formation of congregations, because in one, rural municipalities and in the other municipalities, this is somewhat comparable to the European model, where the situation is similar, because rural municipalities have one specific feature in development and urban communities have another specificity, so it would probably be best to write as low as possible in the law. However, if, of course, the law, as the minister had announced, was to be amended, this criterion of representativeness could also be raised accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you. I would like to answer the questions raised specifically. As a starting point for the formation of its amendment, the government had in particular the status of representativeness for both associations operating in Slovenia. That's why we put in the amendment, as you know, the criteria of 150,000 inhabitants and 1/5. The smaller association, the rural association, as the honourable fellow Member said, includes 180,000 people and 41 municipalities and covers both of these criteria. Therefore, of course, our original position is included in the amendment with these two numbers. That is why I would not agree with the obvious that we are working against the intention of free association even in smaller-scale associations. Finally, the law is clear and allows the free establishment of associations and associations that are formed, even if they do not obtain a representative status, gives the authority to communicate with the authorities in the formulation of regulations relating to their situation. So we expect the establishment of other, smaller associations that will be able to function. The only two legal consequences of representativeness are mentioned in the law, which has already been mentioned several times, the creation of this joint office and the reimbursement of costs for the Council of Europe or the European Union delegations. With regard to these delegations, I would like to say that these delegations have already been formed, not only have they been recorded, but decisions have already been made. With regard to the debate on apparent discrimination, let me say that it is from the association of the communities of Slovene municipalities, i.e. 16 representatives, which covers a million and a half people and 108 municipalities. From the Slovenian Association of Municipalities, which covers significantly less than 680,000 and 41 municipalities, there are 10 representatives. This is more, much more than a ratio of size, and it is obvious that we have not complied with the criteria of size, but with the criteria of relative equality in cooperation with European institutions. We have also been prepared to support the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee, but under the condition that the amendment is in the transitional provisions providing for existing and representative associations already established and operating in Slovenia in the next three-year period representativeness status from the outset, which means that they must meet stricter criteria, more stringent than those of the government in the amendment, in a three-year period. Under this condition, it seems to us that it is possible to ensure an equal position between the two associations already established and that this is favoured equally between the two. Therefore, it would be difficult to accept the evidence in this direction in order to favour one or discriminate against another association. As far as the amendment is concerned, Comrade Trophynik. Uzus, the rule in the European Union is that when it comes to state delegations, and this is a matter of state delegations, representation in the Council of Europe and in the European Union, not in the case of municipal delegations, delegations of associations, that these costs are borne by the state budget. That is why we have proposed such an arrangement.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Actually, it's not a replica, it's an additional question. You were talking about the government's amendment. I don't see him in this exam. You must have been thinking about the basic text. Then I take that for your lapsus. However, you did not explicitly say that you oppose all other amendments to this article under numbers 2, 3 and 4. In the end, you were talking about a transitional period, which, in my opinion, is totally unnecessary, because there is no need to just think that we are serious enough and that this is such a politically sensitive issue that we know how to solve it now. [[...]] Given that you initially said that you insist on the basic text, I suppose, or logically, that you oppose these three amendments. Thank you. I mean the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Any other Members of Parliament? I think it is time to round up the debate on this article and the amendments, because those of us who have been to the meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy have already heard all this. Please, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you. In the form of a replica - on all three forerunners, except the last. I didn't mean to advertise, but now that I'm listening to inconsistent discussions, I'm going to point them out, and I want a clear response from the government, or someone else in Europe knows representativeness, except our attempt. And of course, because I know you don't - I'll answer that myself. I think that this representativeness and such a compromise attempt between the two existing associations to seek a solution is inconsistent, not in the transitional provisions with amendments or in the transitional period, what would be, what if a third, stronger association appeared, how it would be in the delegation at that time. I think it would be right to talk only about the last paragraph: criteria for representation in international organisations, but not in this way. But it is true that I am on the committee the author of that proposal on quarters: a quarter. However, we need to look at representativeness if we are to decide on representativeness. You have two views. Once we have to have a critical mass so that we can talk about some representativeness. This was the subject of extensive discussions in the previous term when a strict criterion was reached: more than half of the municipalities and by the number of inhabitants. Otherwise it's hard to talk. In the literal sense of the word, how can I speak about representativeness? And a quarter: a quarter. It's one compromise, I admit. It is better to talk about clear criteria for how representation in international organisations will be determined. Now, of course, I am taking advantage of the opportunity, because there is so much time available, and I am also the author of an amendment to delete the last paragraph. It makes sense to me that associations pay their costs by system from the bottom up. Because this is one of the most prestigious reasons to fight for representativeness. However, I would like to point out the great danger allowed by the fifth paragraph of this Article, as proposed by the Government. In view of the practice that the government or ministries or executive authorities of the State are increasingly neglecting cooperation with local communities, individually and broadly, in the total number that this paragraph poses the risk that this communication will become worse and that it is being put between local communities, I am talking about the multitude of local communities, and the executive power of some tampon or some new power centre representing such and such interests. In particular, on the issue of increasing costs for municipal budgets in the child protection area, the government, as a government, did not find it necessary to convene all 192 municipalities, but operated with some views from representatives of associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u73	Mrs. Orzmova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u74	I would like to replicate Mr Trofenik's amendment on the deletion of the ninth paragraph. I think this government proposal is logical and the government has been working properly here. Once again, delegations are appointed by the Government and the Minister. Delegations representing the municipalities of the Congress of Local and Regional Communities in the Council of Europe. If this is not all that we have now, then I don't think the government or the state has to provide the means to participate in these things. However, we have already been in a situation, and you, Mr Trophynik, well know that we did not have any more money for sending a delegated congress at all, and that we were already in a situation where the Slovenians as a country did not participate. This is not the case for the past few years, but we have been in such a situation that there were simply not enough resources to send delegations to Europe at all if this country and if this country thinks that you are walking, as Mr Lavrinc said, people, to delegate to one of the constituent parts of the world of Europe 'afne runt', then there is really no need to provide these funds. Personally, I have not been at any of these, although I was a deputy before, but I think this is a very hard job and the government is now involved and also invited to these meetings, and it has been possible to conclude that this is quite hard work, I will say, exactly the same as any other state delegation. And since these delegations, once again, are appointed by the minister and the government, not by the association itself, then I think it is also appropriate to finance them. To know what kind of funds they're talking about, that's about two million a year.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u75	Replica Mr. Trophynik and then a replica of Mr. Pucko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u76	Although I hate to, but still, just because of the last sentence. When it comes to the cost of two million a year, the sum of municipal budgets, which measures about 140, 160 billion, if I am not mistaken, is an insurmountable amount and an insurmountable problem. Also, if we just sum up the costs of mayors, administrations and municipal councils. That can't be an argument. But I meant something else. This is not about representatives of the congregations of all one hundred and ninety-nines in a Council of Europe, I am speaking, but about representatives of representative associations, which may even be in a minority by this definition and in the spirit of these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u77	Mr. Pucko. You're giving up? Okay, can we do it now? There's no more discussion, no more replicas. We can conclude the debate on amendments and articles and move to a vote. I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendments to Article 11 and, of course, Article 11. We will vote in kind, as the amendments are written. So first we vote on the amendment under order number one. We're voting, please. Of the 51 present, 38 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. We're voting on the second amendment. This reminds you of the footnote below. If this amendment is adopted, then the amendments under order number 3 and 4 are irrelevant. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Excuse me. I interrupt the vote, Mr Rokavec - explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. I announced earlier in the debate that it would be most reasonable to reject all the amendments and follow the basic text proposed by the Government, because I am confident that with any change in the criteria for obtaining representativeness, we will only make much more unrest in this area and probably not benefit from the development, assembly of municipalities, in order to actually develop local self-government in a positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We can now proceed to the vote on the amendment under order number 2. Yes, you can. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 36 members and Members voted against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] The amendment was accepted. With this amendment adopted, the amendments under order number 3 and 4, as I said earlier, are irrelevant. And we are voting on the amendment under order number 5. We are voting on the amendment under order number 5. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 13 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 6. We're voting, please. Of the 52 present, 37 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on Amendment 7. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 10 were voted against, 31 were against. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 31.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under number 8. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 7 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Here's the ninth amendment. We are voting on the amendment under order number 9. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 4 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour, up to 44. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 11 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at Article 12, where we have two amendments. I am opening a debate on the amendments and the article. Who wants a word? Mrs. Zupanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I would like a small addition to the amendment, which would complement "the invitation to all meetings of the working bodies of the state authorities."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u81	Can you please repeat that?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u82	The word "employees" would be supplemented by the word "employees" and the word "employees" would also be inserted. [[...]] By clearly defining the invitation to all meetings of the working bodies of the public authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u83	Are there any other bodies? Yes, you can. Therefore, in the preceding line of Article 12, you propose that for the comma where the text reads, "it shall be invited to all meetings of work". So your suggestion is to insert the word "work" here. All right, we've heard the supplement. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u84	Actually, I wonder what this amendment refers to. In fact, if you're saying that it's necessary to invite representatives to all the meetings of the bodies of the state authorities that deal with it, that means to the boards of the government for social regulation, to, I don't know, the office for local government self-government, and so on -- that's what you thought? If that's what you mean, in this case, I'll go against it, because it's definitely an unacceptable method. But if you were thinking of working bodies of the National Assembly, that would be closer, and you would probably be able to support it. In this case, it is such a complicated matter that it can practically happen that the government office invites you for local self-government, but you do not come, because you do not agree that any things would change, regulate and so on, and of course these changes could never happen at all. However, if we are talking about the stage when there is a matter in the procedure when this is being dealt with, as we have something similar now, that the municipal councils declare certain laws relating to specific rights in this area, we are sent to the municipal councils first and then we receive these opinions back. Now you are exacerbating this situation, which would be acceptable for me if this were the case for the National Assembly. However, if this applies to all working bodies of all national authorities, this is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I think it is right that the representatives of the local communities to which it is decided are invited to meetings where it is decided to do so. If it is technically impossible for them to participate in the government, then we agree - at least now it has been such a practice or should have been - should be as you have suggested, Mr Anderlich, that it be valid for the meetings of the working bodies of the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u88	Given that you do not have information on whether or not this amendment is supported by the government, I would like to say in particular that it cannot be supported because it is too wide-arranged, it interferes too much with the way in which all state authorities operate, in other words, courts do. So if you interpret things the way it says it, it's a little strangely set.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u89	Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u90	I would like to ask Mrs Zupanovo whether I have correctly understood that they are correcting this amendment by saying "inviting all the meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly which are being discussed" and so on. This was also a discussion at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u91	Please, Mrs. Zupanova, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u92	We are correcting and agree to limit ourselves only to meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u93	It is said that this text for the comma reads: "...it is invited to all meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly" and then forwards as it is written. Isn't that right, Mrs. Zupanova? Have you all fixed this correction now repaired by Mrs. Zupanov? So, such an amended amendment is the subject of debate and decision. So it's the working bodies of the National Assembly and nothing else. Who wants another word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendments and the article. First, let's vote on the first amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 52 present, 32 members and Members voted in favour. 14 was against it. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 14th.]] Article 12 is hereby amended and, in this case, the vote or decision on the amendment under order number 2 is irrelevant. Article 13(3) Here we have first in this collection of amendments to the amendment under order number one, which is irrelevant. It's not? The government will tell. Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u94	Yes, I would just like to point out that, in our opinion, this Internal Policy Committee has confirmed the amendment to Article 12 text. We believe these two amendments are not being ruled out. That's how we support the other amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u95	Yeah, now we're at Article 13.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u96	And me, I'm sorry. For the 12th, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u97	This is what we will do, then we will deal with it later, if it is - yes, of course, we are now in Article 13. Article 13 makes the first amendment irrelevant. The second amendment is fine. I mean, there's material in the collection. It's in the board's files. Then I ask your attention, we have an amendment here where Mr. Jože Tanko is signed, this is an amendment to the amendment of the committee. And then there is one more on the special paper, the amendment to Article 13, a group of Members with Mr Kontic's first-signed. So we'll go in this order when we vote. So, let's start with - just a moment. First, we have an amendment to the amendment. So we will first vote on the amendment to Mr Tank's amendment, then follow the amendment of the committee and then the amendment of the group of Members with Mr Kontic's first-signed. I am opening a debate on all amendments and articles. Who wants a word? Mrs. Zalokareva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u98	I propose that the government also define these new amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u99	That's what he usually does. Who wants a word from the Members and Members? [[No one else.]] Therefore, by Members, there is no debate, we ask the Government's opinion on these amendments. Just give me a moment to set up the real papers. Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u100	As far as the amendment relating to the mayor's salaries is concerned, that, perhaps, a partial amendment, of course, is supported because it is actually governed by some of the relations that have been in the municipalities at this time, could be said to be open, and even when the government has prepared this text, it has somehow fallen out because we felt that this should be regulated in an article on salaries. This is mainly the problem of meetings with members of the municipal council, and this is a problem of additions for which some of the uncertainties in the current legislation have been raised. I therefore believe that this amendment by Ambassador Kontić is fully supported by the Government. But I apologize for the other one because we're still looking.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u101	Can any of the Members explain because I don't see Mr Tank in this room what this is all about? So, if I may say so. The idea of this amendment is that the proposaler, Mr Tank, seems wrong to have a higher salary than the mayor's. We're supposed to fix this with this amendment. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u102	I would like to ask what this amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic differs from the amendment of the Government to Article 13 if they can explain it to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u103	Can the government answer that, please? You said earlier that you support Mr Kontić's amendment, so it will probably not be difficult to answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u104	One more time. We have said that this amendment, which has been tabled, is in fact a partial amendment, is practically a second part of the amendment concerning salaries and deals only with the issue of setting up meetings of members of municipal councillors and additives; what have already been ambiguities. We were warned about them in the legislation, but subsequently, when the government had already drawn up a proposal. I am talking about Mr Kontic's amendment, while we are opposed to the other amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u105	So, if we have heard correctly, the amendment tabled by Mr Kontic is acceptable to the government. The amendment tabled by Mr Tanko is not. Is that what you thought? Good. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u106	As there is obviously some confusion, I will indisputably say my opinion, which has been in line with the Members of Liberal Democracy, in this article we open only an amendment to the proposal where Mr Bojan Kontič is first signed and the Group of Members has tabled it, but not the others. It is simply a matter of reasoning why we cannot go into the pay system in this place; simply because we passed a law on salaries in the public sector 14 days or three weeks ago and where the law provides for regulation in the next period of this area, also for this area, i.e. local self-government, wages, and, of course, it is not acceptable for us to change what we adopted in this law in such a short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u107	If I may ask, I don't know if I understand correctly, so you only support Mr. Contic's amendment and the amendment of the committee and Mr. Tank's not? Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Nobody else? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u108	I don't know if I'm wrong or if I don't have the right amendment. If I compare these amendments to the Committee's amendment on page 10, these two matters are the same, paragraphs 6 and 7 are the same - I do not know what the difference is. So after that, I ask what is the difference between this amendment and the amendment to the Committee, paragraph 6 and paragraph 7 of Article 100b.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u109	Madam Secretary of State, can you explain?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u110	I can explain. In essence, the amendment committees also include changes in the salaries of mayors, while the subsequent amendment excludes part of this, which is important and - as I say - the government also supports it - because it is a relationship within the current legislation, and is summarized in only one part, i.e. in the last part, in two paragraphs. In fact, the Committees of the amendment; in my view, if the Committees of the amendment are adopted, then, in any event, the amendment of Mr Kontić becomes irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Look, there's been a lot of speeches in this national council about the salary imbalance between mayors. In fact, if Mr Kontić's amendment is adopted, then there will be a current imbalance between the lowest category and the highest category between 3,5 and 9. So the ratio of 1:3 between the salary levels of the mayors. We do know, however, that the mayor of a smaller municipality, even if he has, say, 3,000 people or less, performs a whole series of other parts that the mayor has to do because he cannot have [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u113	Peace in the hall, please. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you. Because he cannot have as much support as the mayor, for example, some major municipality or city municipality, which actually has the whole administration. The fact is that the current wage ratio and the imbalance in this situation between 3.5 and 9 is unacceptable. It would probably make sense to listen to what the Internal Policy Committee has done to at least partially reduce these imbalances. An attempt in this direction would probably be an attempt to actually not create an additional negative atmosphere in the public, to try at each segment, in any case give a worse position to smaller municipalities. I am convinced that the only amendment of the Internal Policy Committee could actually resolve these issues, which have been repeatedly raised so far, to some extent at least slightly, not entirely, but probably at least so much so that these negative climates, which have been mainly present for the mayors of smaller municipalities for a number of years, are somewhat less present.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much. See, there is an unsustainable relationship that currently exists in this area that mayors of smaller municipalities have two to three times less wages than directors of institutions, schools, kindergartens whose founder is this municipality. But these directors come to this mayor with every inspector's decision, "It's your fault, you're responsible." What message should we give the voters before the local elections if we do not correct this imbalance? What attitude do we have toward these local communities if we do not correct this imbalance? Simply, this closes the way for competition to occupy these still important cities in local self-government. I think the board's reached some sort of smart consensus. It should be noted, however, that this is not an exceptional number of people, that there are 5,000 and fewer congregations of people, 92, 93, and that there are still some awards to the congregation councilors, and that is all. It is true, however, that this attitude towards municipalities or mayors with less than 5,000 inhabitants is once again evidence of the majority of the ratio in this national assembly to rural communities, to these small local communities. That's quite a repeat from the story to the story. I'm also sure no one can be convinced otherwise. Tell me what's wrong with the mayor of one small municipality under 3,000 people, that he deserves six times his salary from the Secretary of the Humanitarian Organization.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, look. I want to say again what I said in my presentation. It is not correct, it is not fair and it is not true that you claim that this National Assembly or most are not prepared to accept different wage ratios for the mayors as well. This decision has already been taken. Most of them were accepted in this National Assembly. At the time you were on these solutions for other reasons, not because of these, you were in opposition against and you had a right. You said you're against it because there's too little coordination with the social partners. And it was part of the alignment. We are of the opinion that if we have adopted this law because we have corrected the anomaly that the system of wage relations in the public sector has regulated some ten regulations and that we have also repealed the provisions concerning the regulation of these different, wage-based different ways and have uniformly regulated that it is wrong to change it after a month. And that's all we do. But we know that it will also be for the mayors - and if you want to, we want to report here today, but it is only from 1.1.2004 - that there will be a different basis for wage levels. I'll say it again. Material relationships are not correct. Also, the fact that they may wait a year is certainly not right for them. It would only be even less correct if we went a month after we adopted a law with so many different views, now only in some other segment to resolve. And don't say it has anything to do with the countryside. He doesn't have one. He doesn't have one. Because we have established different relationships there, which are at least better than those laid down here in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u119	Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I would like to discuss in the context of the amendment tabled by the Committee, namely, I miss another criterion, not only the number of inhabitants, but also the numbers created, I will say, added values. Only twenty-six municipalities are according to what they are, without the financial leveling of the country. And it bothers me, for example, that it says, "Five paragraph changes by saying: the mayor's allowance is 50%." It is quite fixed, 50% - no: up to, but 50% - of the basis for the calculation of the salary of the highest evaluated function. I think it would be worth thinking about a relationship here, it is said that those municipalities that create more and are therefore disadvantaged because they are not equal to the country, but those who get this compensation, that those mayors here can be better rewarded than I will say here, for these small municipalities - now the mayors have poor salaries - up to 3,000 people. They don't even meet the conditions for the municipalities to be in the final stage. We've heard that before. Now no municipality with a population of less than 5,000 has received this status. That is how I think that this is not going in the right direction and that we have to behave here with the municipalities in the same way as we will when we listen to the Finance Minister at the balance sheet when he asks where the added value is created. I think that even here we should behave in this sense and that this fixed amount of 50% is not correct, it should be "do" left to the authorities of the municipality to decide whether the mayor deserves this supplement because it is quite fixed. There's stimulation everywhere, it's some kind of stimulation that some supervisors give to their employees based on work results, not fixed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u121	Then we have the replicas ahead, Mr Kremjar, Mr Terčon and Mr Trofenik. Mr. Kremjar. I apologize for Mr Kremjar, Mr Lavrinc. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u122	Of course it's two stories. I am only saying that it would be perfectly clear what we were defending, that it would not be further inspired by an idea or something that was not. It's a story about broken relationships, and that was the point, and it was the desire to fix it. It was therefore a proposal that we supported on the Internal Policy Committee. Not to raise the mayor's salary. You need to be very specific here. Even if this is the result, you can smile as much as you want. But no one wondered when the salaries rose to senior administrative workers and others, causing this anomaly in which we are now. Of course, no one was smiling about it at the time. But what I'm saying is, that was the point. The purpose was really good. On the other hand, if we achieve this goal, we will break the law that we have just adopted. That's why he can't be realized. I don't know why you're not smiling right now. [[Laugh.]] I'm sorry. So, I'm saying we have two stories and they're very complicated. Whatever we do, it's not good, but something has to be done. I will do it myself by voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Look at what I think is going on, and I'm going to make that decision. I wasn't already on the board for this case to be settled here. It is simply that the signal from this National Assembly will now come out the next. First of all, we've taken care of the mayor's gentlemen. Where are the schoolchildren now, but I don't know who else; it threatens with strike, referendum and so on. These are the facts, gentlemen. There's talk about the big billions that the government is still talking about. Even when the law was passed, when it was not, and so on. This is one message. The second message will be that we do not believe that this law, which we have adopted, will bring good rewards in the public sector. Why they themselves do not believe that this law will bring about a balance of wages in the public sector. For those of you who speak, see the salaries, some cases of excellence. Don't always look up at the wages. Look down, too. Go to the factories, where we're begging, and when those amendments are there together and we're trying, I'll say, almost poor companies help and so on. Think about those. Well, not always up there just looking. The second thing I'd say is: the imbalances that have arisen. Look, then our wages are disproportionate. We're all the time -- and I'm going to say it publicly today because it's not enough to say it -- all the time we've been paying our own wages. Even this is what we did when first with our own conclusions at Kviaz, here, in the National Assembly, then with the laws and even so we went to let even other workers in the public sector move forward for what was inflation and not us. Of course, the mayors also experienced a similar fate. And there's no way to say it, but now one of them's moved on. It is true, however, that there is a disproportionateity, that it is in fact incomprehensible that one kindergarten director has more than, say, the mayor who is preparing all these things and so on. That's all true. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us trust the system that we have actually adopted here; let us trust that these imbalances will improve, but we will have to start thinking, not only because of these austerity measures, that some wages will have to be "restricted", some may be slightly improved, but we will all have to live together, at least as far as wages are concerned, a little less modest. After all, it's just consumption. What's spending, and we all know it. So I'm going to say: I'm not going to support such an amendment myself, as we've talked about, for all the reasons I've listed here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u125	Since there are more replicas, at this time, I would like to ask the Minister if he can react at this moment to see, maybe then some replica will be smaller or more, I don't know. We'll see.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u126	Yes, I would like to say quite clearly and explicitly that we do not support the amendment regarding the special arrangement of the mayors' salaries. There's a lot of arguments for that. I firmly believe that the law we have adopted will begin to eliminate the imbalances with 1.1.2004. This is how we have made commitments in relation to regulations, collective agreements and so on. If we start to adopt regulations that will partially resolve individual issues, as proposed for today, then of course we are interfering with the decision we have taken, making it difficult to implement within the time limit set. Perhaps I should remind you of the analysis made as a basis for the implementation of the new wage system in the public sector. This analysis shows not only one imbalance, but even a series of imbalances, criminal relations and it would not be right if we started by eliminating these imbalances with a partial rule right in the mayors. In this way, we would have repeated many critical mistakes from the past when we were actually setting the system with partial decisions in individual parts of the public sector. So that the decision on the special arrangement of the mayoral salaries, despite the fact that they keep the findings - not only expressed here, but also in the analysis - that they are in great disassociation and here, such a decision would nevertheless not be good, would reach into the system regime that has been adopted, and would probably also achieve unloving demonstration effects in trade unions or parts of employees in the public sector. I therefore explicitly repeat the Government's position that this amendment is not accepted in this part. As regards the amendment by Mr Kontić, this does not apply to salaries. This does not affect the applicable wage system in any way. This only deals with the more explicit issue of meetings. That is why we do not oppose or support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u127	Mr. Tarchoon, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u128	I must say that in this package of legislation of local self-government, if we go to the vote, I think there will be a lot of differences between the votes on the committees and in the national assembly, including with one and the same Members, so that the positions will be changed several times. I expected Mr Minister to remove some of my doubts now, but there are no, so I will ask an additional question and demand an answer. First of all, because, I think, a little bit at the beginning of the debate, I would like to ask whether the proposed amendment is contrary to the law on the public sector wage system. And if it is, what it is. If that's the case, then I won't support this amendment myself. However, if I have correctly understood when the amendment was being prepared - which we have also discussed with the Ministry - this amendment is not contrary to the law on the public sector wage system. The Public Sector Wage System Act has established relations, Mr. Minister. And you claimed to me that these numbers were inside the relationship. Now, if they're not, of course, you can prove to me that she was wrong and that she's in conflict with the law. Furthermore, the law on the public sector wage system says that it will apply 1.1.2004 - until then, it does not say that it will start 1.1. but that the regulations will be adopted by then. Now we're in the "until then" period, so we're not breaking it again. Of course, in this period, "by then", if we do not adopt this amendment, there will be a need to adopt sub-legislative rules; this will be a decree, I have heard, which we will also adopt in this national assembly, and this should regulate these relations. When it was pointed out that these relations were broken, we were told by the government that it would indicate in the Wage System Act that we would find a shorter transitional period for these salaries of municipal officials; this did not go to law. And now we're in a period of "until" when we can fix it; if it's not otherwise, it doesn't ruin anything. Now, if you're going to convince me that it's the opposite and that it's destroying something, I'm going to change my mind. But, Minister, please be explicit and tell us what is breaking the law on the public sector wage system in this amendment and why we are not meant to, because we announced in the law on the public sector wage system that by then, by 1.1.2004, we will have arranged for this period. And what is a better opportunity than the law on local self-government to handle this? I don't see a better chance on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u129	Here you are, Mr. Secretary, perhaps it is best that you respond immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u130	The law does not conflict with the law on public sector wage systems, so this is not a mistake. We have explicitly stated that the ratios, the ranges that are envisaged for mayors in the new law, are thus possible to cover the numbers proposed here. In short, it's not the opposite of height. However, it is on at least two other issues - after the application of the law has started. The law is explicitly applicable to all, after the transitional provision on the public sector wage system, from 1.1.2004. This means that, on this issue, it is contrary to the fact that the proportionality is beginning to be eliminated before the law applies to the public sector wage system. Earlier -- why earlier, it's a big question. Why don't we go to school, to culture, and somewhere else? Because when we adopt the law on the public sector wage system, we have adopted the concept that the whole system should be developed through collective contracts for the public sector, collective agreements for the activity of the industry, the classification of professions and jobs and titles in the salary scale of the five-hundred-and-fifty classes and the implementation of the whole classification evaluation operation for all parts of the public sector. This was the approach that was taken as a system. And another approach has been adopted that we have the same law that will regulate salaries in the public sector and that we will not then regulate the sector-specific wage laws for individual categories. As we have today's criticism of today's situation, where we have special salaries for different categories, the decision on a single system, a single law, is based on the fact that there will be no more partial rules, such as the law on local self-government, regulated area of wages. And in this sense, of course, the proposal to partially settle this is absolutely contrary to the concept adopted by the new Law on Public Sector Salaries. But it's not in height. We also regulated the ranges by height, because at the same time there was a debate about one law and another law and there was nothing controversial about the ranges. But I suggest that you do not accept this amendment because we will make this the first "prejudice" when we start to regulate an area that is currently on the table with some of the factors that the law no longer knows. These are the mayors. I don't think that's a good thing and it's interfering with the decisions already made.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I repeat to Mr Vnučec, I think his position on the added value and merit of the mayors where they are self-financing is not unacceptable - wrong. You know, in no way is the credit of a colleague of Spacapan, as an example in Nova Gorica, that the plus has about two billion over an appropriate spending. This is a random distribution of income and a division of tax from casinos or gambling. You can't do that! As is not the case - what is the fault, specifically the mayor of the town municipality of Kranj, who receives one of the few or as a city municipality, I think there are some such cases on the border financial level. The distribution of income in Slovenia is not due or due to the fault of the mayors, it is the same as it is. And because it is a major source, among others, of course, they are not guilty, nor do they have credit for self-financing or not self-financing, but a system that they have established in one way or another.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, your colleagues and colleagues! With my replica, I would probably like to contribute to ending this wrong debate. We do ourselves a bear service and give ourselves to the people. We've only just adopted one marriage, and we want to change it one way or another, come and go. Mr. Secretary has already eaten what I wanted to say. If we accept that, it'll be a chain reaction. Everyone's gonna say, "Why don't I, if I have one?" My colleague Kremjar probably got engaged when he said, "We're changing relationships, but we're not changing wages." That's not true. If these relationships were to change, they would have to increase the wages and wages for certain ones. I mean, that's what I'm saying. When we have a budget rebalancing here in a short time, and when we see on the other hand that the government is blocking wages and keeping them still in some proportion, because if the public sector -- now we accept it, the economic objection will be again, as my colleague Lavrinc said nicely. Let us face others, not just the public sector, which we also belong to. We therefore propose that, let us not discuss this issue again, let us remain faithful to our principle that we have adopted a law on public sector wages that will enter into force on 1 January. Until then, however, all those who have such or other wishes must, without prejudice to the fact that they are justified in all likelihood, which should save the wage law on civil servants only in January, be a little patient, and let us end this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u135	We have four more replicas. Mrs Drobnic, Mrs Zalokar, Mr Malovra and Mr Vnučec. Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to replicate Mr. Lavrinc, but I can see he's not in the hall. That's why the replica will be shorter. So, Mr Lavrinc's debate is very demagogic, which now calls on us to behave differently and that we are guilty of adopting a law on the system of public sector wages. We have told the opposition how we feel about these payers, about the system and the principle of acceptance, so there is no responsibility. However, if he wants to consider this in his own way, let the LDS Group agree on how to deal with the topics. About the mayor's salaries. It is possible, of course, that the tops of the tranche will also be reduced. That's possible, too. Not just the lower ones. But, as I see it, it's pointless to replicate anything else. I won't take the time, and we can move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokareva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate Mr. Lavrinc, too. That is to say, the fact is that, for principle's reasons, it is indeed necessary to attach to the arguments put forward by the Government and to those who oppose this amendment. I'm saying, for principle reasons. I am sorry, however, that it will send out what this Parliament will give, even in the opposite sense, very badly. Those arguments that spoke about the lack of support for the amendment have already been said. However, I would like to highlight the second part of the communications that this Parliament will make. Since I belong to the "gentlemen" at this time, as has been said, I think this matter has been a negative surprise to me, because it seems to me that it has not been said and it has been said significantly too ironic, but it must be said, and I think it is right that the public knows that at this point this "gentleman" has lower wages in most municipalities than the directors of kindergartens, lower wages than the directors of health homes, lower wages than school directors, lower wages than the heads of pharmacies, lower wages than the directors of public institutions whose founder is the municipality. And this message, which we give them from the congregation of the State, is this: Unfortunately, you have not come at the right time; indeed you have not come at the right time; and you will suffer the injustice ahead. And it is right to say that this will be done this way. Mayors, I can tell from my case. For eight years, I am mayoring, and I can also say that at the moment, I am not interested in this story for any material and personal benefit, because I do not intend to run for the new elections in the autumn, not because of the question of wages. That wages were always as rare in Slovenia as they were, in fact, at the same level or raised by some 4.5 percent annually. And the message that seems bad to me is that, according to my assessment, the congregations that need to be very good and qualityly managed, the municipal budgets, we have already heard how many billions are turning, will be poorly managed. These services will not be interesting, and at this point these functions are no longer interesting for people who will perform this function in a good way, because on the one hand, the mayor is a praetor for anyone. This is a man whom everyone turns to, who doesn't like anything in this country, from the courts, the government, parliament and so on, and the only person they come to without problems. It's not easy to be a pretzel. And that's a long way from making someone feel like they're gentlemen. And, of course, it seems to me that, in this way, it is not appropriate to have such a depressed debate here in Parliament. I think our daily life depends deeply on how well the mayors do, on the garbage, on the quality of water, on kindergartens, and so on, which depends enormously on it. And if my feeling is being mismanaged, and these jobs are no longer interesting and attractive, then I don't think this country is good. It is true, however, that, in the context of the principled debates we have, the moment is somewhat inappropriate for anything to be done in this area. Nobody wanted to do anything for four years.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u139	Mr. Malovre, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Much of the debate has already been taken from me by my colleague, like the wind in the sails. Well, I have to say something else in defense of these parish gentlemen. Given that the congregations have difficulty in employing good staff because they cannot pay them, even in the second level, the third level - every lawyer, when we raise him, when he passes the judicial exam, goes away. That's one. Second. What bothers me here in the amendment, as well as in existing legislation, are the prizes or salaries of the saints. You know, the mayors are turning, as has already been said, a lot of money and taking care of it and also taking care of the legality and everything that is written in the law on local self-government. The mayor, who serves as an unofficial mayor, gets 50% of the salary and the councilman gets 15% of the mayor's salary. It is said that he gets almost, if someone does unprofessionally, almost once more and the difference between one and the other is very, very small. Well, I was lucky or bad luck, and yesterday there was a full moon and a meeting of the municipal world and I listened to the infertile debates of the saints affected by the moon, and I also noticed that a lot of people had opened an envelope at the meeting -- and would get 15% of the mayor's salary for it, and not bear any responsibility, just raises his hand, is "for" or "against", and no one looked at it. And if I take another, municipalities with a large number of inhabitants such as Ljubljana, Maribor, Koper, Kranj; you know, the salaries of the saints or the awards of the saints are approaching or approaching about a million tolars - and this is the pay of the merchant who works in Mercator's shop, the year-round salary - for coming twice a month to the meeting, for not bearing any responsibility. A million tolars a year! This is the pay of the store, it is also paid by the hospital server, it is paid by a bunch of people in Slovenia About this no one asked in this national assembly. Everyone sees the mayor as a lightning rod, in which he can collide with the left and right, which is responsible, as Mrs Zalokarev said, for all those garbage that others cause, then for all those riots that others cause, while those who are supposed to make responsible decisions as saints, but not as often as I see them as critics, will be richly rewarded. And here I would also like to hear the Minister's opinion on this amendment by Mr Kontić, as well as on the 100.b article itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would reply to Mr Trofenik's replica and also take advantage of the performances of my two speakers, which convinced me even more that I was right about this functionary supplement. When I spoke about the added value, I also purposely said how many congregations there are that go beyond the guaranteed consumption. I may have been a little awkward, I didn't mean the strict added value, but it is also a successful mayor for strict compensation, so for building land, that it is an apron like Mrs Orazmova said she is talking to people. These are all criteria that should also affect the mayor's salaries. And it bothers me that then this supplement is fixed here, 50%, should be "do" because then those mayors, who are consistent, who also, because of their consistency in managing municipal property, create higher revenues, are disadvantaged because they don't get the compensation. On the other hand, they could give greater exemptions to building land, not manage municipal property and simply rely on balancing, even those at the border, and they would be clearly on the same budget. So I think that this stimulation should also be included here, if not now, but in the future definitely to evaluate that other work of the mayors, even in their free time. I know cases when the mayors call at midnight for purely such matters, which have nothing to do with the congregation. Only the population criteria are too low.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Grošelj is withdrawing the replica. Mr. Trophynik, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u144	Mr. Grandchild! I would advise you to take a closer look at the public finances system or the system of financial settlement in and between municipalities. What you're saying is simply not true. The system is such that if the mayor proposes and the municipal council accepts this in order to compensate as much as possible and to punish the municipality because there is less financial compensation. That's how this system of yours can't hold up. And second of all, what you said about fixed or not fixed, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] We would advise you to look back on one term or the law before 1998; then the mayors ’ allowances were moving according to political suitability according to the criteria of the municipal council. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Once again, it will be clear how we will vote. First of all, it is the amendment tabled by Mr Tanko. Then the amendment we have in this summary review is under order number 2. The third is Mr Kontic's amendment, if I may say so. It's the order. Let us vote on Mr Tank's amendment to make it perfectly clear. Let's vote, please! Of the 64 present, 22 voted in favour. 39 Members and Members were opposed. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Then the committee's amendment follows. Let's vote, please! Of the 63 present, 22 Members and Members voted in favour. 36 were against it. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Then there's Mr. Kontic's amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 61 present, 41 members and Members voted in favour. There were 12 against it. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us now vote on Article 13 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 61 present, 48 votes in favour and 6 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 14(4) Here we have in this collection five amendments and a correction on a special sheet of paper, a correction of this material. I am opening a debate on Article 14 and the amendments. Who wants a word? Mr. Barovich. Procedural? Mrs. Majnikov. Excuse me, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u146	I withdraw the amendment referred to in the examination under number 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u147	Ms. Majnikov's withdrawal of the amendment, which is under review number 3. Moved. This is in the joint review, and in the revised review this is under number 2. Mr Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I propose that you accept the amendments of the Slovenian National Party. I can give you three reasons why. 1. This amendment is discriminatory in our view, i.e. in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, and my personal one and is contrary to Article 43 of the Constitution, which states that every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who has reached the age of 18, has the right to vote and be loved. 2. If anyone tells me that the Roma have a special position. Yes, they do, but this is stipulated in laws that are lower than the Constitution. Next time. This Article 14 is at least in my opinion and, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and some of the colleagues of lawyers, it is very strangely written and controversial. Firstly, it defines, in addition to listing the places that they must - you know what this is about - and ultimately defines "to the 2002 regular local elections". What if this law, for example, had been passed in November or December and had entered into force in January 2003? And a second time. Article 14 of this Article does not make the law completely clear how it will be from here on out. Otherwise, the points 2 and 3 I am talking about are not worth talking about, because once again, I stress that it is discriminatory. Why do all of us, from the first to the last, have to fight in an election campaign, go to elections, vote, and some of us are given membership in the municipal world. In our view, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, this is wrong, contrary to Article 43 of the Constitution. That is why I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that you accept our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you. Mrs. Bitenchev has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u150	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I would just like to point out to the assembly that, with the withdrawal of the amendment of Ambassador Majnikov, the envisaged ratio of articles, namely: Article 101, which the Government considered to be a transitional provision to replace, has also changed, in the light of the opinion of the secretariat with its amendment, to Article 101a(a), to maintain the previous transitional provision and to amend the proposed Article 101(b) following the amendment of the Government so far. It is a pure technique, so that from this point of view it would suggest that the amendment should be withdrawn, or whether it now shows at the time of the withdrawal that has already been carried out, it would be possible to think about some editorial amendment that would provide the current text.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you very much for this explanation, which surprised us a little. Please, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A brief replica of Mr Barovic's implementation of what it means to enter the electoral campaign and all the democratic procedure that exists in elections that is not supposed to exist for special seats in the municipal councils or in the national assembly, Mr Barovic should be interested in the candidates who have performed so far for these cities, both those who have been elected, as well as those who have not been, what this actually means. While we know that in small customers, especially in a proportional system, this may even be easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you. Replica Mr. Barovic, then [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u154	Mr Battelli, I have no doubt about your experience, however. I am not discussing what was, whether questionable or not, it is perfectly clear to me; Article 14 is written to the rapporteur, and its contents are also completely clear to me and to the Slovenian National Party, that we know that it is completely unclear and discriminatory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u155	Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian national party proposes deleting Article 14 for one perfectly simple reason. The fact is, the Gypsies in Slovenia multiply in number from day to day. New Gypsies from Kosovo come to Slovenia from day to day [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u157	Allow me, Mr Jelinčič, now the official speech in this House also requires appropriate terminology. We are talking about the Roma and I would ask you if you could follow the rules of the game that apply in this house.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u158	Mr. Vice President, my old father spoke to the Gypsies, my father spoke to the Gypsies, I spoke to the Gypsies a few years ago, and we all spoke to the Gypsies a few years ago and if we take [[...]] [[Conversations with each other, advertising from the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u159	Look, you can say that in the inn or with your own, I don't know who you want. But we have an official title that we all use and respect. And I ask you to follow the rules of the game that apply in this house. And they are also valid in a civilized world. In the Council of Europe, for example. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u160	Mr Vice President, I think Kalman's opera is still called the Gypsy Baron, not the Rom Baron. Besides, if they've read a Belogardistic oath twice here in the National Assembly, I don't know what's wrong with talking the way my mother taught me. Don't interrupt me. From day to day, there are several members of this community. They come from Kosovo, they come from Bosnia, they come from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Many cannot be defined, for they are largely without documents. Now they are also demanding through the United Nations Charter and through their representative, Mr Krivica, that they be recognised as being of some kind or even of citizenship, 83 thousand by number. Among them are some 8 to 9,000 members of this community. And these people who are not registered anywhere will become voters and will receive their direct representatives in certain municipalities or how, Mr Battelli? [[...]] In the municipal councils, they will receive their one representative and, for example, in the municipal councils, where there are six people, there will be one representative of their community. I think this is discriminatory to all the other inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. And I don't think we should afford that kind of thing. The comparison with Europe is not true. In Europe, members of this community do not have direct representatives in any authority. And I think we're going to the Slovenians here, so that we can be pleasing to some gentlemen from Europe, we're going to play a game to be more papal than the Pope. This will still hit us; from Europe, because I am sure that in two years at the latest, we will have to turn this issue back into the present situation. I therefore propose once again that Article 14 of this Act be deleted and that we adopt the amendments of the Slovenian National Parties under point 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u161	Mr. Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you. Reploje Jelinčiču and everyone, both colleagues from the Slovenian National Party. Of course, I'm not surprised by this debate. I'd be surprised if it was different. It is normal for the Slovenian National Party to defend such views and to propose legislation accordingly. But I would like to remind him that there is, of course, positive and negative discrimination. And that we are used as a mature modern European country, which can be exemplary in regulating the rights of national communities and minorities, of course through positive discrimination and from this title also regulated such rights. I would also point out that there is a Article 65 of the Constitution which regulates and provides for the exercise of the rights of the Roma community by law, and such a solution falls within the framework of the implementation of this Article. We have, for the first time, the possibility and the right of this community to have its representative in a secured seat in the congregation where this community lives by appropriate procedure. It is not a gifted seat, it is a seat to be elected, like everyone else, on a special key and on the basis of a special electoral directory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u163	First, Mrs Areh Lavrič has a replica, then Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I believe that this article is unclear, legally unclear, and I ask the Secretariat for an assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u165	Excuse me. Did you ask the secretariat for an evaluation? Because if it's constitutionally unclear, then the secretariat can't give that interpretation or something.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u166	I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u167	Can you please ask the question again more precisely because our secretariat is not omnipotent? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u168	Mr Barovic mentioned that this article is legally unclear, so we ask the secretariat to explain this to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I'm not going to continue the replicas, but listen. See, Article 14 of the proposal, which we are considering, states that "in these municipalities certain municipalities are obliged to ensure the right of Roma communities to one representative in the municipal council". Firstly, I have said that I object because the remaining Slovenians are not in an equal position in elections to the municipal councils. Secondly, I said that Article 65 says that these rights are governed by law, but the law or constitution is above the law. 43. Article 43 of the Constitution makes it clear to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that they have the right to vote and be loved. But I don't know if you understand - I was on the Internal Policy Committee - what does Article 14 mean. Article 14 as far as we have spoken on the Committee on Internal Policy and I have received an explanation, means that one city is provided to Roma in these municipalities. What if the electorate decides otherwise? Regardless of whether voters in these municipalities make a different decision - they can have three seats because of me - but if voters make a different decision, they still have to be assured, even though all voters are against the Roma. Like, that's why I'm asking about this article, that's why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The question was addressed to Mrs Bitenchev.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u172	If I have the floor, Mr Vice-President, the Secretariat has really pointed out only the fact that the method of enforcement of the Constitutional Court's decision by listing municipalities is in some way, given what was expected, halfway or too binding. The Constitutional Court has said and stated that the legislator must specify the criteria on which the municipalities can determine whether the Roma community lives autonomously in their territory. It will also have to assess whether other criteria, such as an organised number of members, should be prescribed for the exercise of the specific right of the Roma community to representatives in the municipal council. Above all, he will have to set a time limit within which the congregations will be obliged to fulfil their obligation. In fact, the Secretariat merely warned, did not go to the point where it was a legally unclear provision. In fact, it would be a very clear provision, but at the final stage it is questionable whether this provision, in fact, in relation to the legal system in force and the decision of the Constitutional Court, adequately lays down the criteria because it has already implemented them. That was actually our conclusion. She did not leave it to the congregations, but in fact she had somehow incorporated their decision into the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. These amendments open up a broader dilemma. A few months ago, I asked the government how is the special law on the Roma required by the Constitution. At the time the Slovenian Constitution was adopted, there was also a debate on this in the Constitutional Commission. It has been said, let us write in such a way that we will settle this issue with a special law. Even after eleven years, we have not been able to see this marriage. Answers to my question: The government replied roughly as they answered in the Italian Parliament at the request of the Slovenian minority under a special protection law. In the Italian Parliament, some have long responded if you do not need a special protection law because it is regulated by different laws. The government also answered my question if we do not need a special law on the status of Roma, because this is regulated in different laws. One of these laws, which is supposed to regulate electoral rights for local communities, is before us. However, the government offers, in my view, a completely unacceptable solution. In an article that defines this right, it simply lists a number of municipalities where, according to some, I do not know what kind of data, there were so many members of the Roma community that they already met a criterion according to the representative of the municipal councils. First of all, there are municipalities that have substantially more members of the Roma community than some of the congregations listed and vice versa. I would really ask the government representatives to either propose or propose criteria for third reading on the basis of which such a representation will take place. I warn you, however, that we are having a great illusion if we think that this issue will be resolved. Maybe it'll be a small step towards something. Otherwise, until the Roma issue is left to only 15 municipalities in Slovenia, their budgets, councillors' decisions on these budgets, then this issue - without being solved, we will not begin to solve it. And the government has a lot of responsibility here because in ten years it has not been able to propose a law that would allow a systematic solution to this issue, but in all this time it has been pressed on the shoulders of local communities that do not have the resources, and sometimes not some other necessary conditions. Once again, I appeal, irrespective of the answer I have received to my question, that the Ministry should submit itself to this work and that a law should be drawn up where these things will take place in real terms. As long as we're just trying to solve this in the way of some political representation and so on, we're just going to throw sand in our eyes and nothing will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. On this issue, I think it is important to draw attention to the dimension of the Council of Europe. At the last two meetings, the situation of the Roma community has always been one of these. One right in Central Europe. It's a shame that my colleague Majnik's amendment was withdrawn. Because maybe she's alone - because her amendment could be an opportunity to get rid of something. It's too bad you took him away. In your conclusion, you mention the 1993 Council of Europe. I would like to ask or propose that, until the third reading, we obtain the most up-to-date decisions of the Council of Europe. And they may be able to help us solve this issue. I would suggest only colleagues and colleagues - we are on the issue of resolving the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia - that we are correct and that we follow the fact that the population practices of Roma communities in Slovenia are very different. So, the habit of habitation is very different. And just the solution, as proposed to give only the name of the congregations, seems to me to produce many conflicts that are unnecessary. I would suggest first that we find the majority to support the amendment that we have proposed as a parliamentary group, which is the amendment under point 5. It is true that the state - because it is regulating the Roma problem is a state jurisdiction. This is also a constitutional provision. But the fact is that we should have a mechanism to have, in those municipalities where Roma community members live in different ways, in order to get some minimal supplement to address this problem under the current concept of community funding. This would be the first level, I am sure, to blow up some very delicate matters concerning the municipal council, members of the Roma communities, the mayor and so on. That's the first suggestion. The second proposal is the absence of criteria. That's what my colleague Janš was talking about. If there is no criterion, then this law will unnecessarily establish a conflict situation. And colleague Majnikov at least suggested a dialogue, a discussion on the proposal of the social organisation of the Roma. I don't know if that's the best solution. At least there's a solution. But it is true that we still have a third reading. I will engage myself to prepare by tomorrow all decisions of the Council of Europe or recommendations if they can help us resolve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you. There is a resolution on the Roma. Please, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u178	The analysis of all the amendments tabled could, in fact, also give me a summary of what has been said in this article, which actually scares me a little. Mr Jelinčič's first appearance was under the pretext that the article was unconsistent or that the government's proposed solution was unconsistent, with an excuse to exclude - in fact, very open and rather vulgar and drasticly expressed excuses - the rights of Roma to decide. Mr Janša's second comment, if we do not have a law on the Roma, has in fact provided an alibi for one particular municipality to be excluded from this context, because it is true that the laws we have, in many respects, separately for their areas, solve certain problems and establish equality of the Roma. The third solution that Mr. Podobnik appealed to brings another solution, which means: okay, where Roma are mostly in those municipalities where Roma mainly reside, these municipalities should receive additional money. I am talking about the three manipulations that I am reading within the amendments that are submitted to Article 14 which I do not like.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u180	Well, it is possible that Mrs Shirci does not like what is proposed, but I ask her kindly to go to one Roma village, to one municipality, and she will see how this situation is governed by the provisions of the other laws that exist, as you say. Nothing's going on. Very little. Usually, something is arranged, and then it collapses, or next year it gets worse and worse. Now such a system of things as it is now, is weak or is not at all at all, and I repeat again: only sand in your eyes, if you think that what is being said in article 14 of the government proposal will help you. Only things are going to get complicated, so actually more effort is needed here and a system law is passed. This system law is not an excuse to regulate representation in local communities in this law on local self-government, but not in this way without any criteria. That's clear. I tabled this amendment because I come from the constituency, where the congregation listed is also, and everyone who lives there knows that there are congregations with or somewhere else, which have a significantly larger Roma community, are not listed. Go to our congregation council and explain that we have a government that regulates matters fairly on the basis of certain criteria. You'll never explain it. So let's not make things worse, and let's not stick our heads in the sand - yes, but let's find a solution. There is no obstacle to the fact that something is already being arranged and that some special law is being passed; although there will be a heated debate and so on, many things will have to be cleared up, but we will get somewhere. But with what's being proposed now, we're not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u181	Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u182	I agree with those who say that the problem is that there is no law, and I expect, of course, that the government will soon put it into procedure. Of course, we have an obligation, which is why we also have this law in the procedure, so that we can remedy the decision of the Constitutional Court. In fact, I wanted to replicate to Mr Podobnik what would be a better solution or how to bring the constitutional rights of the Roma closer to the obligations the National Assembly has under the Constitutional Court's decision. I think that this is just the case, and the simplest question is dealt with in the manner envisaged in Article 14 as well. We must ensure, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, that where the indigenous Roma community lives, we provide at least one representative to this community in the municipal council. How this will be carried out will be governed by the law on local elections, which is the next item, and there are already envisaged solutions - statutes, probably the interested community that will propose, but we will discuss this later. Why it is not right that only in the clear wish that the Roma want to participate in the regulation of local affairs, matters in the local community - simply because there could be a kind of ambiguity, including manipulation, including negotiation. In fact, the amendment, which was withdrawn, speaks of a matter being regulated on a proposal from a Roma social organisation. Society can be set up by three citizens. It is easy to guarantee or promise those organisations there that we will already arrange something, only that they will oppose participating with their representative in the local community, and of course everyone else would not be able to participate in this in any way. The interest of society and this country is and must be to attract Roma in local communities to solve their problems, integrate them into the community, and certainly there can be no danger that one Roma in any municipal world poses any danger. Of course, I agree with those of you who say: criteria. For the time being, I believe in the government, as explained in the explanatory note, that it has determined, on the basis of the information available, the municipalities or municipal councils in which these seats are to be provided. However, I absolutely support the proposals to continue to define things through the law. Even I suppose that it can happen in some municipalities that Roma representatives, whether it be a social organisation or a group, will not even appoint candidates for the municipal council. It's just gonna be some place empty. We have terrible differences in Slovenia as regards social position, social engagement, development and so forth in individual communities. From Desert to Frog probably a few light-years apart. Roma from this Zabek, who is far behind, where the most secluded Roma area is now the most moving, succeeded in the Constitutional Court in fact, because the municipality of Novo Mesto did not provide this representation to a relatively large group of Roma, not only the Frog Ruperčev or I do not know where they are inhabited. So, from an area where, in fact, this desire has never really been expressed, except for a particular group, a minority who wanted to get involved as quickly as possible in all social events and also participate in these things. So I regret whether the criteria are too weak or not. I would ask that the government try to further substantiate why these congregations were involved. That seems to make sense. But in a way we have to give an opportunity - Mr. Podobnik, not optionally if they want to. No! No! The decision is that there must be an opportunity. Or they'll take advantage of it, that's another thing. That's why I think it's necessary to support the government and that the amendment in this part was flawed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. This law and these municipalities, which are listed in this law, resolve both the constitutional obligation and the decision of the Constitutional Court, as well as the inclusion of Slovenia in the European Community. It surprises me, however, to see the committee’s position when I read these amendments, that it does not essentially support the right to some additional funds that these congregations would have received to solve such a problem. Although I am not a member of this committee myself, I have not followed all these discussions, but only for reflection. The living habits of Roma are different from those of other people in the municipality. This difference usually manifests itself even in the fact that even individual families in a Roma settlement do not want to live in the immediate vicinity of each other, but find a new location and actually create their own: either family and those with whom they could live together or want to live together are united there. In short, it's a large number of locations. All these locations are usually on a state land that the congregation can only buy from the country. He doesn't get it for free. However, the state is fully withdrawing when it translates this problem of the Roma into local communities. That's the first thing I think is extremely unfair. The other thing is. For all these settlements, of course, water, electricity, sewerage must be brought in and, of course, appropriate spatial acts must also be carried out, in which we will determine that a building is even possible there. It will be necessary to pay for the change in the destination of agricultural land, and all the prices needed to buy from the country will have to be made, at what cost you will actually buy this land. In short, the extremely expensive procedures imposed on the congregations. Of course, when you may even have a location assigned to you, you need to approach it with communal equipment. A representative who is in the municipal council may be decisive. A decisive voice for something to happen or not to happen in the congregation. There has always been one voice, and many times in Parliament he has already made many decisions, and the same can happen in the municipal world. So I do not agree that every individual who comes into the congregation does not have the opportunity to influence how life in a congregation is to be organized. So the moment that the representative of the Roma community is in the municipal world, he will certainly try to achieve the goal that actually brought him into the municipal world. Commitments will certainly be made. If we impose additional obligations on the congregations and it is likely and logical to allow these obligations to be fulfilled. However, if this is the only problem that we place on the mayor or on the municipal council to be excruciating, I will say, coordinate or agree on these obligations, but the solution cannot, in fact, be accepted adequately, because the funds we have in the congregation or in the field of education, or in the field of child care, kindergartens, health care, short-term municipal land management for other individual builders; of course, it is extremely difficult to allocate resources for an additional obligation that will certainly arise. That's why I'm saying it again. I am surprised by the view of the committee that it did not support the possibility of these congregations being able to carry out this legal task, not only legally but also constitutionally. Of course, I also suggest that, then, if we are already deciding on these amendments, consider once again whether it really makes sense for these municipalities to fully assume additional obligations without additional financial resources. That's what I think is wrong. But I'd like to ask you one more question. What if there is a Roma family in Ljubljana? It's not written in this law. What if he appears in another congregation that is not recorded in this law? And that's the one, I'd say, a comparison. And to think about all those who might be thinking about it over and over again, "That's not my problem, they'll solve it." That's not true! This problem will also need to be solved so that the Roma community can also appear in a congregation that is not mentioned in this law. I am sure that even today it is and that Ljubljana is not without the Roma. I'm sure they're here, too. That's how a whole series of questions really open up here. Once again, it is not right to solve the problem in these municipalities and thus prevent them from actually solving the problem without adequate financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you. And Mr. Barovich. Then we have some more replicas, Mr. Juban, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Maybe someone else will come. I'm going to try to be clear, short and sharp. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Sometimes it's good to be a little polite and pretend, but that's enough once in a while. Today I have heard: adaptation - although it confirms a lot of what Mr Weber has said. We are adapting to the European Union - gentlemen, when I came to a few kinds of meetings when gentlemen looked me in the eye and said, you know what - when I said, Slovenia must sometimes stand up and say that we are in favour, but we demand the same rights - they told me: if you want to go to a club, you have to get used to and adopt the rules of the game. The Roma community, as Mr Weber said, will once again be obliged to adopt the rules of the game, to fulfil all the conditions for them to become citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and under Article 43 of the Constitution they will all have the same right to vote and be loved. So that you don't convert my words, Mr. Weber is right. Because of me, he may also be a representative of the Roma community in the congregation council of the congregation of Trbovlje, but this article does not give him this; it gives him Article 43 of the Constitution. And that you will not say that in the Slovenian National Party we are only running - that we do not know how phobic we have been all along - I will propose another proposal. If the government insists on this 14th Article, why not leave it or why we do not agree, then all municipalities, all 192 in Slovenia, should decide for themselves if they wish to be listed in this 14th Article. Not that anyone mentions them, as Janš's colleague said, but in a municipality that is not mentioned at all, or anyone else, because it does not matter, or even in Ljubljana, but it is not in this article. So this is a concrete suggestion: if you insist on Article 14, let the congregations decide for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are talking about Article 14, where it is precisely indicated in which municipalities should be provided by one representative of the Roma community. And it is only a question of whether it is all that is necessary, whether it can be more or less. I am also among those who regret that colleague Majnikov withdrew an amendment that might help to complement these concerns, whether it is all or more or less. Madam Secretary of State - I have not dealt with this before - she said that, on the basis of a permanent settlement, this criterion is what is mentioned here. Is that right, or is that enough, or could it be resolved differently? I am not thinking by myself that the Roma do not have a representative in these congregations, but would it suggest that we also consider something proposed by colleague Majnik. The reason is this. I think we have the highest number of these congregations in Prekmurje, that he is also the president of the relationship with us. And this is a guide for my notions quite moderate, acceptable, objective, by which we could further complement, whether it is this or it could be different, or it could change. Some flexible criterion that would also solve what it is, I think, my colleague Weber told me what would happen if suddenly a municipality had a larger number of Roma, then what would happen in those cases in the next elections. It means that the solution would not be closed to the place, to see if it could be different, and that it is then an objective criterion for these elections and perhaps for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-28-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you very much. It's 18 o'clock. We're not done, we're not finished, we're not closing the debate, we're breaking it up. We'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m.
