ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u1	To all those who are in the hall, I smell a beautiful and successful day, including those who will join us during today's session. I am initiating the 19th meeting of the National Assembly and first informing you of which colleagues and colleagues will not discuss and decide today because of other obligations with us. These are colleagues of Lavrič, colleagues of Dr. Brace, onion, Celigoj, Jakič, Kacin, Kangler. From 1 p.m. onwards, Kopushar's colleague will not be a colleague of Kelemina, from 3 p.m. on. Otherwise, colleagues Lenko, Pece, colleague Pozsonec, colleague Sok, Sušnik, Tanko and colleague Zalokareva will be missing. We're at 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER REFERENCES TO THE PROPOSAL OF THE ENERGY AND DEVELOPMENT LEGISLATION. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I invite the Minister of Economy or the Minister of Education? Both. You both want a word with the secretary? [[Yeah.]] They'll share the time. They've got five minutes available, both of them at the same time. First, I invite the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Lucia Chok. Please step on the speaker stage. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u2	Good morning, everyone. Today we have a law on research activities ahead of us. It is our pleasure to see this law proceed in a normal manner. This is a system law that will regulate fundamental relations in the field of science, research and technological development. With the new law, the Ministry of Science, together with the Ministry of Economy, wants to contribute to making research and development key factors in Slovenia's economic and social development. The result of a successful research and development and innovation policy must also be demonstrated within a few years in gross added value to the employee. Participation in the drafting of the law was quite extensive, from universities, JROs, public research institutions, chambers of commerce and economic factors. It has also been accepted in the science and technology world, so it has sufficient comprehensive support in preparation. The global objective of the law coincides with the paradigm of Slovenia's economic development strategy. However, it is an important objective within the law to maintain research development activities. It is characterised by the fact that it requires a high degree of autonomy mainly in the field of basic research. At the same time, the State must provide all instruments to promote useful research and technological development. They set up a network of cores in the economy, institutions with public rights become equal partners, so the entire research potential of Slovenia is used. The law will also provide a legal basis for the establishment and functioning of agencies in the field of research and development. In particular, the Agency's scientific council is defined in both areas and all funding for research and development activities is transferred to an autonomous agency. The law will also allow for the award of concessions and the execution of public service, both in development and in research activities. It is estimated that by increasing the direction and promotion of private and state investment in research and development, the share of investment in research and technological development and innovative activity will increase. This is also the aim of the European Union, which wants to achieve by 2010 3% of the gross social product dedicated to science and development. However, I would like to give another minute or two to the Minister, who is actually a partner in proposing this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. First it was Dr. Chokov, now it's Dr. Petrinov, Minister of Economy, on the turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! As already mentioned by Minister Čokova, there is a fundamental reason for issuing a new law in that research and development policy and technological development become key factors in Slovenia's economic and social development. Slovenia is facing a double challenge to catch up with more developed economies and prepare for the future. The relatively unfavourable structure and underdeveloped capacity for innovation are the main reasons for lagging behind in competitiveness, which at the same time proves that Slovenia's biggest development challenge will be the creation of such a policy that will contribute to improving the potential of enterprises for growth. Further stages of the development of Slovenia must no longer be relevant to any employment, but in particular to employment in high value-added activities, which require more or more knowledge and continuous business adaptation to market conditions in technology changes. I'd especially like to point out three. For the first time, representatives of the economy, including those leading the investment in research and development, participated in the drafting of the proposal. Secondly, the law establishes a formal framework and necessary infrastructure for the urgent integration of the economy and the research spheres. This is necessary in order to maximise the use of scientific research and innovation in terms of new products and new products. Innovation is today the product and production process all the time, and the innovation process stimulates market opportunities that stimulate research. Thirdly, the law provides for an increase in resources aimed at enhancing the ability to manage technological progress as the main source of value added and national competitiveness, primarily aimed at co-financing in the early stages of the value chain, as this reduces investment risk in the development of new products and technologies in individual companies. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] If only I could say the final thought. Of course, I must point out that the financing of R & D activities from the state budget cannot in any way replace funding from its own resources of enterprises; it can only be complemented effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Tea Petrin. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. I ask the chairman of the committee, my colleague Rudolf Mojet, to present the report. Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u6	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on research and development activities will be replaced by the law on research activities, which was adopted in 1991, even before the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. These are the main reasons for the adoption of the new law. These are mainly due to the changes in the management situation and the challenges of global competition, as well as to the adaptation of the functioning of institutions in accordance with European Union law. The Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport held an in-depth debate on the proposal for a law and identified up to 35 amendments tabled. It also defined the amendments proposed by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Activities and the Union for Education, Education and Science and some of them, and proposed them as its own. On the basis of the debate, the Committee drafted nine amendments and incorporated them into the amended draft law. Most amendments were adopted on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, but some were also editorial. In the supplementary draft law, more detailed provisions are made on independent professional bodies to deal with professional issues from the administrative areas of the Ministry of Science or the Ministry of Technology. The provision on standards, standards and criteria for setting funding for the national, research and development programme is also complemented and more appropriate in the proposed legislation. Thirdly, the conditions for obtaining the status of society in the public interest and the performance of the public service under the concession are further defined. With most of the amendments supported or adopted by the Committee, the drafter agreed. The Committee also voted on all the articles of the legislative proposal jointly and unanimously adopted them. Only three amendments to the amended draft law indicate that the work on the Committee has been well done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. We will now listen to presentations on the positions of the groups. First of all, my colleague has the word mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of ZLSD, 5 minutes behind her colleague Maria Pozsonec. Please, Comrade Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to present the opinion of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats on the system law governing fundamental relations in science and research activities. The main reasons for adopting the long-standing bill are seen in the Joint List Group in connection with the necessary new solutions in the changed economic and political situation in the new country and Slovenia's decision to join the European Union, thereby taking on the readiness and responsibility to adapt to the European legal order and thus open ourselves to the challenges of global competition. We must therefore promote all forms of education and knowledge transfer into practice, because it is only thus possible to ensure the strengthening of an innovative environment. If the fundamental development objective is to increase the welfare of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, which is growing from the balance of economic, social, cultural and environmental development, this can only be achieved in an accelerated transition to a knowledge-based society, and this is where development and research activities play a fundamental role. In establishing the law, it has been suggested that the experience of those countries which promote the best possible use of domestic research potential and the most effective way to bridge the gap between basic and usable research, as well as the decision on research priorities, since, given the Danish experience, it is essential for small countries to focus on a limited number of the most important research areas for them. And here I see one fundamental question that the Slovenian country will also have to answer with its programmes: What are they, or if at all, the most important research areas that it wants to develop as a priority? The proposed law also follows the recommendations of UNESCO to the transition countries to recognise an important national priority in the re-regulation of research and development activities, in order to ensure that Parliament and the economic part of civil society take an active role in the formulation of national scientific and technological policy and to draw up a long-term strategic regulation of the field. In particular, I see the first recommendation in this text in the introduction, where applicants foresee a planned increase of up to 3% of gross domestic product for development and research activities by the end of 2010, following also the conclusions of the Barcelona Summit, the ratio between public investment and private investment in development and research activities should gradually reach the ratio of one third of public funds to two thirds of private funds. The role of the National Assembly in the adoption of the national development and research programme, as provided for in the draft law, is particularly important in this regard. This clearly defines the relations between the National Assembly, as the most important decision-making body on national research and development activities, between the Government which prepares the programme proposal and is responsible for implementation, and the Council for Science and Technology of the Republic of Slovenia, which prepares the starting points and guidelines for the proposal of the national programme. Since the national programme will be the basis for determining the volume of State budget resources for the implementation of research and development activities, it is essential to identify strategic development areas and to apply national priorities. This makes the role of the National Assembly decisive. There is also a need to emphasise the important link between research work and the economy and, last but not least, increased autonomy in monitoring, both resource use and planning for development and research activities. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] For all this, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the bill. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Spending. Now I give my word to my colleague Pozsonczev, who I do not see in the hall. I therefore invite my colleague Puksic, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Social Democratic Party, we are aware of the necessity of adopting a new law governing research and development activities. At the same time, we note, of course, that in Slovenia, there are almost 7 times less resources allocated for scientific work than in the European Union, or even 15 times less resources than in the United States per capita. The law does not open up the possibility of interconnection between universities and the economy. It is normal in the world for researchers to later become employed in the economy or, of course, have this opportunity. All the additions to the education and education union that we supported on the labour market were substantive and did not interfere with the financial structure of the budget. It is intended only to enrich the proposed law with the basic motto of raising the quality of research work in public institutions and universities and also to indirectly influence the pooling of national capacities between these institutions. Unfortunately, none of the supplements have been accepted from us for incomprehensible reasons, but, of course, by voting on the position. Let me stress that concrete proposals on the control of civil society over the work of public institutions on competitive clauses and on appointments in the most important working bodies, and in particular on the specific requirements for qualifications of administrative institutions and agencies, must be presented by their organisations in Europe and across the meadow, and therefore the best scientists must be really selected in these places. And last but not least, this law does not open the possibility of returning experts from the world to their homeland, one of the major shortcomings. At the time of entry into the European Union, our experts could make the most of their knowledge, business connections, reputation and scientific work, and, of course, our experts, in order to increase their national income faster, and thus of course, of general well-being. They know the economic situation and legislation in foreign countries. The law will need to be completed as soon as possible and take into account the opinions of recognised experts, such as Dr. Edward Kobal or Dr. Vito Turk, so that we do not become guilty of any major or national catastrophe in the area of brain drain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Puksich. I now invite my colleague, Levič, to present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, after which he will be given the floor of his colleague Germić to present the views of the LDS Group of Members. Now my friend Levich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Young Slovenia Party, we view the proposal for a law on research activities as an indispensable system law, from which we expect it to properly regulate the situation in the field of science and research. Economic development is based on a quality research activity, in close cooperation with the economy, and therefore the conditions for this need to be systematically ensured. In the Young Slovenia Party, we always stress the need to ensure greater and more sustainable investment in research development activities in Slovenia, as these are the basis for the economic and social development of Slovenia. We are pleased that the government has taken this challenge more seriously. If the Research and Development Act ensures that research and development policy and technological development become key factors in Slovenia's economic and social development, the results will be seen mainly in increasing gross added value. And that's the goal to follow. In order to effectively ensure that the law, according to the applicant, strengthens the ability to manage global knowledge and technological progress as the main source of increasing national competitiveness and increasing individual and social quality of life, we will support the proposal for legislation in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Levich. Please, Comrade Germich. You will present the position of the LDS Group of Members. I'll put my word behind you to my colleague Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Madam Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on research and development activities for several reasons. Let me mention two of them in particular. The first is that the law in force in 1991 does not respond to the development challenges arising from the changed political, economic and social relations, and secondly because it lays new formal and legal bases for the operation of science and development as key factors in the economic and social development of the Republic of Slovenia and complements already a very large number of laws, national strategies and other strategic development documents that strengthen the mechanisms for the transition of Slovenia to a knowledge-based society and follow the orientations of the European Union's research and development policy. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the law because the global objective of the law coincides with the development paradigm of the Slovenian Economic Development Strategy, which underlines the importance of strengthening the ability to manage global knowledge and technological progress as a global source of increasing national competitiveness and increasing individual and social quality of life. The most important acquisition of this law is the clear definition and division of powers between the legislative, executive and agency authorities. The content of the research work will be defined in the national research and development programme to be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the baselines and orientations of the Science and Technology Council and adopted by the National Assembly. The composition of the science and technology council, where science will not prevail over the economy, ensures that research and development priorities can be identified in the national and development programmes, thereby ensuring increased knowledge transfer in the economy. We are convinced in the LDS that without the consensus of certain priorities, which will also be confirmed by the National Assembly, Slovenian science could not play its part in Slovenia's economic and social development. Another important step is to maintain science. The new law stipulates that the financing of science and technology will no longer be carried out through ministries, but through two agencies, science agencies and technology agencies. However, the executive branch will only monitor the functioning of the agencies. Only in this way will it be possible to achieve independent prioritisation, investment in research activities on the basis of such defined priorities and control over the achievement of the objectives set. This system, which has already been implemented in countries such as Ireland and Finland, can be successful in our own. In the LDS, we will support the amendments adopted by the mother's working body, which are the result of legal and formal corrections and do not interfere with the essence of the law. We will also support the amendments adopted by the Committee on the proposal of the four parliamentary groups which affect the very content of the law. In doing so, I would like to point out Article 11, Article 18, Article 22, and Article 22a and Article 22b and Article 36 of the Act. The amendments adopted do not change the main purpose of the law. By law and the new national research and development programme, science will thus be able to achieve the objectives expected by Slovenian society in order to make the achievements of scientific and development activities through knowledge transfer the most important development factors of social and economic progress, to increase the transfer and use of knowledge for economic, social, cultural and environmental protection, i.e. the sustainable development of Slovenia. Covering the basic scientific disciplines needed for quality higher education and postgraduate education, effective transfer of knowledge from abroad, cultural, social and material development and acquisition of the necessary modern research and cognitive methods, development of a strong, scientifically qualified and internationally comparable core of researchers to work in science and economy. Of course, in order to achieve the objectives set, it will be necessary to adopt a national research and development programme with clearly defined priorities as soon as possible in the National Assembly and to ensure the expected growth dynamics of the state and, in particular, private investment in research and technological development and an innovative activity up to a total of 3% of gross domestic product by 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Comrade Germich. Comrade Companion, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In recent years, several ministers have tried to amend and supplement or adopt a new roof law covering research and development activities. It worked for Dr. Chok, her team and the current coalition, and it wasn't easy. In preparing for this law, we have looked into a coalition treaty where the coalition has made it very clear that it is aware of the strategic importance of science and that the partners will advocate an increase in the share of resources for science, both from the state budget and from non-budgetary sources, unfortunately we are not the most successful. We also said that the increase in resources for science should be accompanied by the development of a modern system of science financing - and we hope that the law is trying to enforce it - resulting from the quality of research work. Regarding the quality of the research work writes today in one of the Slovenian journals on the other, this is Dnevnik, the following: Even the Nobel Prize would be hard to get at the university, subtitle; Students who doctorate abroad would come back, but we find it difficult to find a job. The director of the Jožef Štefan Institute says with his own intuition or with a sense of humor: Only who would choose to work scientificly in as bad a situation as we have in Slovenia. I'm afraid only the one who falls in love with us. So either fall in love with Slovenka or fall in love with Slovenia. In any case, this should be primarily an incentive to make the marriage we adopt a truly good marriage. The legislature has prepared its views on this law for more than two-thirds of the articles. This means that the marriage at first reading or when it was written was not well prepared. Today, however, we have a complementary proposal for a law, with more than 30 amendments, and in some solutions, of course, we have thoroughly changed the law. And this is where the board did a very important job. In the first articles, which speak of purpose, objectives, principles, it will comment on the rule of law that these are, in particular, declarations of guidance, which do not normally fall within the law, but are part of the introduction to the law. There are sentences that are basically declarations, and they belong somewhere else, not to the law itself. But if we wrote them down, they should be inside. We would like to stress explicitly the principles of this law, which is rarely written down. It says this: Research and development activities are based on the principles of ethics and responsibility for achieving the objectives set out in the national, research and development programme. We would therefore stress and support one principle that research and development activities are based on ethical principles. 7 years ago, in 1995, the National Development Programme was adopted by the National Assembly. I remember the debate at the time, which was very positive. A lot of nice words were said. However, we would like to point out that it would be good to make sure that before we go - and, of course, a new research development programme is already under way - that we will make a qualitative assessment of what we have done in the national and research programme adopted by Parliament, which we have not. I have before me a very well-founded and in-depth opinion signed on behalf of the Council of State and the Commission for Social Activities by Prof. Dr. Franc Vodopian. In this opinion, it argues that the then national research programme provided for more resources from the budget to be devoted to research linking industry and the academic sphere in joint projects. Since this is, as in all European countries, a path that contributes significantly to the faster growth of the country's competitiveness. In our parliamentary group, we believe that in terms of purpose, the law will stand or fall if it does not allow the academic sphere and industry to become more connected. Slovenia needs this, and the Slovenian economy expects such legal solutions, which will only encourage this. And then, of course, immediately follows a warning or finding that the status of technical sciences within Slovenian science and in the Slovenian national research sphere is also undernourished. Of course, the rainbow always works and they're always sobbing on both sides, but [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] The fact is that technical sciences in Slovenia do not have the status they deserve. [[...]] He thinks something about the amendment later.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik, for presenting the views of the SLS Group. Colleague Marija Ana Tisovic will present the views of the Novi Slovenije Group and will conclude with his colleague Jelinčič. Will you, Comrade Barovich? [[Okay.]] My colleague Ana Maria Tisovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on research and development activities finally came into the legislative process. The 1991 law in force is urgently needed for amendments and additions. Political and economic relations have changed over the years since the adoption of the law, which have also affected research and development activities. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that in a time of globalisation it is necessary to increase Slovenian competitiveness, strengthen entrepreneurship, create an appropriate climate for innovation, as a condition of excellence and competence of economic operators is essential for international competitiveness. The transfer of knowledge from universities, higher education institutions and research institutions to the economy, according to Members of the New Slovenia, is crucial. There must also be cooperation between the public and private sectors. The most important thing is to enable greater and more sustainable investment in research and development projects, which are most important for the future of Slovenia. Of course, we must also mention research institutes whose research is also necessary for the development of Slovenia. Looking at the annual budget memorandum, we can see a trend in the reduction of resources for research and development activities. In the New Slovenia Group, we are really worried about where this trend is taking us. The new law provides a legal basis for the establishment of an agency. In particular, the Agency's Scientific Council in the field of research activities and the Technical Council of the Agency for Technological Development are designated. Research and development activities shall be transferred to these independent agencies. The science and technology council, which will form the consultative body of the government and propose a policy for the implementation of the programme and will also have control over it, will play an important role in the design of the national programme and the resulting funding. The law also provides for the establishment of an expert group on decision-making in the implementation of research and development policy. It follows from this that the law establishes a number of bodies, the world as a consultative body of the government, the expert group to help the world, the agency and within it two other worlds. The law further provides that research and development activities as a public service shall be carried out in public research institutions, then universities and independent higher education institutions, and on the basis of concessions to legal persons of private and public law. The concessionaire for carrying out research activities shall be selected by the agencies and awarded the concession by the Minister responsible for science. In addition to research, development activities may be carried out by legal persons who have a public mandate granted by the Minister responsible for Science, or by a Minister responsible for Technology. In the New Slovenia Group, we have decided to support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you, colleague Ana Maria Tisovic. I invite my colleague Barovic to finally present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group. This will close the presentation and move on to the debate on the articles. Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, good afternoon! Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Ignorance is a nation's grave, valid and in the Slovenian National Party we are absolutely the first to want and want a wide-ranging research and development activity. It's already an organism that's born, grown and matured. And, of course, it needs a lot of influence from all sides. As far as the law is concerned, a national programme was adopted seven years ago. It took us seven years to get to this marriage. Secondly, when I read an assessment of the financial implications of the bill, the proposaler estimates that the proposed law will have minimum requirements for additional financial implications for the state budget. It is not good that it has minimum requirements for the financial budget. If, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the competent government ministries, not only for education, but also for the financial and other bodies involved in this body, planned funds on time, would not need a minimum scale, but would have been available during these seven years when it was known that this law was being prepared, sufficient resources would have been available. This is the first mistake we have to point to. Let me point out that, just moments ago, we have found that this country, because it is linked to research and development activities, intensively since 1994 entering the European Union, has a detailed plan on the financial plan and has written for the European Union items 0 in the 2003 budget. We have found that there will be such a severe rebalancing and so severe an intervention that it will be a re-research and development activity with the necessary resources. Thirdly, in addition to money, education is, of course, necessary. Denmark, which has 5 million inhabitants, two and a half times as many as we do, has – do not hold me to the word – about 20 universities. We have two. We've been fighting for three for two or three years. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Political flossules have been popular in the past. Today you just have to tell the truth. We will be very pleased to support this law in the Slovenian National Party. But what helps us if, in a year or two, in adopting the budget, this law and the national programme, which is seven years old, remains completely dead in huge demands for rebalancing and additional resources. Let us establish a third, fourth, fifth university, give sufficient resources for research and development activities, because this is the only progress for this country, the Republic of Slovenia. The European Union, as well as it looks, is also a cruel, knowledge market on its market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you too, Comrade Barovic, for your warnings and highlights. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will be leading on the basis of the review of the amendments of 21 October this year. Let me remind you that this is how the parliamentary groups reserved time for the debate on articles and amendments: socialdemocrati 10 minutes, combined list 5 minutes, SLS 10 minutes, Slovenian national party 10 minutes and government, finally, 5 minutes. I'm going to put Article 11 into the debate first, and please? [[...]] Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u22	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd just ask based on yesterday's experience. We also have on our hands the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the amendment to the updated proposal for a law on research activities. Are we talking about this now, when we discuss it, or are we not?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u23	A hypnotist for counseling. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these amendments should be tabled by the Government by yesterday. They didn't do it, they did it today, which means they missed their deadline. That way he can't be discussed, he's irrelevant. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the Group of Members with my first signed colleague, Germić, and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, President. I myself followed the amendment adopted yesterday by the government at the correspondence session. Did he come to the National Assembly today? He came in today. Then this is awkwardness, but it's Article 29, I'd like to talk about Article 11. Article 11 speaks of professional bodies. First of all, I would like to say that I will support the first amendment proposed by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Germić, who says that in order to take decisions in the implementation of research and development policy, expert groups and individual experts are appointed as independent professional bodies. However, I would like to briefly base the amendment tabled in the Group of Members. Yesterday I read a transcript of the Committee's debate and there was a lot of talk about the subject of our amendment - there is no trace of this debate in the minutes of the Committee. We therefore propose to add in Article 11 a new fourth paragraph, which reads: "In the sub-laws referred to in the first sentence of the previous paragraph of the Minister, it is expressly laid down that, when members of the professional bodies decide on a project in which the institutions or employees are involved, the first option, secondly when deciding on the fields of law and professions to which they belong, is to make a third choice when deciding on the projects of the institution in which they are employed to comply with a competitive clause" In the parliamentary group, I also personally believe that he will gain the law in a transparent manner and in some way that he will also follow the provision that I read earlier when all those who operate and decide in this sphere are also taking into account the principle of ethics. We know that the number of top scientific experts in a given field is in line with the biological heritage of the two million people and the country. But you will have to admit, those who are even more familiar with this area, that it is a bit unhygienic, of course if you decide, do not give an opinion, decide on the project you are carrying, or a member. And that's what's happening. First you report the project for hundreds of millions, then you decide about it. Or, on the other hand, that you are in a situation, you are not guilty of making any important decisions that concern your conduct and profession, and you can be the bearer of your behavior and profession, or one of the bearers. And it's even more unusual when you decide on a project of the institution you belong to. You're her CEO, executive director, or a member of this institution. That is why we are proposing and expecting support, and this will be a new practice for which it would be good to come to another sphere, because money is being decided. There are only a fifth of us sitting here, and it will be necessary for colleagues again tonight, when the other 60 Members come to the meeting, to tell us what is the essential content of this amendment. Therefore, it is a sub-legislative act with which the competent minister, in our case, is expressly determined by the ministers, in which cases it is necessary to comply with a competitive clause. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you, Comrade Podobnik. Anyone else want a word? Please, Comrade Jerovšek. We're at the 11th.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I would support this article. It seems to me extremely important that when deciding on the allocation of research tasks, it is true that individuals who have the option of influencing the choice are involved in this matter in some way in order to effectively exclude themselves. This is a fundamental principle also in the judiciary and everywhere and must be respected. I would only ask the Slovenian People's Party why they did not also mention related relations that are even more necessary exclusions. Indeed, we know that in these research circles, an ordinary person would expect high professional and ethical principles to prevail. At the same time, others, who at times were also involved in what research projects and were fighting for research money, know how narrow circles decide in this area. Let's say that someone who reported a research project years ago from the industrial sphere had no opportunity, even though he had the status of a researcher, that he didn't include an important researcher in the project, sometimes under the adage, which had good relations with research policy. We did this tactfully and, of course, the research money was then shared. Without that, however, it was not possible to succeed in the tenders. I hope the situation is better today. I hope the situation is better, but in fact these competitive clauses, which must be so wide that these things are automatically excluded. And among researchers too, and this is the Ministry of Education, science is responsible for delegating and committing researchers, subject to the conditions, to decide whether they are themselves or their institutions, to effectively exclude themselves from decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Comrade Podobnik, have you asked for a replica or a discussion? Please. Yeah, anyone else want a word? No, then I'll give you a replica or a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u28	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u29	It's a debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u30	I would like to re-substantiate the amendment in the debate. I would also like to hear the position of the government and the ministers. We are prepared in the framework of the Rules of Procedure to perhaps correct some provision. But in the debate, I would like to make it clear that this amendment does not mean the sowing of mistrust in all those who operate on these premises. You just have to regulate the legislation that then applies, and all those who are obliged to do so are governed by law. Hence, we did not think in any way of referring to kinship. We are confident, and this is also true of the unwritten ethical principle that people are then excommunicating themselves. This must become a political climate in the country. It must apply that if a person decides on a project whose owner is his son or daughter and decides to do so, he is automatically excluded from the Greme to which he belongs. If he didn't have enough culture to automatically eliminate himself. These are things that aren't written about, but that's how it's done. We want to do so, and we hope that others will do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u31	Anyone else want a word? We are in the debate on Article 11 and the amendments. [[Nobody.]] Then I conclude the debate and we are moving on to a debate about I did not see you. [[...]] Yeah, sure, if you want. Sure, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u32	Of course, we understand the intention of the proposer and also partly this purpose is regulated in Article 11, paragraph 3, if I understand that it is not complete. There are two things in this amendment that are disturbing. First of all, it's a definition. What is a competitive clause, we know, and it's not exactly that. This is a matter of excluding an individual member from the proceedings. It's about this dictatorship. It is said that the dictatorship must be changed. Secondly, it may be possible in paragraph 3 that what you mentioned at the end of the discussion is, of course, a decision by ministers or ministers on the conflict of interest. This, of course, we accept, would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Then we will conclude the debate on Article 11 and come to Article 29. Here we have the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. I said earlier that the amendment to the amendment tabled by the government had been tabled too late. He was enrolled in the National Assembly at ten o'clock and nine o'clock. I suggest that we are not so hairy, although, as we can see from the National Assembly, the Presidency is holding very tightly for hours and we are starting exactly at the minute. However, I propose that this amendment be put to the debate and that the National Assembly decide on it, but this should be a warning to the government that the National Assembly begins precisely and that the Government should therefore ensure that, in accordance with the rules of procedure, amendments or other proposals are made by the time. Okay. Then I will also put an amendment to the SDS amendment into the debate. Anybody want a word on this? We're at the 29th. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you, President. I support the amendment to the government's amendment, and of course I'm just asking both ministers whether that means when we open the amendment to the government's amendment, we'll then vote on the amendment of the parliamentary group. This means that the government also supports the amendment of the Socialist Group of Members. I hope this is clear to the government when it proposes such a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u35	Please, anyone else want a word? Minister Chokov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u36	That's all I'd explain. In part, we support this amendment, the last paragraph being somewhat adjusted - it is not a Saturday year of training of researchers, it is a matter of involving researchers in the educational process, it is said, an exchange between the academic research sphere.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u37	Good. Anyone else want to discuss Article 29? Let me correct myself, it was for minutes, not seconds, so it was sent to the National Assembly at 10.09 a.m.; we are not so hairy until a second, but the minutes are already important - since the National Assembly is starting exactly, the government must also start precisely. Okay. We have thus exhausted the discussion on the articles and amendments that have been prepared for this article. Thus, we can now conclude the debate on the proposal for a law on research and development activities. We interrupt the work of the National Assembly by 11.30 a.m. as we proceed with the proposal for a law on fundamental development programmes in the field of education and science. And this and other points of today's day will be decided at 7:20 p.m. tonight. Until then, I'm adjourning the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u38	Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister and Secretary of State! We're continuing our session. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is another defensively proposed law on fundamental development programmes in the field of education and science. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. You want the Minister's word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u39	In fact, very briefly. First of all, I would like to say that we are extremely pleased that we have brought this law so far, especially because it will solve a number of difficulties in education and science, from adult education and education reform, structure, real investment in secondary education, especially in higher education, restructuring the funding that the university has long been awaiting and thus also provides financial autonomy for the university and, of course, social corrections in nutrition, transport. Of course, we have not forgotten about higher education centres in this law, that is to say the decentralisation of higher education. In science, however, the long-awaited equipment in the institutes. We know what this equipment is like, and we also open targeted research projects that will mainly bring added value, according to the strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia. Young researchers for the economy will also be financed by this law. The law sets the upper real limit laid down in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, which will also really enable the programmes to be implemented. Of course, the battle for this border will draw from the budget into the budget, but of course we are also in charge of our ministry. It is also good that the law also allows certain reallocations or reallocations to be carried out within a particular programme, but they do not cross between programmes, so they are guaranteed for certain reforms, improvements, implementation of legal bases, which have also been adopted in this national assembly. I thank you for the thorough and substantive treatment in the parent body. We have also made a number of additions or ideas. We thank Members for their commitment to the efforts, both the ministries and the countries that have set up such a programme and will also implement it by means of this law, which will provide the conditions for all that we have set ourselves in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a working body of the mother. The Chairman of the Committee will present the report of the Committee. Rudolf Mogue, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee has given due respect to the proposal for a law on basic development programmes in the field of education, science, vulga third school tolar. The law has only five articles and the amendments have been tabled in the title and all four articles, and only an article which provides for the validity of this law remains unamended. At the hearing, we also considered the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on the financial implications of the law. This ensures that the amount in Article 1 and this amount is 167.722.653.000,00, the State will be able to provide in the budget for the implementation of this law. The discussion later referred mainly to Article 1 and the tables to this Article. There were many proposals for the inclusion of new investments, such as the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor in the building, schools in demography-prone areas, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Computer Science and Information, including Maribor, high school in Slovenia Konjice, Idrija, Ptuj and Ljutomer, high school and school and educational activities in Ribnica, and the secondary school in Vrhnika. A dilemma has also been presented as to whether the allocation of funds between programmes is appropriate, whether we invest more in programmes and less in space or vice versa. However, there has been a need to ensure that, due to the neglected state of investment in education in the past decades, this relationship, which is now in law, is appropriate. Then the Rector of the University of Ljubljana also found that the law was not in favour of higher education - I do not know why not - and that it could only be implemented up to 60%. It is also worth mentioning that we have very much corrected section 3 of the law, which somehow reduces this pressure on the table. This suggests that in the changes within the development programme of investments in education and science, in that table, the amount of the necessary resources contained in this development programme is decided by the Ministry, while changes within the development programme are decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which means that projects that have been designed for implementation in a specific year can move forward and backward and the level of resources for a particular project can change. Then there is an extremely important fourth article, which, according to other tolars, somehow exempts this tolar. Article 4 also shows the interest of local communities and economies in the accelerated investment activity in the area of the construction of school facilities. In this article, it says that projects in which the local community from its own resources will participate in investment in the provision of municipally equipped land and the economy will be subject to non-refundable investment, with grants, the value of land and associated municipal equipment at least 15% of the value of the total investment. Therefore, this Article stands out in the light of similar tolars. I think that what we have put into law in Article 4 will contribute to the additional resources that are here in the table, it is said that more could then be done on this basis than the planned projects in the table of "investment in education and science". And that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you for the report. A discussion or presentation of the views of the groups of Members is under way. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Majda Potter for the views of the united list.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of the Joint List of Social Democrats will support the complementary draft law on basic development programmes in the field of education and science, as adopted by its mother's working body, after taking into account the comments of the legislative and legal service and taking note of the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which has supported the proposal of the law, at the same time finding that no funds have been provided in the already adopted budget for 2002 and 2003. The introductory Minister also explained that the global asset was fixed had an impact on the Committee's definition of the amendments tabled. An amendment has been tabled for the treatment of the parent working body, which proposed a modified dynamic in the financing of investment in higher and higher education, referring to the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Computer Science and Information Technology, but there are no amendments to the amended bill under this heading. However, we believe that the adoption of the law is a strategic objective, and this is a knowledge-based society, which is important, so we will support it with great expectation that the planned and implementation of the development programmes will require funding from 2003 to 2008. The law under consideration after good experience with the so-called School Tolar Act and the Law on the Rental of Loans under the Council of Europe for Social Development, which has achieved a number of important investments in Slovenian school space and equipment between 1996 and 2002, opens similar expectations related to the development programmes which, following this law, are the transfer of knowledge and development of the support environment in research and development activities, the education of adults, which in the light of the last report on the progress of Slovenia's accession to the European Union, is particularly important because we are aware of an alarmingly high percentage of unemployed adults. Therefore, the further development programme is information and communication literacy, the regional network of higher and higher schools and their linkage to the economy, the development of healthy nutrition and the investments in education and science, which also represent the largest part of the law in this proposal, by means of the funds submitted. An important role in the implementation of the law will also be the provision of a law referring to the priority treatment of those programmes in which the local community will participate from its own resources in investment by providing municipally equipped land and the economy with non-refundable investment, where the non-refundable financial investment, the value of the land or the associated municipal equipment must reach at least 15% of the value of the total investment. Since some of the forecasts on education developments suggest that the backlog of Slovenia's work, of course I think of the northeastern part of Slovenia, even in the future, will increase, the adoption of a law to ensure a more coherent and more balanced development of education and science is an important contribution. That is why the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the law, as has already been said in the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you. Comrade Franz Pukšič will give his position to the SDS. Please! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u45	Nice greetings, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr. Vice President! I will give my position to the Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. It is appropriate to include it in full. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State! The position of the Socialist Party's Group on Basic Development Programmes in Education and Science: The proposal for a law on basic development programmes in the field of education and science makes it possible to complete certain investments in education and science. In the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia we certainly support the importance of education and scientific activity in modern society, as the development of this activity is fundamental to the development and progress of society. We are convinced that the only wealth we come to the European Union is. Of course, progress can be made through appropriate monitoring infrastructure, programmes where the proposed law is also interfering. The law provides a minimum amount of funding for these activities, but we are of course convinced that these projects should be given more attention and other material conditions. The law has also been supported by the Committee on Finance from a budgetary point of view, and adequate resources will have to be provided in the budget each year. In the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, we favour and support activities that ensure the best conditions and development of education and research activities. We are also pleased that some of our proposals for projects, which we believe are justified and necessary, have been supported by the Committee, as they provide a new impetus for areas where new development of educational activities will be possible. We hope that in the coming years projects will also be included in the programme, which have not been supported for various reasons so far. We want the best possible realization of the law. However, I would like to draw attention to the problem that arises here and to this law, and this can also be clarified when this law is adopted. In view of the fact that municipalities that are legally able to finance the construction of a primary school space for the needs of a nine-year-old must wait for the decision of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education and Sport to be included in the priority investment programme, in accordance with the 1999 call, although the problem could be resolved in a timely manner. Of course, we would get money from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, so these municipalities would normally get money from a priority list. This is particularly important because some municipalities save a year or two or even more at the expense of investing in primary school space. And when they have certain resources, it would make sense for them to be allowed to invest with their funds, but they know when they will also get state funds. This means, not prejudging the state programme, it is clear, but allowing them to start an investment at least a year or two earlier and thus elevate what they have saved. During the debate on the working body, we also warned the Ministry whether funds were provided for the start of the work of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor in 2003 and 2004. It was ensured that these funds were provided for the programme and that there would still be a need to negotiate spatially. Well, and it seems important to me, as my colleague Moje has already said about Article 4, to say that when the economy invests in development, it would also be necessary to consider that these funds, which are, of course, irreparable, are also exempt from the duty. This means encouraging the economy in this way. This would be useful, and I hope that even on the third reading it can be complemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you. This was the position of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. The position of the Young Slovenia Party will be given by Peter Levič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we view the proposal for a law on basic development programmes in the field of education and science as an important and necessary improvement of the legal bases that require the necessary progress of education, among which will be the subject of the School Tolar Act, which has satisfactorily provided additional funding for development programmes in the area of construction and renewal of educational infrastructure, computerisation, provision of textbooks and snacks and the teaching of foreign languages in recent years. It is very important that the law provides support for R & D and technological development, which is an important foundation for the economic and social development of Slovenia, the result of which is in particular to increase national competitiveness and improve the quality of life. This is mainly due to active investment in the knowledge transfer and development programmes of the support environment in research and development activities, network research programmes to support the development of young researchers, adult education and other education programmes in Slovenia. Even after the adoption of this law, it must be borne in mind that, compared to the countries of the European Union and especially the USA and Japan, Slovenia is far behind the average gross social product that these countries are investing in research development. Therefore, in the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that this fact must be taken into account and, above all, in the preparation of the budget for the coming years and in these areas, to devote significantly more resources than the government currently has allocated. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you. I invite my colleague, Jožef Kavticnik, to present the position of the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u49	Mr President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on basic development programmes in the field of education and science is the continuation of school tolar or school tolar law. Among the priorities, in addition to building the necessary educational infrastructure, this included computer literacy, school nutrition subsidies and the establishment of a learning fund. The proposal for the Basic Development Programmes Act, however, adds time to the relevant new content to these school toll programmes. In this law, the drafter draws attention to important areas of education and science that have so far been somewhat neglected. The law defines the following six areas: transfer of knowledge and development of the support environment to research and development activities, adult education, information and communication literacy, regional network of higher and higher schools, development of healthy nutrition and investment in education, education and scientific activities. In the LDS Club, we are convinced that these areas are important for the further development of education and science in the Republic of Slovenia, so we will support the bill because we are aware that investing in education and science is an investment in human beings, which is the best investment for the future. We are convinced that this law concerns areas that we need to make financially noble because it is about education and science to raise quality. We are aware that knowledge is the quality with which we will be able to compete equally in all areas on the European and global stage. Investment in development and research is too low in our country, compared to the members of the European Union, as Slovenia is lagging behind the average of the European Union. Research and development must become one of the key factors of social and economic development in our country. It is also essential that we eliminate the educational failure of the working population and allow the unemployed to gain a higher level of formal education and thus give them an opportunity to work faster or self-employment. In order to be able to follow the rapid development of information technology in the world in the economy, we need to implement the design of schools with modern information and communication equipment in the field of education. The achievement of this objective is extended until 2008. The National Higher Education Programme already defines that we will increase the proportion of citizens and citizens with high vocational education. It is therefore necessary to establish an effective and quality network of higher and higher vocational education to achieve this objective, including regional criteria. So far, subsidies for school meals do not follow the needs of growing young people for healthy nutrition. It is therefore necessary to provide additional resources, as this will provide some young people with at least one quality energy meal a day. The School Tolar Act focused mainly on providing basic conditions for educational work. This law seeks to provide school space under the investment item for programmes that follow the development needs of the regions, improve standards in secondary, higher, higher education and universities. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are aware of the importance of education of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so we support the development of quality programmes in education and science. Members of the LDS will be supported by the Basic Development Programmes Act in the field of education and science.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you, colleague Kavticnik. I give the text to the Slovenian People's Party Group and to my colleague Janez Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. School tolar two has support in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. At the same meeting, i.e. the National Assembly, after the cultural tolar, we get two school tolars, which is said to be a rich meeting for Slovenian culture, education and science. This law could also represent a very concrete continuation of the previous item on the agenda. You know, we've been talking about roof law in the field of research activities, and at least a few areas are also in this law. If we did a survey between Slovenian economists and others dealing with public finances and finance in general, we would be very happy to have a solution to at least 10% of what the country receives from the purchase when it sells state property, and not only to mention the purchases from the New Ljubljana Bank, but also some other purchases that will come into the budget or into the state account in the years to come, so if at least 10% of this money were a so-called school toll, I am sure it would be a very good investment. The law is written on the principle of development programmes. Article 2, which sets out what development programmes are, and development programmes, of course, are also investments in education and science. The development programme also means that it will establish a regional network of higher and higher schools or financial and economic ties. Here, we would like to make it clear that we expect this law to be additional support to the efforts of the Government, the Minister and everyone to make the best of the quality life of the University of the Sea. The Saturday Annex of Work already contains a section on national interest in five of the following issues: Eminent Slovenian intellectuals are looking for an answer to what is of Slovenian national interest. Recently, when I read their views again, I was very surprised by one of them, who said, "Maybe one of the key Slovenian national interests is to get a third university in Slovenia as soon as possible, this coastal university." I think that's a good answer. Article 4 mentions the State, the local community and the economy for the accelerated investment activity in the area of the construction of school facilities and research infrastructure. We therefore support the entry into the law of "the economy as well". This is said to be in some sense also for the economy to co-invest in some of the projects referred to in the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you, too. The positions of Nova Slovenije will be presented by Ana Marija Tisovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Madam Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The draft law on basic development programmes in the field of education and science provides that by 2008, the Republic of Slovenia will have provided 167 billion 720 million SIT for development programmes in the field of education and science. These programmes will include the development of the support environment in research and development activities, adult education, information and communication literacy, the regional network of higher and higher schools, as well as funding for the systematisation of jobs, taking into account the number of students and graduates, the equipment of universities and technical colleges, and the coastal university, then the development of healthy food, subsidisation of school meals and investment in education and science. These are nine-year-olds, school infrastructure, the third Slovenian University, student homes and so on. The necessary resources will be developed in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport financial plan, which will also propose to the government to amend the planned programmes. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] investment is shared between the government and the ministry: the government decides on the number and type of investment projects within the development programme and the Ministry on the amount of resources needed to carry out the individual investment. [[...]] The proposal also provides that the programmes under which the local community will provide municipally equipped land will be given priority and that the economy will invest its resources irreparably in the investment. The Annexes to the Act contain specific figures for the financing of individual projects by 2008. The Committee made proposals for the inclusion of additional investment items and the Committee drafted an amendment whereby Ptuj High School of Agriculture, Lutomer High School, Slovenian Konjica Gymnasium and Ribnica High School are included in funding as items, but no funding is provided for them and no time allocations are specified. We believe that the business requirements for creating amendments to the table items should not be an obstacle to allowing funding for educational programmes where necessary. Nevertheless, we support the Committee's amendment, as it allows for a possible flow of free resources from other users to this in newly placed secondary schools. In our New Slovenia Group, we are aware that there is a need to provide education outside large centres. This would give our young people more opportunities in the countryside. Information and communication literacy is one of the essential skills that a student needs to acquire, but we still have a large shortage of computer equipment in our schools, as, for example, there are on average 12 computers per 100 students in the EU, while there are three times fewer, for example 4. It is also important that the way of learning in Slovenian schools becomes analytical and concluding rather than factual presentation and verification. Only digital literacy can direct students more than ever to find information, not so much to their meaningful integration. It should therefore be pointed out that, in addition to information literacy, there is also a need for an analytical way of learning and checking knowledge. The government also notes in its introduction to the bill that the system of higher education will need to move from basic systematisation to systematisation, taking into account the number of students and graduates. The abolition of basic systematisation would result in the abolition of certain directions for which there is no interest at some point in time and thus the end of continued maintenance of the level of knowledge. The state must encourage interest in studies in such directions and universities, including by improving the situation in individual economic sectors and thus research in these areas. Establishing systematisation based on the number of students and graduates should only be an additional criterion for financing basic systematisation of higher education jobs. Investment in higher education needs to be attracted by economic and public research institutes from a specialist postgraduate study. Businesses and institutes can make it much easier to acquire special skills than universities. The New Slovenia Group, which supports education and science all the time, will support the law, but I must point out that we are very afraid that this will move into an even more distant future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you. Also the position of the Slovenian National Party, which is to be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Does Bogdan Barovich want to do this? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! I am also a member of this committee, and you are probably also the few who are present today in the meeting room, members of this committee, or perhaps even rarely interested in all that is happening. I can't go through with this - I'm just going to make a little bit of use of it, Mr President - I don't think it's fair that, I really don't think it's fair that I don't know, we're convincing the surest people that we've already agreed on everything we're talking about at a few meetings on the work force of the mother. But good. When we spoke a few moments ago about the law on research and development activities, I said in principle the position of the Slovenian National Party that we absolutely support this law and that we require more order, more discipline in this area, more investment and planned investment. Well, now that we are talking about basic development programmes in the field of education and science, of course we can speak differently, because this is one of the basics which essentially confirms our principled binding positions on the law we discussed earlier. However, here perhaps I would have asked a little question to the Minister, when I think that last September, October I was not sitting, we had about the same positions despite the opposite political poles as to whether there were quite a few high numbers in the tables and figures in the Rapporteur that we could not put together, where they belong, whether this money is or not, whether it is actually an investment in knowledge, or whether it is an investment in science education, or whether it is an investment in real estate. As far as I have been able to quickly review the work of the respected committee, I will therefore not argue, on 2 October, that things have been repeated since September and that the decision adopted in September does not apply. I'm sorry. Because when I look at the tables, the amounts - but indeed, I have not been so precise, so I will not argue - which once again raise doubts, but I do not doubt that there is a need for development programmes in the field of education and science to be carried out in accordance with the principles. I have also read your speech, Madam Minister, in which you have been very specific, very precise, to say how much money it takes to make what has not yet been done and to do what is planned. Of course, I absolutely agree with that. I don't want to be played again. I admit that, personally at that time, I have stated that there is a list that we see, which we have seen in the Rapporteur, that this may, in fact, be a pre-election list of the wishes of some individuals from specific areas, as shown in these tables. Even if it is, there's nothing wrong with it. But once again, dear colleagues and colleagues, I warn you - no one opposes education and science and its development, God forbid that anyone opposes it, but by the time we get to these laws, today we have heard, so succinctly, so unplanned, tell me, please, once again. I would like to hear the assurance that this National Assembly will be able to handle the financial burdens that have suddenly fallen, I will say from heaven. Once again, I absolutely support the development of science, technology, education and education, but all the financial burdens that come in this area, in the fields of culture, in the field of, once again, I stress, the European Union, our budget will be such a horror in two years. And if we sit in the next term - I say, if we do - we won't be able to plead on the previous reference, because we will be the ones we confirm, and we are right to confirm, but where did they guarantee where the guarantees for the resources of these funds are? I do not oppose anyone in all of Slovenia to build a new school, to set up a new school, to educate more and more people who are now limited, I am the first to do so, but I am once again alerting whether the financial plan is planned, designed, or we will have to tell taxpayers how and what through the rebalancing. In the Slovenian National Party, we support - and so on - the basic development programme, but once again I ask for the assurance that our rebalancing will not become a bottomless bag due to consistent financial planning and that we will demand too much from taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you. No amendments were tabled to the supplementary proposal of the law and there is therefore no discussion on individual articles. This is the conclusion of the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the bill will be carried out on Friday, 25.10.2002. This concludes this agenda item. At 12.15 a.m., we will continue our session with the 12th item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u57	We're moving on to 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of cultivation and education. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Madam Secretary, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Of course, for the last time in other cases, we have brought in some comparisons, which in particular confirm the willingness of the Government and, of course, also probably of the National Assembly to harmonise our education in the light of tolerance to all religions and equality before the law, irrespective of the fact that we are also obliged to do so by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has found the non-compliance of the third paragraph of Article 72 of the Law. The proposed amendments to the Education and Education Financing Act therefore regulate this part. In addition, we are correcting some mistakes in Article 1, one that has been written down to us, which is not really very important. And we also deal with certain difficulties at the level of teacher education or the competence of teachers for certain areas of education and education. We propose, irrespective of the fact that this clause on the conclusion of a fixed-term working relationship is also laid down in the labour legislation, the extension of this working relationship, we propose a two-year period with the same candidate, where, in the field in question, we focus on certain professional profiles in secondary vocational education, as well as certain profiles in primary education. In fact, this ensures, on the one hand, that we will have trained teachers in a certain period, which we have already regulated back by law. We are trying to cover all the cities in education with trained teachers, but we are allowing this article a certain period, which will actually end just a few years from now, so that even those teachers who are still in education and in profiles, where there are not enough teachers to deal with the pressures of individual schools. That's actually everything on our side. We are also grateful for the thorough debate or for the Members who had a thorough discussion in the home working body as well. And, of course, we are also prepared to justify certain things today, if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. The report will be presented by the chairman of the committee, Rudolf Moge. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u60	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Committee has taken action to rectify this law on the basis of decisions of the Constitutional Court. The amendments were only tabled under Articles 2 and 4 of the Act, these are precisely the two articles which were disputed in the basic law due to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The most debate on the Committee was on Article 2 on how to implement a decision of the Constitutional Court, which assessed that paragraph 72 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in respect of confessional activities in kindergartens and schools with concessions included explanations contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The basic dilemma was when confessional education can be carried out or whether it can be carried out at school premises if public service is carried out in other places at the same time and how to ensure the constitutional right of lay public school to believers and non-believers. In order to cast any shadow of doubt on the text of this article, which provides for the conduct of confessional activities in schools with concessions, the Committee has drafted an amendment which was later adopted, and it reads something like this: "In schools and schools with concessions, confessional activity is permitted when carried out outside the programme being carried out as a public service. The confessional activity shall be permitted in schools and schools with concessions if it does not interrupt the time period and does not physically interfere with the programme, which is carried out as a public service. The conduct of a confessional activity must be organised in such a way that those who do not wish to participate in this activity are allowed a smooth arrival and departure.” Therefore, generally speaking, this activity does not interfere with the implementation of the public programme as it was in the basic law, so the amendment is largely anchored and precisely defined in which cases this would be a disturbance. The Committee has also dealt very closely with Article 4, which speaks of the establishment of school administrations. He somehow reached an amendment to establish them by 1 September 2005 at the latest, and carried out the tasks of the school administrations established by this law, the education ministry and individual administrative units. The secretariat subsequently gave an opinion on this supplementary proposal that this is not a good one and that Mr Germič has also abolished this non-compliance with the amendment. That'll be all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you, chairman of the committee. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at the September session, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups here today. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 21.10.2002. In this review, we have one amendment to Articles 2 and 4. Earlier I would remind you that the time for discussion has been announced: Liberal Democracy 5 minutes, Social Democrats Slovenia 5 minutes, United List 20 minutes, Slovenian People's Party 20 minutes, Nova Slovenija 15 minutes, Slovenian National Party 10 minutes, Party of Youth 5 minutes and government 5 minutes. Please, let's hold on to this time. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Mrs Ana Marija Tisovic wants the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u62	As we have heard, the Constitution in Article 7 provides for the free functioning of religious communities, which refers to Article 1 of the Constitution, the principle of democracy, and Article 41 of the Constitution, which speaks of freedom of conscience. In the third paragraph of Article 41 of the Constitution, within the framework of freedom of religion, the Constitution grants parents the right to provide their children with religious education in accordance with their beliefs. This constitutional right also obliges parents to respect their religious beliefs in the field of education and education. In this respect, the Government has proposed an amendment to Article 72 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the government has taken due account of the Constitutional Court's decision, so we will defend the government's proposal or amendment. However, we cannot agree with the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the Joint List Group of Members and DeSUS, which says that confessional activity must be organised in such a way that those who do not wish to participate in this activity are allowed to come and leave without delay. We are convinced that if a confessional activity takes place in such a way that it does not interfere with the implementation of the public programme as the Government has written in its article, this is a sufficiently correct article as the Constitutional Court has requested. With the amendment already tabled by the said group of Members, these conditions are being very tightened, and this is already limiting almost to intolerance to other thinkers. If we want to raise tolerant citizens who can respect themselves and equally think differently, we must work in this direction. Tolerance does not begin to be cultivated only in adults, but this process lasts from birth to death. Therefore, in the parliamentary group, we propose that we reconsider such a rigorous separation so that we do not even legalise intolerance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you. It's a replica, Comrade Squirrel. A debate? Then I give the floor to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. So it's about Article 2. We no longer have amendments from LDS, the United List and DeSUS, but we have the text, as adopted by the Committee, supplemented by the text of the Committee. However, we have an amendment, as proposed by the New Slovenia Group. The situation is unusual, in fact, that the opposition defends the original government solution and the coalition is divided here if we say so directly. First, I would like to explain or try to define the problem. I have the impression that when we talk about the Constitutional Court's decision, many - sometimes I have also seen it in the media, it comes from the wrong assumption. In view of the Constitutional Court's decision, in the case where it is said that it is necessary for the legislator to redefine the issue of confessional activity in schools and schools with concessions, it touches an extremely small number of institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. He doesn't touch a single elementary school. Because there is no primary school in Slovenia where the concession would be. It touches only one high school, which is a high school, which is not a classic high school, it is Price Šupar. And it touches 13 kindergartens, but kindergartens with concessions. So basically, if we come out of life, we're talking about kindergartens. I asked myself again, it seems that there is no enthusiasm for anyone in the field of primary education to seek a concession. And that question seems to be gone in the next few years. And even high schools probably won't go in the direction of concessions. So we're supposed to have kindergartens in front of us. However, when I read the discussions, I also read the transcript, the discussions of my mother's working body, and I feel that some think that this decision is touching, for example, the schizophrenic high school in Ljubljana. But he doesn't touch it, he doesn't touch it in anything. Not in Želelj, not in Vipava. He doesn't touch anything. And that needs to be made clear. And when we carefully read the decision of the Constitutional Court, one also sometimes feels that the Constitutional Court felt that there were more schools in Slovenia with concessions. And there are only 13 kindergartens and one high school, which is the high school of Centipede Šuparje. That's what you have to say, though. And of course to find that this issue is not a problem in Slovenia at all. And of course, because if we went to look closely at those candidates for constitutional review, these were parents, they focused in particular on another issue. And then the Constitutional Court decided on the subject. That's the first thing. The second issue is specifically related to the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and to the solution proposed by the Committee in Article 2, which states: "In schools and schools with concessions, confessional activity is permitted when carried out outside the programme carried out as a public service. Confession activity shall be permitted in schools and schools with concessions if the time periods are interrupted and the space programme is not obstructed as a public service." Last sentence: "The conduct of a confessional activity must be organised in such a way that those who do not wish to participate in this activity are allowed a smooth arrival and departure." My opinion is that the last sentence here is really unnecessary. The last sentence may be a classic component of school order, internal act in school or organisation of work. In fact, it is unnecessarily written in the text of Article 2 as we have received here in the additional proposal. The amendment of the New Slovenia Group is, in fact, following a government solution. However, it is necessary to say correctly that the legislative and legal service has stated this solution in the first opinion, in the first opinion, that this government provision here is somewhat unclear and that it should be clarified in the light of the Constitutional Court decision. That's what the secretariat says. It is very clear on the first page below, if you look, in the first opinion, at the first opinion of the Secretariat, I am not talking about an additional opinion. It is, of course, an interpretation of how you understand the Constitutional Court's decision; it is always a matter of judgment, of the legislator's judgment, so that in the Group of Members we believe that if a government decision were to be taken, that a re-judication in the Constitutional Court would also be interrupted. That's our opinion. While we have proposed a compromise solution, we have said that if space and time does not interfere with the programme, this solution has dropped minimally, is not supported and now we have a solution as it is before us. However, I would like to draw particular attention to these three forms in terms of my first part of the debate. So we have public schools and kindergartens, then concession schools and private schools. The decision of the Constitutional Court on this issue is a very important decision and I would like to draw particular attention to some points in this Decision that may have been too little in public. In fact, the Constitutional Court has clearly written down, I am talking about private schools, of course, if constitutionally provided or, I apologize, the decision of the State not to allow private schools, but public schools, in practice because of exceptional rigidity, the tendency of public schools is in principle no longer in proportion to the notion of a democratic society. Here's a quote from one of the experts from abroad who the Constitutional Court is referring to here. The further question is whether the State must also ensure their actual existence. It is said that it must ensure co-financing. In the light of the constitutional requirement that the possibility of effective and effective exercise of human rights should be ensured, the answer is yes. If the constitutionally guaranteed plurality of educational institutions is actually achieved, it is also the responsibility of the State to create financial opportunities for this. While its contribution depends on how much it can do, support must be such as to enable the actual existence of private education. This is a very important point in the Constitutional Court decision, which, in fact, at constitutional level reaffirms the State's commitment to support, actually supports private education in Slovenia. I think it is a very important point of this decision, which is less public talk. When the legislator, the National Assembly, weighed how it would enforce the Constitutional Court's decision, he was, in my opinion, ahead of a difficult task. He weighed, so it's about proportions. The protection of the negative aspect of freedom of religion, the unbelieving or otherwise believing, and the severity of the consequences resulting from an intervention in a positive aspect of freedom of conscience. About that, that's basically the problem. There's a way to solve this. In fact, the task is not simple. In our view, the government went in the right direction, colleagues in the coalition felt that things needed to be written down here even more clearly, they also had a majority, they also had a majority in the committee, and this resolution received majority support. In our view, however, this solution needlessly states: "The implementation of confessional activities must be organised in such a way that those who do not wish to participate in this activity are allowed to arrive and leave without delay." In our view, there is simply too much attention and weight in this matter, which is easy and I am sure that it would be like kindergartens, because it will not, elsewhere, be settled in the house order. So we're talking about kindergartens, because there's no other problem, and most likely there won't be any for a while. I would like to conclude with another expert opinion which speaks about the issue and is, of course, partly linked to this article and also to the decision of the Constitutional Court. It's a matter of separating the church from the state. The possibility of certain confessional activities, not in the organisation and under the patronage of the State, being carried out in public-owned premises does not touch on the question of the separation of State and religious communities. The position that the public school premises or kindergartens of the State, which represent the state as a symbol, in this context is excessive and the principle of separation of the religious community is sooner violated than realized. In the 11th recital of the Constitutional Court, the Court stated that the principle of separation of state and religious communities obliges the State to be neutral, tolerant and non-missionary. Is it really possible to make it clear to the State that it is not neutral for different religious beliefs outside the public service to make available the premises of public kindergartens or schools under the same conditions to all religious communities, including to carry out activities which, in the fourth paragraph of Article 72 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education, are considered to be confidential, or that the freedom to carry out such activities constitutes the missionary activity of the State, or is it contrary to the fact that, by prohibiting such activities in all cases, the State is at risk of violating that constitutional principle itself, where religious intolerance is reflected. End of quote. I mentioned this opinion, which I wrote in a separate positive opinion by Constitutional Judge Testen, who could actually say which could enrich our debate. The legislator must also consider such an approach as stated in a positive separate opinion by Constitutional Judge Testen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you. I've been notified by two discussers, if I understand the gesture correctly. Do you have a replica? It's a debate. Then it's mag's turn. A trifle, then Peter Levich and Miran Potch. [[The voices in the background.]] I'm sorry, that's how I saw Comrade Tiny, thank you very much. [[...]] Quiet Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The issue that we are discussing is of particular importance to our Group of Members for principle reasons. It may be agreed that this law will not yet address many specific and controversial issues, but the law foresees certain situations and applies in advance to all similar cases. As a result, the regulation of this issue is how to exercise the right to freedom of conscience and religion in a positive sense, the right to confess, and also, as the Constitutional Court says, in a negative sense, the right not to profess faith if you are not a believer, and the inability of anyone to exercise any pressure or compulsion to do so is extremely important in the law. In the opening, it is also right to say why we have actually come to a discussion at the time of the marriage or this law. For the reason that a constitutional initiative had been tabled, the constitutional requirement requiring the assessment of Article 72 of the Law on the Basics of the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education and the requirement was to establish that the provisions were fully unconstitutional so that religious learning should therefore be introduced both in public school and in school with concessions in full and of course also in private school. And there's been a debate from here. The Constitutional Court has undeniably found that it is possible to talk about the need for a confessional education only in a school with concession, but not in a public school, and this is the part that we are currently considering. I think it is right to say this because it is now an impression that the government or those who want to settle this issue is guilty of discussing this and that the issue should not be important. The solutions now proposed in law and the amendments tabled, I hope, show that the dispute that confessional activity in public education and schools is no longer permitted is no longer. I hope that this dispute is resolved by a decision of the Constitutional Court. In accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, however, the question remained whether and to what extent, and also under what conditions, confessional activity was permitted in schools and schools with concessions, i.e. in schools and kindergartens, which are private property, and the State also entrusted them with a concession to carry out a public education and education programme. In our opinion, the Constitutional Court's decision in this part is also very clear: when these schools or kindergartens perform public service or carry out publicly established programmes, it is the view of the Constitutional Court that confessional activity in them is not permitted. This is not only about teaching and programme, which is a public service, but also about the places where such a program or teaching is carried out. Therefore, confessional activity is also possible in a private school or a school with a concession only in that part of the education or education not carried out as a public service, i.e. outside the implementation of a publicly valid programme. This is indisputably clearly defined in the decision of the Constitutional Court. As I read it myself, in the United List of Social Democrats, and we have read it several times, and that is not enough for a constitutional court. On the contrary, it claims and insists that even when it comes to an activity carried out outside a public programme, the law must provide for solutions which will safeguard the rights of non-believers in order to exercise their right to non-refoulement. Any conduct that, in fact, constitutes an indirect coercion of any kind, including freedom of non-expression of faith or of the world view, must be prohibited so as not to put such citizens in any uneasy position. There may be many quotations that are clear from the Constitutional Court’s decision to say in this direction, but the one who read it will find them himself. As a result, we are convinced that this last part needs to be handled very precisely. And here, I hope, only here are the differences between the solutions that we have reached together on our insistence in the Liberal Democracy, DeSUS and our parliamentary group, and between the proposals first proposed by the government and also between the amendment now proposed by New Slovenia. For we argue that the legislator must also provide, as clearly as possible, for schools or kindergartens with concessions, for how the conduct of a confessional activity in a work carried out outside a public programme will not affect or indirectly constitute any pressure or coercion on the unbelieving or otherwise believing in their freedom of non-refoulement of religion. See, the 32nd paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision clearly states that legislative measures should be adopted in law and practice to ensure a negative aspect of freedom of conscience for those individuals who do not wish to profess their faith. Clearly in a work where confessional activity in schools and kindergartens is allowed at all. And we're trying to get it into the marriage. And in this it is also essential, in our opinion, a very important difference between the solution now incorporated into the law, on the basis of the amendment of the three parliamentary groups: the LDS, the United List and the DeSUS, and between the text, as proposed by New Slovenia. In the text of the law, there are built-in solutions which, at least for example, do not mention everything, but there are cases where the spatial activity should not interfere with the public education programme. That the spatial public education programme should not be in any way hampered, carried out in less suitable premises or temporarily in more difficult and less appropriate circumstances, because a confessional activity is carried out in these premises. It clearly states that confessional activity must not be interrupted by a public programme and clearly states that, at the beginning and end of the public part of the educational programme, confessional activity must not be organised in such a way as to cause any inconvenience or influence to those who do not wish to participate in confessional activities as regards free entry or departure from education or protection. The amendment of New Slovenia is likely to remain consciously inconclusive and questionable on all these issues. In practice, it would imply ambiguities, and it could also cause disputes. It would allow the unequality of believers and at least indirect pressure on them. I could also make it possible to be impatient with the unbelievers. We therefore want the questions of religious education or of religious teaching in schools to be regulated in full respect for the rights and equality of religion, as well as the rights and freedoms of the unbelievers, to express this belief. This will ensure the separation of the Church and the country and the laity of the school, and therefore we believe that the amendment, as proposed by Nova Slovenija, is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you. And now I give the word "magic." A trifle, and then Peter Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to express my opinion under Article 72 and explain why we have tabled an amendment to this Article. Our parliamentary group has introduced a law amending and supplementing the law on financing education and education due to constitutional controversy, provisions on the implementation of confessional activities in private. Once again, I would like to stress - in the case of individuals with concessions. Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent school ministry has shown the need to amend certain other articles, [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] We have shown a great deal of benevolence to their serious initiatives and have therefore deviated from the proposal of the law. [[...]] On the basis of patient cooperation, a text corresponding to constitutional judgement, the Ministry's intentions and our thinking has been prepared. This proposal for amendments, which are in fact government proposals, is still supported. Here sometimes some people in the LDS and the United List felt necessary - let us be clear, for those who were carriers of the constitutionally contested law - that the text should be supplemented and sharpened to limit the possibility of introducing confessional instruction in private individuals who have obtained a concession for the implementation of the public school programme. In this way, the confidence of our parliamentary group has been played, in particular by colleagues of Tisovic, who have patiently, responsibly and well-meaningly deviated from the bill's proposal. But that's not the most important thing. What's worse is that by doing this, this change that happened last time, we're risking unconstitutional regulation again. The amendment's sponsors made it clear by their comments on the home committee - a magnetogram is available that a private person who has a concession must not carry out a confessional activity in any of the remaining school premises during the implementation of the programme, even though this space would be empty. This has shown them how far they are to the constitutionally guaranteed private space. Once again, they have unduly intervened in the private sphere and restricted constitutional freedom, so the new law can once again constitute an unconstitutional state. At the same time, they misused the trust of a Member who had given up the proposal in good faith and introduced its constitutionally disputed provisions. In addition to constitutional disputes, it makes it difficult for these schools to operate, which is not in the spirit of the Constitutional Court's decision, since you have prevented them from doing other activities in private spatial capacities where there is no public programme running, and thus making their efforts for economic adequacy more difficult without having any reason to do so. This, however, has been pointed out earlier by fellow Member Podobnik - how the plurality of the implementation of schools is and how this should be encouraged. Some other dimensions of State understanding and freedom open up in this dispute. For ten years in our country, the primacy of human rights over the country or countries over human rights has been beating. Or even more precisely: between those political entities that own the country and human rights. The change should be such as to ensure the fundamental human rights and freedoms of parents, including parents, that they provide religious and moral education to their children in accordance with their beliefs, but they do not force others to do so if they do not want to. What is happening now can be called "a mental apartheid" and a policy of mental intolerance. It is quite clear that we do not have a plural offer of operators, as already mentioned by Comrade Podobnik. If you look in the neighbouring European countries, you can find that plurality is of the performers, including private, including various confessions, and that it increases civil freedom and not just quality. Analyses have shown that unfortunately state schools are worse at this.How will we enter competitive knowledge if we have such a hidden offer of schools? Changes are also needed with regard to free school. What is happening today is a national disaster, but I do not want to talk about it because this is not the subject of this article. I reiterate our support for the proposal for amendments to such a dictatorship as the Government has prepared. Let me take advantage of this time - I think it is still available - to somehow replicate Mr Ptræ with the same measure. If there is religion on one side and atheism on the other, then you must be in the same position. Then, with the same justification, those who are faithful require that they not be disturbed, in a spatial and time-consuming manner, by atheism and by unbelief, by taking equal account of school leaving and coming to school. Here I replicate, if you so harshly make demands - with the same weight they will be able to demand that they do not touch it. But I'll tell you what, playing like that leads, really, to impatience. And I don't want to replicate and contact you that way. Let us show this measure of tolerance, as is the case in European countries. That is why, in our opinion, the dictatorship prepared by the government fully fits, fully responds to Slovenian and European space and to the normal sense of man. So, once again, I stress: tolerance and equal vats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thanks for the debate. I give my word to my colleague, Peter Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I do not have to say that in the general debate we were quite understood because of the noise in the hall, what we were going to say. However, the essence was said to respect the Constitutional Court's decision and at the same time to adopt a solution that would prevent disagreements and disputes due to different interpretations. On Monday, we heard from Minister Rupl that even the Ambassador's words sometimes come out wrong when it comes to such an important topic as confessional activity. With regard to the proposal for a law at first reading or to Article 2, I considered that the applicant was not consistent or clear enough to fail to reach what the Constitutional Court requires in relation to the unhindered public programme, namely neutrality, which is reflected in both a positive and a negative aspect of freedom of conscience. I felt that this vague, overly loose dictatorship needed to be written in a clearer or better way. In fact, the representatives of the proposer or the majority of the members of the group, the coalition, tabled an amendment to Article 2 at the second reading. This one was adopted. In my opinion, Article 2 is now adequately defined and we have also supported it in our party. For the same reason, of course, we oppose the amendment of New Slovenia, which proposes the original dictatorship, which we initially thought was too loose. And, as has already been said, overly loose dictions can also mean the introduction of a believer through the back door in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you. Someone else wants a debate by 2. A member and an amendment? Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For the debate on Article 2 and the amendment tabled to it by the honourable Member, Ana Marija Tisovic, I appeal to those who wish to express their intolerance to someone too quickly. The debates so far have repeatedly stressed that neither the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats nor I, as a debater, dispute the decision of the Constitutional Court imposing on the legislator the amendment of Article 72(3) of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. However, I reserve the right not to support the proposed amendment, because I still believe that the proposed amendment does not follow the Constitutional Court's decision in the part where it refers to the negative aspect of religious freedom. If I try to distinguish between schools with concessions and private schools, it is clear to me that the Constitutional Court's decision does not apply to private schools where the issues of confessional activity are regulated but otherwise, and we know that they run according to different principles. However, for schools with concessions, the proposed solution in the amended bill in this article, in my opinion, has taken into account those efforts which have been repeatedly made, that an addition which tells how also those who are untrustworthy or who do not wish to express their faith should be allowed to remain protected. Now, what does that mean and how someone is experiencing it, or who is experiencing it now as a legalization of intolerance, is another question. However, it can be derived from what can be understood from the text so written in the law and what is also imposed on those who organize a confessional activity. In doing so, I would like to point out that confessional activity is by definition more than just a believer. This is also the case for certain other activities belonging to the area of confessional activity. And these have stayed out of our minds. However, since we often have to make decisions about these things because the public often wonders about these things, many questions are being raised. After all, even if we are talking about the fifth paragraph of Article 72 of the Education and Education Financing Act, we cannot ignore certain facts that those who are involved in schools where confessional activity is organised because of the impossibility of the environment, those - I mean those who do not participate in such situations - recognize or feel that they are being bullied because of their non-participation in the faith. Excuse the expression, bullied. If this is not tolerance or tolerance now, however, it is necessary to consider that the environment or functioning in society is so targeted that those who access from the expectations of the environment in which they live are more observable and therefore more exposed to pressure. But I dare say that faith is as old as infidelity. That all these millenniums in the world exist, but how they date each other, the question is, and I will not support the amendment of Ambassador Tisovchev precisely because I think that the amendment is too precise and that it allows for even future things not to be regulated in such a way that the rights of one and another are duly respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you and I give my word to my colleague Podobnik first, and then to Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I'd like to recommit to the debate. I would suggest that we use the term 'confessional activity', not 'faith', because then it's a typical way of making confusion between people. I used to -- if I did, I don't know, because my colleague Levich spoke so quietly that I didn't hear him -- but I had the impression that he finally said that he was afraid that somehow we would introduce a believer through the back door. I don't know because he spoke so quietly. But this is an abuse of this agenda for such thinking! Because if I read the Constitutional Court decision, then it is clear that anyone who speaks that way, especially wants to work in fact, would say, divisions, cultural-ideological divisions, which are usually the best before the elections. And I think that's an incorrect statement because I don't know where to see any chance of that. The decision of the Constitutional Court is clear here and I fully respect it for my part. However, I have the impression that we are quick to manifest impatience among ourselves, and so on, that we should take a different course. Let's ask ourselves how the concession school system works now, but there's no -- so we're in a paradoxical situation, we have an experience that isn't, we're arguing about it -- so let's go to kindergarten, because that's the only place that works. I'm a practical man myself. I imagine that it would be possible for an initiative to come to some kindergarten to suggest that one of the faithful parents should have a small children's group to invite those children who are faithful; for example, here would be an opportunity. Well, and how we would organize work in such a kindergarten - with great ease. With great ease, with agreement, with a way that would in no way mean a negative aspect of freedom of conscience. Here's the thing. Tell me another option. The matters you're talking about here are not related to this matter, to this decision. It was only now that I understood, I must admit, after a long time - I had several conversations with my colleague Potrato - that is, what this is about. We know that the legislation states that the conduct of a confessional activity is also in the premises of public kindergartens and schools outside and separate from the public service if there are no other cases of premises for the conduct of a confessional activity in the local community; this possibility is laid down by law. And now I have somehow understood that there could be this negative aspect of freedom of conscience. If so, then suggest a change of law. But this case has nothing to do with this Constitutional Court decision, which repeatedly boasts of this solution, is also an argument for a decision by the Constitutional Court that the current decision in law, that no confessional activity is allowed in schools with concessions, is contrary to the Constitution - and rightly argues with this solution, which you say you have a bad experience. So if you have it, suggest a change of law. As a Member of Parliament, I am very much moving among people, and such information has not yet come to light. However, I think we can get data on how many times in Slovenia this possibility is being used; I think that in some small municipalities or, if it does happen, I do not know what kind of spatial distress that a very specific matter is going to happen that is related to functioning. Once again, I would suggest that we try to solve this solution in the law in Article 2 through the real reality of this problem and not through the many divisions and frustrations that have burdened us for the past ten years, because this is the worst basis for this paradoxical situation to continue for another ten years. That someone immediately enters the dam - and colleague Potč has very restrictively also interpreted the provision that is now written - I think he deliberately overly interpreted and, of course, challenged the reaction of the opposite parties, needlessly because some of the things he spoke about do not appear in this amendment [[Of course, I'm talking about the amendment of the committee.]] . And that's classic, even restrictive interpretation was unnecessary: you pour oil on fire to challenge the opposite side. But as we say, let's talk about kindergartens, because we only have kindergartens in this area. Or, perhaps the Secretary of State will tell you how many applications for concessions he has for primary schools and how many applications he has for concession in the field of secondary schools. That would be interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you. First, I give priority to the replica, Mrs. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I hope to respond in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to the honourable Member, Mr Podobnik. Indeed, in the second part, I spoke of the fifth paragraph and of the experience they have in schools where the principals or principals have asked the Ministry for permission to carry out a confessional activity at public school premises due to inappropriate spatial conditions in the parish or at a church where there are no such places. And not just one specific local name could tell you where the school leadership in the following year, because of the bad experience it had, has no longer decided to ask the Ministry for permission to implement Article 72(5). I know the number of schools per year is different. I would not like to talk about this right now, but I would like to answer just one more part of the debate. We have not initiated a debate on this law and changes to our own will. That is why I do not see why I should make a proposal to amend paragraph 5 of Article 72. The decision of the Constitutional Court is a consequence of another requirement which has appeared to some citizens of Slovenia to be a violation of constitutional provisions. And it is in this regard that I do not now dare to judge how much this requirement of constitutionality was linked to the number of problems we are talking about. But I can certainly talk about at least one experience in kindergarten. That children at the time of being a believer, but those who did not attend had to go to bed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you. I'm asking my colleague Potts if it's a replica or a debate. I've seen your hand before. No, no, no. Then I give my word to my colleague Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I haven't spoken about this point or this law before, and I haven't prepared for today, and I didn't want to. However, when I listen to pre-prepared studies read here, in fact, from a position, I think, atheistic dogmatics, I must say that I am concerned. Where is this taking us? In fact, I think the amendment of the New Slovenia Group is returning the matter to the framework of a constitutional decision. Unlike what's now written, I don't know what kind of divorce. I think my buddy Petty Officer used a good term. Some in this country would like to go "supervised apartheid." That's right! That's right. On the basis of such solutions, man is concerned, because now there is subconsciously some sort of mental hatred from these sides, you come from a negative point of view - and now I will say - of atheistic freedom. Look, I'm worried about what the direction of this side of you is going to be. In fact, it is known that your party's president is very democratic, tolerant of this matter or that he once defined it. I don't see the dogmatics in this, I don't know the dangers, and I think that's one of the reasons why the party literally forced him to leave this position that is the most influential in our country. I read his interview in the Saturday annex, and I see that he did not voluntarily make up his mind in a whole bunch of points for the presidential candidacy. But what's going to happen here? You can't wait, and the direction of this party will, obviously, be taken over by the "satellite hawks" here. Where are they taking this country? Here it insists on the position in such an area of some Soviet solutions. I must say that Mr Drnovšek, I have read several times, had intolerable proposals. Where will you bring this country with such dogmatic atheism and with such apartheid in this area? Well, all people have the right to be equal! Here, however, there is a literal fear that someone will not meet the student who also went to a confessional activity. And that was in South Africa, people of God! Are you introducing the principles of South Africa here in this country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 2 and the amendment? Mr. Miran Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Since there have been some concerns about the content of my debate, let me say that I made it clear, explicitly, from the Constitutional Court's decision. In order not to be, I would say, however reinterpreted, I will therefore read it in two, three places, that Mr Podobnik will also understand that I do not interpret it restrictively, but as he writes. One part of point 13 states explicitly: "Three subserviences also come from freedom of religion for an individual: the right to belong to any religion, the right to change faith and the right to have no faith." Point 11 explicitly states, "Article 7 contains," that is, the Constitution, "only the general principle of separation between the State and the religious communities on the basis of which the State is committed to neutrality, tolerance and non-missionary action. In the field of education, this means that religious content cannot be part of public education, that is, not part of public school teaching or part of public school teaching which the State has awarded the concession." Mr Drobnič, the Constitution should be read when it is said that it would possibly be necessary in the same way as in order to ensure a negative aspect, to ensure that a neutral, lazi school does not apply to the higher-ranking. And then, directly and explicitly, point 19 states how a confessional activity can be carried out outside the public programme. It is explicitly stated that this must respect the negative aspect of freedom of religion, that this must not result in any form of religious or confessional activity being allowed, but in a way that prevents any negative influence. And as such milder means - again, I quote, explicitly - "to ensure a negative aspect of freedom of religion they refer to the theoretical and practical example: the prohibition of compulsory religious teaching. Religious teaching is organized before or after school so that students who do not want to attend can go home without delay." [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u81	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u82	All of these are quotes, and only these quotations were referred to in our suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I no longer see a desire to discuss Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2, so I conclude it. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Members with first-signed Mr Kavticnik to Article 4. Anybody want a word? Comrade Companion or Yes, first of all - [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you very much. So, we followed the opinions and recommendations of the legislative and legal service and properly corrected this article and this amendment is to be supported, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you. And also Comrade Squirrel, please. Comrade John Squirrel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u86	I've had a bit of an emissary. The question I wanted to address to the government representatives, I already got it from Dr. Gabra and I'm calling it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? As no, I conclude the debate on Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4. The assembly will hold a vote on the amendments below at 7.20 p.m. in the framework of the vote of the assembly on the entire agenda for today. This concludes this agenda item. At 1:45 a.m., we'll move on to the 13th item of the agenda. Until then, I'll take a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u88	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-workers. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that's a second-hand proposal for a law on invalidity organizations. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Minister for the Introduction of the Bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u89	Dear Members and Members. The proposal for a second reading law on disabled organisations is prepared in such a way as to take the fullest possible account of all the views of the National Assembly adopted after the first consideration of the proposal for a law in February 2000, and the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly also notes in its opinion of April 2002. In particular, I would like to point out that we have also taken into account the position of the National Assembly in the drafting of the legislative text in order to examine all the specific comments made by disabled groups and to take them into account as much as possible. And that's what we did. For this reason, the text of the draft law for the second reading is quite different from the text of the proposal in the first reading. Thus, we have tied the definition of a disabled person to the international disability classification, ensured openness and equality in the creation of new disability organisations, defined the conditions, criteria and method of acquiring the status of a disability organisation as a society acting in the public interest in the field of disability. We have also identified the possibility of organising and implementing disability organisations, which are not based on the characteristic of disability after individual functional defects, we have not tied the status of the disability organisation to a type but to a group of persons with a common interest; we have identified the recognition of representativeness to a sufficient percentage of persons with the same type of disability or different type of disability, but with the same or social status. In addition, we have foreseen the possibility of integration of all disabled organisations operating at national level into the National Council of Disability Organisations. The law also regulates transparent financial operations in disabled organisations and therefore prescribes a means of mandatory management of financial documentation and control over the legality, purposefulness and cost-effective use of public funds, supervision of the implementation of specific social programmes and investments, and supervision of the fulfilment of the criteria for the status and the criteria for representativeness of disabled organisations. The draft law was very widely coordinated before the second hearing with most disabled organisations and with all those who had comments, so that the text of the proposal would be as good as possible. Of course, all the comments could not be taken into account. In addition, due to the broad coordination of the bill, we were surprised by the public consideration of some of the issues covered by the text of the media bill and even the referendum initiative. In order to harmonise the bill with the views of disability organisations and to re-examine the concrete comments on the text of the bill, I called another coordination meeting with all disability organisations in September. In my opinion, the meeting took place in a patient dialogue among all those present. The majority opinion of the representatives of the disability organisations was that the proposed text of the law was appropriate and that the draft law took into account most of the comments made during the examination. Members and Members of Parliament, I propose that with the amendments, the amended proposal for a second reading law on disability organisations should be adopted and the Government should be instructed to draw up a proposal for a third-reading law by the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you, Dr Vlado Dimovski, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, for further explanation of the proposal. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. Comrade Stanislav Brenčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I welcome everyone here! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, held its 23rd regular meeting on 3.10.2002, and at the following meeting on 8.10.2002, a proposal for a law on disability organisations, the second addressed, discussed. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the legislative and legal service, representatives of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Office for Persons with Disabilities and a number of representatives of interested disability organisations and societies participated in the work of the committee. In accordance with Rule 126 and Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. The amendments were forwarded to the Committee by the LDS and the United List, mag. Janez Petty Officer and Dr. France Tsukati. In the debate on Article 3 of the bill and the amendments tabled, the most frequently raised was whether a disability organisation could act and represent the interests of all persons with disabilities at national and local level or could only represent the interests of its members. An amendment has been adopted which provides that the disability organisation shall take into account the principles of the State Strategy for the Development of Disability Protection and international standards in the field of disability protection in its work. As regards the visibility of the disability organisation, in the debate on Article 7 and the amendments tabled, the view was taken that, on behalf of associations or associations, it was not necessary to show to which persons with disabilities the activity of the disability organisation was intended. In the debate on Article 9, the Committee drafted its amendment on the basis of a proposal for an amendment by Ambassador Drobnik. The members of the Committee were of the uniform opinion that a disability organisation should not establish an undertaking whose activity is profitable. However, a broad discussion took place on a chapter defining the representativeness of disability organisations and the establishment of a national council, in particular Articles 19, 20 and 27. In the debate on Article 26 and the proposed amendment to this Article, the members of the Committee unanimously supported an amendment whereby any disability organisation wishing to do so can be included in the national council and operates at national level. We also supported the amendment of Mr Drobnič to Article 30 here. There has been a minor error in the report or the amended bill, which we are correcting by correcting. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 11, 19, 26, 28 and 37, amendments to the amendments to Articles 3, 11, 19, 26 and 37. Janez Drobnič, paragraphs 7, 13 and 30, Dr. Tsukjati, paragraphs 11, 12, 18. But he didn't accept the amendments, as the record says. The Committee of the National Assembly has drawn up its amendments to Articles 9, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 23 and 31. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on all articles of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Danica Simšič, United List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law that clearly belongs to those marked by a long parliamentary procedure or a long and hard way from the beginning, from the first idea to the final adoption. After a disability protection strategy was adopted in the Republic of Slovenia in 1991, in 1994 the National Assembly commissioned the government to prepare a law on disability organisations. It took almost five years for the government to draft the law, and the National Assembly nearly four years for the law to lead to this second treatment on the spoils. There are, of course, initiatives to call for a previous legislative referendum and one for which we have received an answer today, and a series of hot and controversial debates on the development of disability in our country and the various concepts behind which this development is to take place. The law was also accompanied by an analysis of the membership of disabled organisations, prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or on its behalf by the Office for Persons with Disabilities of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of a decision of the 2000 National Assembly. The discussion material, including the views of various interested disability organisations and other groups, was more than sufficient. In the UK Group, we support the adoption of a law on disability organisations, since it is a law governing both the status and the scope of operation and funding and the property of disabled organisations. It also lays down the conditions for the integration of disability organisations, for obtaining the status of representativeness of disability organisations, which are most recognizable right after the implementation of specific social programmes that significantly complement the country's concern for persons with disabilities. Therefore, their activity is also in the public interest. It is also good that the law defines both the Register of Disability Organisations and the Register of Representative Disability Organisations to require clear and transparent financing or financial documentation and, lastly, that it also has sanctions for non-compliance with the provisions of the law. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe it is good that the law also clearly defines the National Council of Disability Organisations, in which all disability organisations wishing and operating at national level can be integrated, whether they are representative or not. The main purpose of this National Council is to coordinate the various interests of persons with disabilities and, of course, to engage in dialogue with national authorities and other institutions, both at home and around the world. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we advocate that the law be adopted as soon as possible, as this would mean or allow for the smooth functioning of this part of civil society that cares for one of the most vulnerable parts of our society, that is, the disabled. The last thing we would like to do is, for reasons of differing views on the regulation of this area, the relatively high and good care of persons with disabilities, including with the help of existing national disability organisations, not only shrink, but with reckless moves and measures, although in fact it would be difficult to believe that these measures and actions could be considered, perhaps even prevented or eliminated. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the amended proposal for a second reading. Regarding the amendments, however, our support will be given to those amendments that we tabled together with the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. And we will not support the amendments of NSI and SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you. The position of the parliamentary group of nationalities would now follow, but the announced Marie Possonec is not present, so I will give my word to Mr Franc Tsukati, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. The disability problem has not yet been adequately addressed. And because of the complexity, complexity would require a systematic integrated approach. If the government really wanted to solve the problems of people with disabilities in an integrated way, this business would not have been done in the rear by regulating disability organisations. First of all, we should adopt an international disability classification in order to be able to identify how many and what disabled people we have. To this end, the government has already established a national working group for the introduction of international classification, disability, disability and obstacles over a period of more than one year. We should then adopt as soon as possible a law on the equalization of the possibility of persons with disabilities or anti-discrimination law, which was drafted by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in December last year. Finally, we would urgently need a law on the training and employment of persons with disabilities, which the same ministry prepared a year ago. To be sure, this law has proved that the number of unemployed persons has increased by ten times in 10 years, from 1991 to 2001, from 1,600 to 16,000. All of this should be done sooner than the law on disability organisations, which we do not really need, since disability organisations are voluntary societies already operating under the social law. And yet, the law is here. Let me mention some basic, essential, I would say, congenital errors of this law; first of all, that the law which should establish the conditions of operation and cooperation of disability societies does not provide such conditions of work for these societies to function smoothly. It does not remove obstacles, it does not allow inclusion in public life and in dialogue with the State in such a way that conflicts do not arise between the disability organisations themselves. But there's a conflict. That's why this marriage has been born for so long. And this basic problem with this law will not be solved. And that should be the basic task of this law. Secondly, one basic error of the law is the requirement that persons with disabilities be included in an individual disability organization with the same medical diagnosis or with the same type of disability or with different types of disability, but with the same social status of disability. Such segregation of people with disabilities has long survived in Western democracies, since membership is voluntary, the establishment of societies is voluntary, on whatever basis members want. The traditional disability organisations were created in our country at a time when individual rights were totally subordinate to the collective and the country's planning policies. At that time, most disabled people were automatically and according to the principle of classification according to diagnosis accepted among members of the so-called "appropriate" disability organization. The programmes of the disabled organisations created by this Act also today maintain the physical segregation of disabled people into different social institutions and institutions, do not encourage those aid models that provide as much as possible for the independent lives of individuals and active participation in all spheres of society. This is also the case today with the provision of transport, the removal of architectural barriers and two-week rehabilitation, and sometimes with the participation of disabled companies. The way they operate is still a hierarchical decision, discipline of membership, maintenance of relationships of dependence, subjugation of individual rights to the interests of the organisation. Example [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u96	Please, if you'll just finish because the time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u97	Yes, as indicated in the programme, it is 15 minutes of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u98	5 minutes are available for presentation of the views of the groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u99	May I continue at the expense of the debate? Or then.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u100	This is according to the rules of procedure, and you will then be included in the debate. Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary and Team, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on disability organisations is certainly one of those bills that has raised quite a bit of dust over the past few months. This led to two referendum initiatives. The first initiators did not collect enough signatures, and in the second case, sufficient signatures were collected, but in our opinion, there was an act of people and a referendum as institutions. All these events show that the proposal for a law on disability organisations by different actors is of great importance and is subject to intense controversy mainly in the parts relating to representativeness and funding. According to the law's view, which is, in short, in the regulation of the legal status of disabled organisations and in this respect is mostly of a technical nature, such attention in a certain sense is difficult to understand. However, it is precisely because of this fact that we have taken further the proposal for a law on disability organisations in the Liberal Democracy Group in order to identify everything that creates conflict and come to the following conclusions. In view of the overall aspect of disability protection, it is evident that the Disability Organisations Act cannot and will not solve and resolve all open issues and problems in this area. In fact, as already mentioned, it will primarily regulate the legal status of disabled organisations. The remaining open questions will fall under the domain of other laws, which need to be adopted as soon as possible in this area. Nevertheless, the Disability Organisations Act needs to correct all those ambiguities that could potentially allow for misinterpretation and, for the sake of those organisations, allow for possible manipulation. As a result of this fact, we have tabled several amendments in the LDS House of Members together with the United Nations Group of Members, which will clearly regulate the points at issue in this Act and prevent manipulation of representativeness. In designing these amendments, we have followed the following essential guidelines: Firstly, the status of representativeness cannot be exclusive in the dialogue with the State; it must coordinate all open issues in the field of disability with all disability organisations that show interest in this. All disabled organisations, irrespective of the status of representativeness, act in the public interest and therefore have, if I may say so, a public mandate to deal with these issues. Secondly, the National Council of Disability Organisations, as an association that brings together representative and other disability organisations operating at national level, must be open to all organisations that comply with the law on the disability organisation of the prescribed conditions. All members of this world must also be equal. Thirdly, the status of a disability organisation cannot be an exclusive condition for obtaining public funds. Public funding must be granted on the basis of the quality and extent of the programmes or content declared. Fourthly, representativeness cannot represent a pre-emptive advantage in obtaining funds from foundations of disabled and humanitarian organisations. All disability organisations must have the same baseline position in obtaining FIHO funds. Again, I have indicated that the Disability Organisations Act only partially solves all open issues and problems in the field of disability. For example, the acquisition of financial resources in FIHO in the Disability Organisations Act can only be defined from a limited perspective which provides equal opportunities for all disabled organisations. Aware of the limitations of the law on these and other issues, we believe that it is necessary to examine and amend the legislation of the FIHO accordingly and to regulate the matter in such a way as to prevent any potential corruption in advance. A step forward would be to change the composition of the FIHO Council in such a way that most of it would not be represented by organisations receiving FIHO funds. Despite these concerns, the law on disability organisations will be supported by the LDS in the House of Representatives. In order to improve the text of the law, we, together with the United List of Social Democrats, have tabled amendments to Article 9, which amends the second paragraph so that a disability organisation can set up or invest funds in a company engaged in a gainful activity, but only from funds specifically allocated to it for that purpose. Article 18 - because we believe that the number of disabled persons and their representatives, who are members of a disability organisation, is unnecessary in society. Article 28, where the amendment to the text eliminates a possible understanding that a disability organisation could not obtain public funds and Article 30, the text of the amendment submitted shall more precisely regulate the area of the financial documentation on the disability organisation and determine the possibilities for the charging of surpluses shall incur funds in the implementation of the programme exclusively into banks and government securities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you. Following is the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I give my word to Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. The Slovenian People's Party's Group has already been through a relatively long and controversial debate and developments related to the conceptual content of the proposal for a law on disability organisations, both the purpose and the concept of a bill supports. It also welcomes the fact that, finally, after the complications that were present regarding the treatment of this law, a second reading session took place. We strongly believe that it would be more reasonable and systematic to have a predecessor of this law in order to be a law on the equalization of the possibility of persons with disabilities. Normative regulation of the area of the disability organisation system and also funding is urgently needed for several serious reasons and as such welcome for the further development of disability protection in the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. We are confident that, on the basis of the solutions provided by the proposal of this law - and in addition to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the content and concept of the law will move slightly further away from the excessive recording of the existing state - if nothing else, at least exceed the unsustainable situation in the relationship between individual disability organisations, which are all too encouraged by the approaches of individuals, who are needlessly damaging or more damaging than the benefits of good organization of persons with disabilities; for the very good organisation of persons with disabilities is a condition that persons with disabilities are successful in representing and achieving their interests against national and other public authorities and institutions. However, we would somehow welcome more meaningfully the fact that the proposalr in the concept would follow a little more closely the first purpose of this law, that disability organisations primarily represent the interests of their members and only then, outlying, further organising, the interest of all persons with disabilities. This is how he brought the law into existence so that everyone and each individual will represent all the disabled in Slovenia, and this is often very disturbing from experience. It is essential that the proposal of this law, which establishes fundamental rules and status relations within the system of organised persons with disabilities, is followed immediately by other urgently needed laws in the field of disability, and we think first of all about the law on humanitarian organisations - the institution of the law is the Ministry of Health - and the law on the equalization of the possibility of persons with disabilities. This should also be followed by a certain amendment or amendments to the FIHA rules and the FIHA rules and conditions for the use of FIHA funds. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that all of this can be done in a relatively short time. This is particularly the case with the Humanitarian Organizations Act due to the immediate need to establish new FIHA bodies. Starting with the adoption of the proposed law, this is the law on disability organisations, and the further adoption of the necessary rules already mentioned, it will be possible to implement the disability protection transparently, which we can say is quite good in the Republic of Slovenia so far, and should be framed as expected by all persons with disabilities and the society of Slovenia. Thank you very much. Of course we'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Janez Drobnič for the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u105	Hello, everyone in the hall. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the Disability Organizations Act - the government has introduced a law on disability organisations, which, according to the content, would be difficult to defend that the text is directed at the widest benefit of persons with disabilities, and in particular to institutionalise those organisations that have been created since the previous system, i.e. within the framework of the Socialist Union of the Working People. The proposal has been put into adoption by the Government primarily due to pressure from some influential individuals who, through those organisations, have too many partisan interests. Such a text sets up an organization over an individual with disabilities. It must be said that they do not know such a law in Europe. However, they know the legislation governing charities and humanitarian organisations with the aim of providing them with an appropriate place in civil society or in the third sector at the expense of various facilities, but at the same time they adequately address the use of these funds for the right purposes, the imposition of free resources, the level of remuneration of officials and management. There's no such thing as listening to us, so that's what happens to us. Obviously, in view of the last amendments I have tabled, there has also been a willingness in the National Assembly to regulate this area. What is the antagonism of this marriage? Proponents of this law interpret the issue of integration as a key issue. And this marriage is segregating and we're on our way. Registration of persons with disabilities, paraplegics and so on. Registration of companies from which it is demonstrated to which persons with disabilities this organisation is intended, which is also part of the roputary. This law is quite in the function of dividing funds from the Foundation in order to cement the existing situation and reject the democratic processes that are also urgently needed in this area. We are blinded if we feel that this law is not in the function of allocating funds. These organizations are quite dependent on the foundation. And next thing you know, it's antagonism. We don't know what kind of intervention the law became in the acquis program. This is not what Europe requires. A series of referendum initiatives show that everything is going on behind old barricades and with an old way of thinking. There is no disability in the foreground, an individual with his constitutional rights, and a desire for independent life. This law tries to subdue an individual to an organization. Also from material obtained from foreign institutions regarding the government programme, we can track the following. The proposed law uses the medical model of disability, which is already exceeded, which limits the rights of persons with disabilities - this is outside the European Union's direction. Individuals' rights to self-determination are too limited and do not follow European legislation and practice. Certain indents and provisions are too pro-hibitive and do not correspond to European legislation and a number of other comments. Since the law is in the process of adoption due to the influence of some individuals, our efforts in Nova Slovenije are to eliminate problematic provisions and through amendments, some have also been adopted, to mitigate the most problematic effects. It must be said that they do not know such a law in Europe. However, they know legislation that regulates NGOs and humanitarian organisations. The Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations also shows the antagonisms that are reflected: one and the same persons decide to acquire funds, use of funds, control. The recipients of the funds shall be operators and supervisors at the same time. They don't even dream of a conflict of interest in this area. Disability organisations acquire most of the funds from the budget, either through concession fees, from the gambling which the State has renounced or from state resources, that is through tendering. Our country hardly knows the true foundations and funds, so those that would acquire funds from citizens directly. This is an additional reason for such a situation where the fight for state money is fought. The application of other non-state sources would reduce current tensions, open up room for the management and participation of other people, particularly humanitarian tendencies. The drafter of the marriage text, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, proposes to obtain [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] If you'll just let me finish my thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u106	Please, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u107	To gain the status of a disability organisation of a society that has been implementing a specific social programme for at least three years. In our opinion, this is a purely discriminatory provision. Of course, it is now a proposal to withdraw this, which we believe is most appropriate. The most problematic is representativeness - to apply disability registers after individuality, after disability - this is not in accordance with European legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you. The views of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group are followed. I'm asking my friend Barovich, is it because he's not here? This has exhausted the views of the parliamentary groups and brings us to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 16.10.2002. Before this, I would like to remind you that the debate is announced by parliamentary groups: Liberal Democrats of Slovenia 5 minutes, Social Democratic Party 15 minutes, United List of Social Democrats 15 minutes, Slovenian People's Party 5 minutes, Nova Slovenija 10 minutes and Slovenian National Party 10 minutes and government 5 minutes. So you'll know how to navigate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the LDS to Article 9. Who wants a word? Comrade Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u109	The amendment to an existing article by the Liberal Democracy and the United List of Social Democrats could be understood as an attempt to mitigate a rigorous provision so that it is not possible to invest in a profitable activity. I don't think that's necessary. If disability organisations carry out their mission and at the same time carry out the task of distributing funds, implementing programmes, and this is clearly stated, then they are the operators for which the funds are originally received, because otherwise it is only a transfer of investments or money coming from other addresses to a third legal person. At all, as we can see from the examples, I will not repeat them, because you will say that you are constantly one and the same, how you get involved with profit issues, how you manage antagonistic activities, with antagonisms of interest. In short, the existing provision allows disabled companies to be excluded. Disability companies, however, are established by their nature, on the basis of the company law, but also by the law on the training and employment of persons with disabilities, where the purpose of the establishment of disabled companies is employment, not profit creation. In short, this would make it clear that disability companies fall within the circle of so-called non-profit companies. However, this will have to be clarified by amending the Law on the Training and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. This law, as I believe, has been known since 1976 to be corrected in terms of the modern and current situation of the market system and the formation of a different structure of society. Well, I don't see the need to bring it in myself. Things are going to get complicated and they're actually going to happen the same way that we used to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you. Apology. The amendments to Article 9 have been made to two groups of Members, along with the LDS, by the United Nations Group of Members, so that I will be consistent. Thanks for understanding. Does anyone want to continue to discuss this amendment, this article? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 9 and the amendment to Article 9. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u111	This Article refers to the conditions which society must fulfil in order to obtain the status of a disability organisation. Point 3 states that society must successfully implement at least one specific social programme. In point 5, this condition transforms into a plural - the same article. That is, "implementing special social programmes". We believe that this is a misunderstanding or a lack of consistency in the article. If we ask society to perform before it becomes a disability organization, at least one special social program, then we cannot ask it in the same breath to implement the plural - "special social programmes".
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. Does anyone else want a word on this amendment to Article 12? Maybe the government wants a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The explanation of the amendment to Article 12 is not in line with the text of the amendment, as the condition for status is the implementation of at least one specific social programme. Otherwise, all the social programmes implemented by a disability organisation in the public interest should be implemented for members and non-members, because the implementation of programmes for members and non-members is a matter of public interest. Therefore, the Government does not support this amendment and we believe that this point of this Article should remain in the text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on Article 12? Thank you. I conclude the debate on Article 12. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party to Article 16. Anybody want a word? First of all, Comrade Petty Officer. Mr. Jerovšek too? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u115	I think that the explanation clearly states: "If a single society has gained status independently and independently of membership in relation to membership, this status may not be extinguished upon entry and exit from the union." In fact, if someone has thus acquired it, it is not possible for him to withdraw this status by disbanding the relationship; it is logical and legal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you. Anyone else? I'll give you my word one more time and you'll have five minutes together.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The amendment does not support Article 16 because this is not the case where the company has acquired a status where it has only exercised a role, but is a case where a disability organisation is exempted or a disability organisation which has established the status of a disability organization with the same role as the association and this is also evident from the same decision. In this case, a new decision is, of course, necessary. However, it is true that such a disability organisation that has come out alone can maintain the status of a disability organisation and can also maintain the relationship, but this must be established by a new act. That is why the government does not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 16 and the amendment to this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? My friend Brenčič first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Well, personally I'm not much of an adjective, but under given circumstances or given arguments this is sometimes necessary. Perhaps in Article 18 of the amended proposal of this Act the very term 'number', which might have been different with the second term - whether it would have been a 'list' or something like that. There may also be a somewhat logistical problem in this article with regard to the relative presence of individual members from one disability organisation to another and so on. However, I believe that the number or list required to register an individual disability organisation is not something that would be misleading or ill-intentioned; in this context, I understand it perfectly well. In any case, it is not in any way to the detriment of people or persons with disabilities, given their rights, to their equality of citizens in a society. However, I know that it would be good at this point to overcome the existing situation or to account daily on this number, which some have witnessed for the past six years. Interestingly, it is precisely those disabled organisations who somehow object to the fact that, as a condition, the number or list of members of the invalid organisation for registration in the register would also be opposed to those who constantly operate or use this numerical indication against another organisation. I have already said in my opening address to the Group that it would be very good if we succeed with this law a little bit, I would say, to overcome some existing situation which is bad in this context. It is a pity that some people constantly take the right to represent all persons with disabilities somehow because of their numbers, while others, due to a slightly smaller number, should not, I don't know, have some declaratory rights if they don't already have the real rights they do. That's why I don't think it's bad if the number stays. However, if a better term is found, if the term itself is the number of disruptions, it can also be corrected in the preparation of the third reading proposal. But I don't think there's anything wrong with staying. Therefore, I will not support the amendment to Article 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u121	I have always opposed this chapter of representativeness. Now, if this chapter is representativeness inside, then there must be clear rules of the game, how will membership be determined, how 33% or I don't know what percentage. This will have to be done on executive data. When this is introduced, then the number of people with disabilities and even lists should appear or at least the number should be accurate. I mean, it's like if we were building, I don't know, first it was building a bunker, and then putting windows on the bunker. There's a line on the bunker, and there's windows on the house. That's how these amendments were made. These are bad amendments. Of course, to an undignified chapter on representativeness then, whatever comes, it is illogical. And that's not right. It should be in here. There's gonna be a fight. You will have problems as an administrative authority, as a ministry of who to assign representation to, according to the exact number. I'm sure I'll tell you that. In fact, because some are members of several societies and are also affected repeatedly or with various disabilities. This is gonna be a sea of trouble.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u122	Thank you. I give the floor to Ms Danica Simšič for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. However, I would like to point out that we are now in the amendment to Article 18, which is an integral part of that part of the bill which defines the status of the disability organisation and not the status of representation. This chapter begins only with the following, this is Article 19. That's the first piece of information that's good for us if we know him. The second question is, of course, whether or not the register should contain accurate information on the number of members. Given that, in Article 2, we have adopted a provision that a disability organisation is a society or association of societies, the establishment of such a disability organisation is in fact conditioned by a minimum number, namely three people who can set up a society and this is in fact the only condition defined by the Social Act as a condition for registration in a register. However, I cannot imagine what this would mean when data on the number of members of a disability organisation can change weekly, monthly or daily, so every day, every week, the competent authority should issue a new decision on this disability organisation several times a month. I find this unacceptable from an operational point of view, and secondly, if we pull a parallel, if I skip, like Comrade Drobnič jumped into the field of representativeness, even in trade unions there is no condition for the number of members entered in the register, and I simply do not know whether then we should also enter the names, surnames and addresses in the register. It is important that the disability organisation is defined as a society to satisfy these conditions, and then, of course, the competent authority, the competent ministry below, when we also talk about representativeness, of course, sees the rights to the lists, etc., to see whether the conditions you have already discussed and which are not the point, of course, of this amendment to Article 18. I therefore advocate, as we have also proposed with the Liberal Democracy, that this sixth point, which expressly requires that the number of persons with disabilities and the number of their legal representatives who are members of a disability organisation be entered in the Register of Disabled Organisations, I propose this provision and advocate that it be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you. And once again, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u125	We didn't get any cleaner. At the time of admission to the register of a disability organisation, data on the number of persons with disabilities by the type of disability and the number of persons that this society or organization has will have to be shown in order to determine the percentage. Based on mathematics, both numbers should be available. On this basis, representation or non-representativeness will also be issued. And so, in this way, it will have to be determined, otherwise there will be no findings. Otherwise, the numbers on representation are, as a percentage, irrelevant and nothing more. Do you know why this is necessary? To protect those who will not have this status so that they can look inside, because the register should be public, that's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this article? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 18. We are moving to a debate on Article 19 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party to this Article. Mr. Cuckoo and then Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u127	This article speaks, of course, of the representative disability organisation representing persons with disabilities. This is said to represent the interests of all persons with disabilities, recognise these interests and also represent them in dialogue with the State. Here's the question. Who, how will this representation take place, because some disabled members of several disability organisations. Nearly a thousand disabled persons are also involved in other disability organisations in addition to the Union of Disabled Persons in Slovenia. In addition to the Union of Blind and Disabled Slovenia, 250 are also involved in other disability organisations. In most cases, however, disability organisations do not even have information about their members, let alone those who are members of other disability organisations. Indeed, it is perfectly normal for individual disability organisations to represent also diametrically different interests. If not elsewhere, especially in the allocation of funds, and in the exercise of their rights, sometimes at the expense of the rights of other disability organisations. Will the association of blind and visually impaired thus represent the interests of paraplegics? Obviously. This is the intention of the proposer. Representing interests after a long time and beyond as foreseen by this law will certainly be the source of many unnecessary complications and conflicts between disability organisations. If a representative disability organisation is able to represent the interests of all persons with disabilities, it means that it will be able to self-articulate or define the needs and wishes of other persons with disabilities and other disability organisations other than its members. In the field of dialogue of people with disabilities with the country, we are looking forward to a strange democracy and a strange way of identifying the wishes and needs of people with disabilities. If the law gives some disabled organisations the power to represent the interests and needs of all persons with disabilities, including those who do not or do not wish to be members of them because they have different views. If an individual disability organisation wishes only to participate in a dialogue with the State and is therefore willing to join a representative organisation, a representative disability organisation will be able to lay down all the conditions or to briefly reject the association on the government side. When the Society for the Theory and Culture of Handicap wanted to be included in the SIOS, only this one replied that they should first withdraw their amendments to the law on disabled organisations in proof of kindness and honesty. Indeed, in accordance with the following Article, the disability organisation will acquire representative status only if it includes more than 33 per cent of persons with disabilities, for the same type of disability or for the same legal or social status. The law will therefore allow only two representative disability organisations for each type of disability or legal status of persons with disabilities. Therefore, an untasteful competition in obtaining more than a third of the disabled, a certain type of disability or legal status is expected. In determining the condition 33% is therefore expected to be serious complications, as the law gave up the right to require a list of persons with disabilities to demonstrate the number of members. The Republic name lists by category and type of disability, at least as regards disabled workers, exist, if not elsewhere, on the disability committees of the SPIZ. Health services also have a list of patients by diagnosis, injury and poisoning through diabetes and heart attack to addiction and attempted suicide in accordance with the Health Care Databases Act. However, membership in the individual disability organisation cannot be verified by the Ministry. It is expected that, in competition to achieve the status of representativeness, the individual disability organisations will report an unbased high number of their members. As in the 1997 elections to the State Council, in order to achieve a sufficient number of electors, 10 times the number of professional workers was mentioned as compared to 1992. Some have announced to the Republican Election Commission the number of their members for the number of professional workers because there is no data verification mechanism. If the law is adopted, as proposed, without our amendment, even many existing national disability organisations will not be able to obtain representation because they do not have individual membership. Individual membership is mainly held by local and regional societies, and again they cannot gain representative status, as they cannot include more than 33% of disabled persons at national level. Let me finish. The majority of disputes and perceptions between disability organisations are at the expense of the number of members, the number of members of the individual disability organisation and who it represents. Most of the disputes, I emphasize. With a 33% clause, we've further deepened this conflict and solved it in nothing. Let me point out that even a name list of union members is required for the union to obtain representative status. When Fides applied for representative status, he had to submit to the Ministry a list of doctors, his members, to obtain this status. I think it would not be bad if the state had otherwise taken a stand against the problems and conflicts between the disability organisations. But it seems that even the bill-maker and you, honourable Members, want to preserve this conflict point, which will deepen and tighten. It is probably true that sharing and ruling is the best way to manage and solve problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you. Next reported, Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u129	I just want to replicate the respectable Mr. Tsukati. Indeed, it is often very common to refer to this law, too often, to disputes between disability organisations, whether associations or organisations themselves. I would just like to explain that the disputes arising between societies and between organisations do not stem from the law and not from the fact how many members have an individual society or individual disability organisation. In particular, disputes arise and are largely due to the conditions laid down in the financing requirement and the method of financing these societies. However, under certain conditions, the number of members in individual companies is also indicated. And the same thing I would like to say is that the case that you said was possible in one way and that it was happening in Slovenia, that one disabled person could be part of a larger number of societies and that you also found it within your own practice. This is quite possible, certainly, because societies are purely voluntary organisations and anyone can join this society if they have an interest in working in this society and, of course, the positions of this society. It is also true that there may be one disabled person who unfortunately has several types of disability. It can also be a blind paraplegic, you know, quite specific. But this is not the cause of such conflicts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you. My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I do not want to change the concept set by the proposer in article 19 but the generally established fact in the world is: the organisation system, if we want - whatever it is - to function, must be set up in a pyramid. By giving us the possibility that every invalid organization would represent everything and then everything, we have broken the system of pyramid organization and leadership, and that is why things will be thrown out of this pyramid in practice. I would certainly take the concept by further form, a higher form, an organised national council, which takes over what we want to give to every disability organisation. It may work in practice, but from what I've seen, I would say, experience I fear is not the best. But it is now impossible to change this concept in essence on this article, but I think it would be better if the concept were set somewhat differently. First, each organisation cares and represents the interests of its members, only then goes this building of this pyramid forward, ever higher. This is how the country is organised after all, and I certainly support representativeness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you. I will only warn myself that the debate announced will begin slowly. I give my word to my colleague Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u133	Such a model of representation is narrow and non-European. It's a medical model. The amendment we have just tabled opens up the possibility of representing others. After all, Slovenia is small and thus ensures the openness of space, the possibility of free representation, what an individual decides. If we have already entered this circle of representation, then it must be done in such a way that it is manageable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? I'm still giving the government a chance to discuss this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much. With regard to the amendment to Article 19, which deals with the role of representative disability organisations, they would point out that the disability organisation represents the interests of a group of persons with disabilities, not all persons with disabilities and not members of the disability organisation, which was heard in the debate, in an area for which they themselves are defined in the basic act. However, Article 20 of the bill provides for representative disability organisations to be those operating at national and not local level, which the amendment provides for. With regard to the content of the second paragraph of the proposed amendment, we believe that it is already more appropriately regulated in the second paragraph of Article 19 of the amended law, with the amendment adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you. Can we conclude a discussion on Article 19? Thank you. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Excuse me! I give my word to Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I would just like to point out that the content of the proposed text of the amendment of the two parliamentary groups complements the text which has already been amended in the Committee's consideration. And it is here that this last paragraph reads so that the status of a disability organisation cannot be the basis for obtaining funds, and of course in a negative interpretation of this text this would mean that a disability organisation which has the status of that organization cannot participate in funds from the budget and other public resources. Therefore, we replace the text with the text "not to be an exclusive condition". In this way, of course, the text of this text is fully explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you. Anyone else? I can now conclude the debate on Article 28. We are moving on to a debate on Article 30 and the amendment to this Article, as well as the LDS Member Club and the United Social Democrats Group. Comrade Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy and the United List are essentially slightly correcting my amendment that I tabled. And I must say, as far as this third paragraph is concerned, I'll give you the right. You have a better solution, more accurate and consistent, because there are no more guarantees, no more government guarantees for banks. And as legal dictions. Besides, we know what it's like to be insured. That the state is only still - in some sense remains. But I'm sure that's a better one. But I don't know what the standards for disabled organisations are. So accounting standards for disabled organisations that adopt an authorised organisation. I would only suggest that this should not be accepted in some debate circle, but rather that the country might accept it at the suggestion of those who are specialists or who know the field. So that something like this doesn't go out again, which won't be like that, which won't be flat or round, and it won't be able to measure anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? As far as I can tell, no. I conclude the debate on Article 30 and the amendment. This concludes the debate on the amendments. And at 19.20 today's vote, we will vote on these amendments. Thank you all for participating in the debate. I'm breaking this agenda. At 15.35 we will continue our meeting with agenda item 14, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on victims of war violence. Thank you and a short break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u141	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the meeting and move on to 14. Agenda item - Second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Victims of War Violence The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed France Pukšič. With regard to this law, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I first give the floor to Mr Franz Puksic, the representative of the proposers, for an additional explanation of the bill. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State and Secretary of State! The purpose of the drafters of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Victims of War Violence was threefold: to include, by means of the proposed amendment of the law, forced mobilizers, pensioners who have retired under the law on the age of farmers and children born to parents in camps after 15 February 1945; to persons who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and receive a widow's or family pension after a person who meets the conditions under the law for recognition of the status of the victim of war violence, and to allow them to apply for the re-pension of the widow or family pension of the deceased pensioner for the recognition of the time of war violence and the time of return to his retirement. The proposed amendment of the law would partially correct the injustices committed to victims of war violence, although we are aware that they cannot be fully corrected or eliminated. In fact, I was very surprised at the fact that the government coalition had taken advantage of the possibility of Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, without discussion, proposed to the National Assembly that the law should be rejected in these three amendments. If we look at the opinion of the legislative and legal service, it says that the first amendment to the proposed amendments to the law should also be written more accurately, which could be done, or is talking about the fact that it should be written" from 15 February to 15 May 1945. That would, of course, be possible with the amendment the committee would take. And as proponents, of course, we would not object. As has already been said, with the second paragraph of Article 128, of course, there was no debate at all. Secondly, the legal service points out that it does not systematically compare these categories of forced mobilizers, farmers' pensioners under the law on the age insurance of farmers with the category of forced mobilizers referred to in Article 16a of the Act. And it is clear, of course, that those who retired before 31.12. 1983 have, of course, retired in accordance with the legislation available to them. In fact, the way farmers were insured lasted from 1972 until 31.12.1983. Then, with 1.1.1984, the insurance method changed and, of course, it differs significantly. Of course, these farmers were not affected. And the third amendment that would be in this law would be an option, i.e. enforcement, to recalculate and enforce the right to recognise the pension age for a partner who is therefore already retired. After all, if, of course, someone has the status of a victim of war violence, there is also a reason, I believe, respected colleagues and colleagues, for the previous death rather than for a longer life. I propose that this law, however, be dealt with and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Potrč will first present the opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Group of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats agrees that the proposed law of the first-signed Member of Mr Franz Puksic is not a case for further consideration. The War Violence Victims Act has been completed and amended six times since its adoption. Three times, among other things, on our proposals. In particular, it included new circumstances or conditions justifying the granting of the status of victims of war violence and rights under this status. We are also aware today that all issues have not yet been adequately addressed. And this is also why the government has prepared a specific analysis of the appropriateness of the solutions in the law and has tried to record the issues that still need to be addressed in the law. The Government has also provided us with a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the law covering these issues, and in the UK Group, we support and believe that it is right in the law to further address the issue of recognition of the status of a child whose parents were killed by 15 May 1945 or return to their homeland, without a specific condition for three months - it is said that this 15 February is not the date - that the status of war violence is recognised to the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who was a member of the Yugoslav Army between 6 April and 17 April, and that the status of the victim of war is already recognised to all civilians with disabilities by virtue of their invalidity status under the War Disability Act. All these issues have been discussed so far with various amendments to the law and there are, I would say, valid re-assessments and additions in the government as well. These proposals will provide an opportunity and an opportunity to assess any other proposals to finally cover as much or all cases as possible justifying the granting of the status of the victim of war. However, our conviction is that the two proposals, the essential two proposals, which are the content of Mr Pukšič's proposal, do not cover this eligibility criterion. Firstly, it is not acceptable that only the beneficiaries of the German army, the beneficiaries of the farm pension, should be granted a monthly pension, nor should the beneficiaries of family or widow's pensions, who have obtained the right from the law after the pension, be granted a new family and widow's pension. The reasons for the inadmissibility of these proposals were sufficiently convincingly stated by the Government in its position. We therefore stress that we do not oppose further amendments to the law on victims of war violence. We will do our utmost to eliminate some of the weaknesses of marriage. However, such proposals do not include the law of Mr Puksic. This law would only deepen misunderstandings and, in our view, create a new unjustifiable distinction. That is why it must be rejected, at least we will vote in this way, and at the same time in the College of the President of the National Assembly, and also to do everything possible to have the law drawn up by the Government dealt with in the following month, which will give us a basis for dealing with issues that are not yet properly settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franz Pukšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u146	Say good-bye again! In the opinion of the government, which she wrote - says in the amendment of the law, in Articles 1 and 2: "Forcible mobilisers, pensioners under the law on the age insurance of farmers may, however, require recognition of a special pension period based on the period of forced mobilisation and the time until return to their homeland, but on this basis they cannot demand a re-pension. This can only be achieved by those who have retired after 1.1.1984 under the general rules on pension and disability insurance." Yes, precisely because these rural pensioners who have retired until 31.12.1983 can only demand and cannot re-apply to the pension, that is why this part of the law had to be amended. Of course, we did not pretend to take all the knowledge of this world, with the amendments we would tabled, of course, we could contribute to the amendment of this law. Unfortunately, however, we note that either in this government coalition to a small number of pensioners who were retired before 31.12.1983, there is not much or, of course, there is a strategy that any good initiative by the opposition and the good will that any injustice that should have been settled long ago is corrected - so you do not want to do so. It is only in this way that it is possible to interpret the rejection of this bill. Our second change, which is related to those - that is to reduce that three-month period, but says: by 15 May 1945, is, of course, technically and legally, even in the opinion of the legal service, completely acceptable. The third right to change that we are talking about is that there is no reason why there is no reason for the beneficiaries of either the widow's or the family's pension of the deceased holder or the invalid's pension not to be able to apply in the institution for pension and disability insurance and to prove that the deceased institution fulfils, of course, the conditions for recognition of the status of the victim of war violence, that the time of his return to his homeland is recognised in the pension period under Article 13, and that on this basis they propose a re-dose of the widow's and the family's pension. Now it's a ton, and because it's not possible, it's possible if the legislator says so, if the legislator breaks down like that, then it's possible to do it. Therefore, in our party, the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, we will oppose such a proposal for a decision as proposed by the mother's working body. I hope that someone else will do so - and this would only contribute to the addition, with other amendments, of course, they would only complement this law and these distinctions mainly for those who will be entitled to it, from demographically threatened areas, from rural areas; what has not actually been possible for them now or all of the years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Mario Gasparini. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have taken into account the opinion of our legal service, as well as the Government's view of this law, although we do not think that this is the last novel we have heard today that this is the sixth, it is likely that the seventh and possibly the eighth, and we have come to the conclusion that, therefore, taking into account the government and the legal service, we will not support this law and that we will vote in favour of the decision of the home labour body. In doing so, it is important to stress what has already been said today, mainly by the proposaler, not to take into account some of the things already in the law that we have adopted years ago and then have amended and amended, such as the duration, which is an uninterrupted coercive measure, which should hold for all victims, no less. Also the date we set ourselves, 15.5.1945, when the occupation in Slovenia, if you want, has stopped, and I don't think it's right that we're playing with this right now. Even if we had adopted an article that actually speaks about pensions and so on, peasants and so forth, I think we would have set up some inequality higher-and-higher others that have already settled these things. Doses of pensions for elderly pensioners would not, of course, be in line with other pensions, and I don't think that's acceptable. This novel does not take into account that it is not possible for legal successors - so those who would like to apply for a victim who is already deceased, I mean this thing, this solution that appears here, I don't think that's good. But they can be right if the procedure is already under way. That would be, we've already agreed to that. So there are some things that are not acceptable in our group. Because of the above, and especially because of the opinion of our legal service, Parliament. We therefore also consider that the law is not a suitable basis for further consideration. And we're going to vote, so, for the conclusion of the parent's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u150	Since we have not yet achieved international standards on the regulation of war victims in Slovenia, there is a constant need to harmonise the existing, that is, the applicable law. It gives the impression that it is a constant patching of a poorly prepared law based on controversial facts that are not consistent with various events during the war. And these facts come in drops a day, despite the constant awareness of that part of the people who benefit from these matrixes, absolutely concrete benefits. So the need for this change was also mentioned by Ambassador Potrč's colleague that the six amendments were in the procedure. This shows there's something wrong with this marriage. The existing law obviously has problems with ideological background. What exactly is the phenomenon of this marriage? Like many others based on wrong frameworks and assumptions, it deepens the inequality of those who would be entitled to the same legal position and are different, and this has a bad impact on the social co-existence of people. Simply put with the case. If he became a disabled child because of the violent acts of fascists, he can exercise his rights. But if this was caused by the communist authorities, he doesn't have those rights. This further strengthens people’s awareness of social inequality and the illegality of laws. We have one more thing in our legislation, and we should seriously ask ourselves what this has done and what we will do. The proposal drawn up by a fellow Member seeks to regulate certain inequalities and disputed solutions. His purpose has been corrected. Therefore, we do not oppose the proposal of the law. However, we are aware that in the law that is subject to amendment, Mr Puksic, there are still a number of unresolved issues arising from controversial ideological matrixes. Which are necessary arrangements. This inhibits our co-existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Moreover, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on victims of war violence is, in principle, a good idea. I am sure that many things need to be changed, but in the Slovenian National Party we do not think that this may be the most appropriate change. It is true that the mobilisers in the German army must, for example, be taken into account in the law, but it is important to ask how the mobilising societies have spoken to the German government. I think that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs should prepare such a law or amendment of this law and take into account those matters which must be taken into account and which have also been taken into account by fellow Member Puksic, but in a different way. In view of the way these gentlemen have spoken to the German government, what they have asked of the German government and what promises they have actually made. The fact is that the talks were held at an unequal level and that the negotiators on our part were, in fact, more listeners than those who demand the correction of the injustices by the German government. The German government is working for its own interests and will work for its own interests. That is why I think that the Slovenian government should take over the discussions on this through the Ministry, which I mentioned earlier. I therefore feel that such a law or such a bill, which is currently under consideration, is not most appropriate. Intention, desire and desire for this marriage are commendable. However, the performance is not the best. Therefore, I think it would be reasonable for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to go to the hearing and review of this matter in order to process this matter in order to prepare and agree, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, and, as I have already said, on the other, on the other hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, and in the case, as I have already said, on the other, on the one hand, on the other, on the other hand, on the part of the German government. We will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party. However, we support the intention, the desire and purpose that Pukšič has put before us with this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We will vote on the proposal for a decision of the home working body in accordance with the meeting's time frame today at 19.20. I therefore interrupt this item and thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation. At 4:10 p.m., we are moving on to the second reading of the bill on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language. It's 4:10 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u154	Dear Members and honourable Members, representatives of the government, Mr Minister! We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SLOVENIAN SIGNAL LANGUAGE LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr Vlado Dimovski, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. We prepared the draft law for second reading in accordance with the views of the National Assembly adopted at the first reading of the law in October 2001. So we have studied the composition and membership of the world, and we have changed this by increasing the number of members of the world on the proposal of the Association of Interpreters for Slovenian Sign Language and the proposal of the Association of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia Associations, additional members are two deaf persons. This will increase the impact of users, that is, deaf people, in deciding on important issues and in caring for the unification of the Slovenian Sign Language. One member of the Council will also be proposed by the Ministry of Justice to coordinate the sign language of the judicial interpreters and one member will be proposed by the Social Chamber as a competent Chamber of Interpreters as expert staff in the field of social protection. After studying and coordinating with the Slovenian Sign Language Association, the association of deaf and deaf Slovenian societies, the Social Chamber and the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education have not changed. However, the important tasks and public powers are given to the Association of Interpreters for the Slovenian Sign Language, which in the preparation of the draft law for the second reading was formed as a separate legal person, the institution with which the Ministry responsible for Disability Protection will conclude a contract for the exercise of public powers. The written text of the bill also recognises the right of interpretation in their language for deaf persons of the Hungarian and Italian national communities. The drafting of the text of the bill also took into account the proposal that deaf persons with student or student status should be granted the right to a higher number of hours of interpretation due to increased education-related needs. We also support the proposal to increase to 30 hours and, in exceptional cases, to 100 hours. However, on the committee responsible, the adopted text of the bill reduces this number of hours. We therefore support the proposed amendment of the LDS members' groups and the United List of Social Democrats, and we expect that you will also be supported by Members, because the current text of Article 13 makes a false reference to the first paragraph of Article 10 instead of Article 10, which speaks of 10 hours of interpretation according to the opinion of the deaf person who is increasing with the proposed amendment. Dear Members and Members! I propose that with the amendments to the draft law on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language be adopted, and if possible, in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, you shall vote in the third reading of the bill already at the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities discussed the proposal of the law below at its 23rd regular session, 8.10. In addition to the representatives of the proposer, a representative of the legislative and legal service, representatives of the Union of Interpreters of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia, representatives of the Association of Interpreters of Slovenia and representatives of the Office of Disabled Persons and Patients of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. In accordance with Rule 126 and Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons held a debate and voted on the individual articles and proposals submitted by the amendments: the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats and the Member, Dr France Tsukati. The debate on Article 5 of the bill and the amendments tabled raised the view that a Chamber of Interpreters for Slovenian Sign Language would be established for interpreters, which the government also opposed for systemic reasons. The government supports the adoption of the bill as soon as possible, as this area needs to be regulated. In the debate on Articles 12 and 13 of the draft law, the members of the Committee, on the basis of a proposal by Dr Francet Tsukjat, adopted an amendment to the Committee, where the amendment increased the right of an interpreter to a deaf person in proceedings before public authorities, holders of public authority or public service providers, and in other life situations where deafness would constitute an obstacle to meeting its needs. They also increased the right of an interpreter to a deaf person who has student or student status due to additional educational needs. In the context of the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, the Committee adopted amendments to the amendments of the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats on 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 to the Section of the Slovenian Professional Council and Articles 24, 25 and 26. He did not accept the amendment of France Tsukati to Article 5, which was also somehow an amendment that changed the concept of the law with the other amendments to it, so further amendments to that proposal became irrelevant. The Committee also adopted its amendments to Articles 13 and 15. In addition, the Committee supported all the articles of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Danica Simšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Just for a little while. The bill before us regulates the rights of the deaf and deaf in the world of hearing. In fact, it is a law that erases the white or gray fox of one basic human need, the need for communication, or the need for communication. Sign language is a deaf and deaf medium that prevents isolation and allows them to participate more equally in society and the environment. Therefore, it will probably not be wrong to say that this is a civil law that needs to be adopted as soon as possible. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the law is a complementary bill on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language, which defines both the sign language and the rights of the deaf, not only to the use of this language, but also to the interpreter, including the role of the Association of Interpreters, we support. We also support the world solutions for Slovenian Sign Language and we will also support the amendments that we have tabled together with the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. However, we do not support the amendments of New Slovenia's parliamentary groups and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. And if I can briefly summarize the amendment that we will support. The first is Article 12 and is of a more editorial nature. The right to an interpreter to be provided by the State authority in communication with the deaf and the deaf, to extend or transfer to local authorities. The amendment to Article 13 defines, in accordance with the discussion on the parent body, the right to the number of hours of interpreters which may be exercised by deaf persons up to a maximum of 30 hours per year and up to a maximum of 100 hours per year. And in the end. The Group of Ambassadors of the United List of Social Democrats also supports the proposal, which was finally expressed by Minister Dimovski in order to hold a third hearing at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonchev is not among us. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Surely there is no man in this room, and probably not outside this room, who would deny deaf people the right to communicate with the rest of the world, the right to an interpreter. Whenever these people find themselves, they face public service, either at the window of the municipal administration or by adopting the proposed amendment in the local community or in other public services such as social, health and the like. Definitely. And these purposes are very beautiful if, of course, there is a genuine desire to do so for these purposes; that is the problem. For again in this law, as in many other social laws, we create and guarantee beautiful rights, but in such a form that they will be impossible to realize. Why will it not be possible to do so? Because it imposes the law on all the public sector to provide an interpreter at any time to a deaf person. You know this for yourself, it will be impossible, especially in that part of the public service that very rarely encounters a case of deafness. And, of course, in the introduction to the first reading, the applicant predicted that public authorities, public authorities and public services would have to plan additional resources, saying that some additional funds are planned. How will this public service receive these additional funds from the State? However, there will certainly not be any service and service of deaf people as it could if we took the initiative to pay all services directly through the interpreters' association by having a system where a disabled person can have an interpreter, a personal chosen interpreter, and when he needs one, call him or send him a “mail” or whatever arrangements are made with him, use his or her services and prove to him that the interpreter has done this service, and with this proof, directly from the Ministry, receives an interpreter's payment through the interpreters' association. That's the only way things would work. But obviously we have a method, a very good method, to ensure social rights, but to put them in such a package that people will not be able to open them in particular. For this reason, I am, of course, disappointed by the members of the government coalition that they have in no way supported the proposal to provide a system of payment for interpreters.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Young Slovenia Party are not among us. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much. At first reading, in the old business system, some of us said that this law could be peacefully adopted in a quick procedure. It is not only because it binds or directs us to its adoption with all three commands on equal opportunities and non-discrimination, but also through resolutions, and most importantly, everyday life. At that time, we also said that the law was almost consensual, so that it was aligned with both users and decision makers. We also said that it meant the proper implementation of constitutional rights to equal or equal education, to work, to inform, to social inclusion, in short, to ensure better integration of the deaf into the world of hearing. Deaf people think and learn visually, so sign language is a condition for understanding content; without it, the spoken language remains an empty word sequence. Thus, at first reading, it was pointed out that the proposal was too long on hold, making it possible that there was still a problem in the education of deaf and deaf people in regular schools. In the meantime there were still many positive additions, including a so-called dictionary or translator on CD. The second hearing on the parental committee opened and some soon closed, questions about the status or competence of associations of deaf, social chambers, professional councils, to these three basic points in the triangle or quadrilateral, if I add the ministry or government. There has also been a study of the possibility of the interpreters' association becoming a chamber. On the board, we decided for the most part that it was not necessary. Of course, the issues already referred to by my predecessor have been strongly debated as to how to provide for the financing of costs or the financial consequences arising from the provision of interpretation services. I think these issues will be closed today in a liberal democracy in such a way as to reject the solutions offered by the NSI and SDS Group. With regard to the question of financial implications, which should be questioned as to how far this country is able to realise them, only so much so that the law has financial implications that are to be provided in the budget or that are to the extent that public services are to be so severely burdened as we are afraid to. It is only 62 million tolars in 2003, 62 million tolars in 2004 and half of these funds in 2002. I believe that this is by no means an issue in this country, insofar as it wishes to ensure not only what it has committed itself to with its constitutional charter, but also, in so far as it considers its conscience and, of course, the equal treatment of its fellow citizens and fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much again for your word. The bill is a long-awaited and necessary act which essentially regulates the area, which in practice, thanks mainly to the interpreters of the Slovenian Sign Language, the Social Chamber and the associations of deaf and deaf Slovenia, is quite well served. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party Group welcomes and supports the law. Conceptually, the bill was boldly proposed. In June, due to the principle of subsidiarity, which is increasingly in place in the European area, and also due to the pure practicality of implementing the law, we would prefer to have interpreters of the Slovenian Sign Language organised in a professional chamber, which would also be given certain or necessary public powers, but, for the time being, the proposer has also provided for the association of interpreters or the association of interpreters as a legal person, which is also good for the current situation. I believe that we are somewhat out of time for the conceptuality of the law to be fully rectified from Article 5, but perhaps it would be good for us to take that time. One way or another, it is likely that soon we will be reintroduced into the system of organization or the association of interpreters. It is right that the amendment of the Committee is entrusted to the association, among others, with the concern of the development of the Slovenian Sign Language, since the association or interpreters are the most genuine knowledgeers of the sign language, with which they also face it directly. We will fully support the proposed legislation in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u167	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear government representatives! Allow me to give the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on this law. Slovenia fulfils a long-standing debt to those of our citizens who have been pushed more or less by hearing deprivation on the side of society. This is actually a test of our sociability, our society. It also means real shift in our practice. Moving towards better living, better integration, better opportunities for life, work and earning and education, to ensure better integration by hearing the obstacles. The statute of the Deaf Union states that sign language is universally recognized as the natural language and culture of the deaf, which enriches the nation’s heritage. And also in Slovenia this language was created, especially with the hard work of the deaf, family members themselves and everyone else who focused their efforts on helping this population. This heritage and language show solitude, wealth, and variety. For a long time, they have been obediently deprived of equal treatment in terms of assessment of physical impairment. This is still our remaining debt, which we must meet, even because of the principle of equality, equal treatment, as it is still considered that 100% of deafness is estimated at 80% of disability and thus, of course, ensuring a lower level of rights resulting from this assessment of physical impairment. So we're going to have to find the time needed to change this rule. In particular, good communication is a condition for integration and success in a modern globalisation society. Thus, shortness of mind, this depravity, a hearing disability, is one of the worst things for man, even though it may be hardly noticeable on the outside. In adopting this law, we have shown all the parties a great deal of coherence and undeniable efforts to regulate. A little has been caught up in the proposal, which would have already set up the contractors, interpreting it in a more modern and perspective-oriented form of assembly. At the same time, it would also give a transitional period for adjustment. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Perhaps we have run out of courage to make such a marriage. This would give us better opportunities for work, language development, the independence of operators and other things. It is certainly necessary to mention another flaw in the law. To ensure that the public authorities themselves provide for the financing of the necessary interpretation. This could put the state authorities in trouble. As we know, it exists in public finances or there are problems in public finances. And that due to financial inefficiencies or financial difficulties, deaf people would be hampered by fundamental human rights or the exercise of their fundamental rights and the use of their sign language, of course, means that they would not be provided with adequate assistance. The New Slovenia Group supports the adoption of this law because it advocates all those efforts in society that help people with difficulties to join the community.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, the competent ministry, colleagues, colleagues! I will not repeat what my colleagues and colleagues have said or what the rapporteur says. It is logical, in the Slovenian National Party, that the Constitution should in itself guarantee all the rights for which we are now forming the law. Or, in other words, it means that if we have to, let us form this law, but it seems a little late, too late. Thank God, the law is in front of us. In the light of the experience of some other European countries, I tend to refer very much to the Scandinavian countries, but I would only like to help create this law in the Slovenian National Party by alerting the Government, if, of course, there is anything we can do with a few, in our view, overly liberalised law, to one major flaw, which is, as far as we have examined this law. This is where and exactly how we will design, teach interpreters in the Republic of Slovenia. The required education is available in most countries, at least Finland, Denmark, Sweden, where all interpreters have the opportunity to study at one of their universities or university with a two-year or three-year study at the so-called high level. Well, I didn't see it in the law or in the interpretation of the law in any way. The second thought we have and we want to draw attention to is how we pay. I think this warning has already been given today. I don't know why or why. If we are able to hear any answers later, we will be very happy. In reviewing the explanation of this law, I became attentive, together with the colleagues of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, to the sentence that "a deaf person must submit a document which will give him the right to an interpreter". This is also part of our assessment of over-hypocraticism, because the constitution itself, I think, guarantees it to such persons and it does not seem right to me that we will now brand and mark people who we can say are living in some average line at some point. These are our comments. In any case, we will absolutely support the Slovenian Sign Use Act, and we will be pleased if our concerns and, of course, our observations and comments on possible simplification of certain procedures are taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 16.10.2002. Just to remind you - individual parliamentary groups have the following amount of time available: SDS 10 minutes, SLS 5 minutes, NSI 15 minutes, SnS 10 minutes and government 5 minutes. We are therefore moving on to a debate, which I am putting Article 11 and the amendment of the Members' groups of New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party to this Article in the debate. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. Well, the bill provides that in the first paragraph of Article 10, where the first paragraph states that the rights of deaf persons are guaranteed by an authority, whether national or local, and by a public authority, by a public service provider. The rights referred to in the second paragraph of Article 10 shall, however, be provided directly in agreement between the deaf person and the association of interpreters and shall be paid with the wolf. So, the proposer himself introduces the voucher system and takes it out without any problems, without organising a chamber, through the existing association, and with the sheepdogs, it is said, according to the order system, where this order can be used by the deaf person himself to request an interpreter, and this order then also constitutes the basis for payment. As I said, in the first paper, the proponent provided for certain funds necessary for the payment of interpreters. For this reason, we believe that it would also be possible, if, of course, we were to take these rights seriously, to guarantee the rights referred to in the first paragraph in the same way, so that the State would provide the means necessary for interpreters, directly, through the system of the ombudsmen, through the association of interpreters and not through such a highly dispersed public service, administrative authorities and so on. That is why we have proposed an appropriate amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u173	Therefore, in order for the legal provisions to be enforceable and rights to be truly accessible, this amendment to Article 11 is very much needed so that the law will not only be a dead letter on paper and will have difficulties for operators or users to acquire this right. In this way many conflicts may arise and the law will not achieve what it aims and purposes to achieve. We already have too many provisions in our legislation to date, which are difficult to enforce and mean only a letter on paper for citizens who cannot challenge it. If we are serious about helping people with disabilities to integrate, communicate with us, who hear us, then we need to have a serious relationship with the definitions and implementation of this. This particular concern and doubt about the enforceability of the provision has led us to submit these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tutta, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We do not support the proposed amendment because the text of Article 11 of the bill is much more binding than the text of the proposed amendment. The proposal of the law obliges the State authorities, local authorities, public authorities or public service providers to grant the rights of use of the sign language to deaf persons, while the amendment provides or proposes that they should only be able to do so, which could constitute a violation of the principle of equality in proceedings before those authorities. The proposed amendment also foresees that the interpreter of the deaf person is monitoring the person. A deaf person does not need a companion, for his problem is just communication and therefore needs an interpreter, not an escort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment and article 11? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and turn to the debate on Article 12 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party to this article and the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and the United List of Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendments to this Article. We are moving on to a debate on Article 13 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the Joint List Group. Anybody want a word? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I might like, if possible, a brief explanation. In fact, when I compare these two texts, i.e. the law in the first two paragraphs and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy and the Consolidated List, I am only interested in what specific reason the amendment applicants have stated that it has brought the deaf to light because of the additional needs of the students and students. Because I think, at least I understand differently that the 13th original article is a little bit more open. But I don't know. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u179	Yeah. Just now, my colleagues, who are helping me with my legal studies on the new rules of procedure, have told me that I have put them in a bit of a state of a state of embarrassment because I don't think I have time to report, but they can't answer me. So good. I will personally ask myself why and what this difference is and then I will decide how to vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I think that government representatives have some time left and that this explanation would also be welcome. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Article 13 refers to Article 10, first and second paragraphs of Article 10 of the Law. The first paragraph regulates the right of a deaf person to use sign language in proceedings before public authorities, local authorities and public authorities or public service providers. In such cases, deaf persons should be provided with the extent to which the deaf person needs them. Whether it is one hour or 20 hours a year depends on the service offered to deaf persons in these bodies. The second paragraph, however, discusses the need for deaf people in everyday life situations where they are hampered by communication. In fact, paragraph 2 introduces for the first time an individual right that a deaf person chooses when he feels inequitable in a dialogue in everyday life. And that's why she chooses this right by herself when she needs it. He also selects an interpreter from the list of interpreters himself. And she's paying herself with a chicken. However, the voucher is within hours, which is now proposed for 30 hours with the proposed amendment. The higher needs for these additional hours of interpreters, due to education-related needs, have been adopted by the State Assembly for pupils and students with a position at first reading. Because the population of students and students is the one who needs the most interpretation services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you very much for that answer. Well, because I would just like to say that it's hard to say yes or no in this decision, because I myself have warned about the alleged excessive red tape, but perhaps a little late, but I would also like to know whether it would be possible to arrange it in this country as elsewhere. For example, deaf persons are by no means self-paid when using interpreters. This would avoid a variety of 10, 30, 100 hours and so on. But apparently too late. Thank you very much for your explanation, Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? Since no, I conclude the debate and inform you that the assembly will hold the vote on the amendments at the following meeting at 7.20 p.m. in the framework of the votes of the assembly, and thus interrupt this item on the agenda. We will continue at 5 p.m. and 40 minutes with the consideration of item 16 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the implementation of fostering activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u185	Dear colleagues, representatives and representatives of the government! Continue treatment 16. Agenda items - Another defends the bill of enforcement. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs Dr Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Parenthood has a long tradition in Slovenia. The most children who do not live in their biological families are placed in this form of protection. Currently, about 1,300 children are in the care of about 500 foster families. The number of children placed in foster care is much higher than the total number of children placed in the training and educational institutions. In other words, if fostering in Slovenia was not as widespread as it is, we would certainly need significantly more institutional capacity immediately - for example, for the capacity of one institution of about 80 children, this would mean about 16 new institutions. In doing so, it should be stressed that the proposal does not affect the institution of foster care as a form of family-law protection for minors. This is regulated by the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. By means of legal provisions, we have operated on the content of the work and tasks of all participants, namely, foster parents and their families, foster parents and their biological families, and social work centres. The proposal for a law on the implementation of fostering activities lays down the conditions to be met by the person wishing to carry out the breeding activity, the procedure for obtaining authorisation to carry out the breeding activity, the conditions and procedure for carrying out the breeding activity as the sole profession, the rules for carrying out the breeding activity, the duties of the breeders and the tasks of the centres for social work in carrying out the breeding activity, and the financing of the breeding activity and certain other matters relating to the implementation of the law. With the proposal for a law on the implementation of fostering activities, we want to systematically regulate the implementation of fostering activities, with the aim of increasing the quality of implementation and thus the quality of single-parenting, with the main aim of providing children who enter foster care with the most appropriate treatment. Caring is not just a matter of finding a substitute family for a child who is temporarily unable to live with his parents for various reasons. Gretudi is responsible for finding a child a family where he will gain a positive family experience, which is repeatedly justified by the Institute of Nursing. For children, especially the youngest, who are not able to live in their own family for a short or long time, it is a great advantage if they can live and grow in the most similar form, which is to stay in a foster family. In a foster family, as in every family, certain family rules apply, roles are divided among family members, conflicts are resolved, work and obligations are shared, and feelings are present. These are indispensable experiences for the full and complete development of each individual. In order for foster families to be adequately prepared and able to provide adequate care for their children and to be able to help solve their child's distress and problems, appropriate support must be provided to foster families, both through regular cooperation between foster parents and professional workers of the centres and through training and education, which will be ensured through the adoption of this law. The proposal for a law provides for an increase in the amount of the award to the breeder and the guardianship of the foster, for which the funds are provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We have tied the amount of material costs to similar starting points, such as the binding of the amount of financial social assistance under the Social Protection Act and such benefits under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act. New funding is needed for education and training, which are also foreseen in the budget. Comparative calculations show that this law will increase the funding for material costs for foster parents by around 121 million SIT per year, and that overall the rewards of foster parents will increase by 85 million SIT per year, i.e. the total increase at annual level is around 206 million SIT. There is also a need for new funding for education and training. According to our estimates, there are about 10 million SITs per year. Allow me, finally, honourable Members and Members, to invite you to adopt the law, especially for two main reasons, for the first time - on the one hand, due to better implementation of foster care, such as the choice of foster families, training, active work after putting a child in foster care, working with biological parents, and in particular always looking for the best solutions for children. Secondly, due to the need for legal regulation of this type of child protection and as a legal basis for the payment of livestock and social security contributions and as a standard for the exercise of foster care as a profession. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Committee of the National Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered the bill at its 23rd regular meeting or at its 23rd regular session on 8.10. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which also had specific comments on individual articles of the bill. The members of the committee also received comments from the Maribor Breeding Club. The Committee held a debate and vote on the amendments tabled by qualified applicants, namely Ms Danica Simšič France Cukjat, Janez Drobnič, Valentin Pohorec and the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 18, 46, 52, 59, 67, 69 and 76, and to the amendment of Mr Tsukati's fellow Member to Article 51. The Committee also adopted its amendments to Article 2, Article 21, Article 59, Article 61, Article 62, Article 63, Article 64, Article 65, Article 66 and Article 76. The Committee also unanimously adopted all the articles of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Danica Simšič will present to us the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished second presence! In front of us is a law that systematically regulates the implementation of a foster activity that has been fragmented so far, dealt with in part in the Law on Marriage and Family Relations and in part in the Social Protection Act. We support the law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats because it clearly defines the conditions and standards that must be met by those who want to carry out foster activities. But don't forget the duty of social work centers. It also regulates the financing of foster activities. The foster care world has actually known each other since we've known the family. The law defines foster care as a special form of care and upbringing for children who are temporarily unable to reside in a biological family. From the child's point of view, the family is the foundation where the child meets the basic individual needs necessary for growth and development. These are basic physiological needs on the one hand, and on the other hand the need for security, love, respect, creativity and self-realisation is no less important. Without the satisfaction of some of these needs, children cannot survive. But without the satisfaction of others, he can survive. But the question is, what is the quality of this life? And from this point of view, the role of foster parents and foster families is still important. The individual solutions to this law have already been quite extensively discussed by the minister and there is nothing to add here. Except perhaps for the wish that the law would actually be definitively adopted as soon as possible. On behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, I would like to be in a hurry only to propose an amendment to the 51st section of the Act, which we have proposed together with the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. It speaks of the amount of so-called material costs for the foster parent. In the bill, the amount of these costs is slightly less than 45 000 tolars. And given that this calculation, defined in a similar way as the amount of the minimum income guaranteed, used in determining the amount of financial assistance under the Social Security Act, did not take into account the so-called expenditure on non-consumer goods - for example, the cost of non-consumer goods such as household equipment, for example, the use of parquets, walls or taxes and similar things - we propose that the amount be increased by some 4 grand, to a little less than 49,000 dollars per regent. If you want an exact number, it's 48 thousand 586 tolls for an individual foster kid. We believe that such an increase is justified and will therefore be supported. Similarly to what we have proposed and already supported on the working body the possibility of an extraordinary increase in the supply of an additional 25 per cent. Initially, the bill contained only the possibility of an extraordinary 25 - percent reduction in care. And that is why we will not support a similar, just slightly more awkward proposal from the members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party. In short, in the UK Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal of the law, as it is supplemented, because it will provide much clearer and more comprehensive material conditions for the lives of more than 1,300 children of the child and about 500 foster families in Slovenia. Finally, only once more will the law be adopted as soon as possible as possible in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Certainly, unfortunately, there are more and more cases in Slovenia where children lose their parents in such a way or other. In such cases, the State must take care of such children in the best possible way. We are bound by international conventions to offer the child what is best for him. When we weigh a child or move him to a boarding school, a facility where he and others will share a destiny of life together, or assign him to a foster family, then there is no debate as to what is better for the child. We are all aware of where the child will find more emotional reflection, more response, more stability, where he will find a father's, a mother's element, where he will find, in some way, brothers, sisters, with them, and somehow find a real substitute for his lost family. This option needs to be seen as a priority by the State, even if it is more expensive than providing care for children in their homes. However, the bill, which also seeks to regulate this on the financial side, assumes that the care of children in such a foster family will be more expensive than in homes. When we asked, of course, how such anomalies had occurred and whether it was really possible at such low cost for a foster family to provide for the child in its entirety, we first wondered why foster parents were not invited to form the marriage alone, why they were not asked. This is as if, for example, we were adopting a government or a government law, and the government would not be asked what it meant by this law. Or they would have passed a law on working relationships, and they would not have asked workers or employers what they thought about it. Or, as was the case in the medical service law, we did not ask the doctors what they were thinking or did not listen to them. A strange way that, in fact, foster parents did not participate in the very creation of the law. They were not invited to participate. Probably because the issue of costs here is crucial, how much they are recognised. When we asked the committee why such low costs were recognised to their foster parents, the ministry representative said: "Yes, but we must preserve that idealism so that foster parents will not accept children for money, but for deeper, more noble tendencies." I would say: also work in the social field, including the Ministry of Social Affairs, should not work only for money, so I suggest that we cut the ministry's wages by half to work out of idealism. I think it's funny that such arguments aren't serious about this place, they're not serious about this treatment. And because of this at least what it is, these foster parents need to be granted real material costs. For tomorrow, when normal conditions are established in the previous child’s family, social services will come and take the children and move them back to biological parents. And if anything goes wrong with the foster parents, the foster parents will answer. The foster parents should even carry out and will have to carry out special seminars, special additional education and so on. With regard to material costs, it is necessary to be fair and even with regard to payment, since if the foster father has three foster parents in care, he must earn so much that he can stay at home and fully devote himself to these children, not only eight hours a day, but twenty-four hours a day, Fridays and Christmases. This must be more than minimum wage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. The family has an irreplaceable role in the child’s life. It provides him with conditions for personal development, healthy growth and conditions for the creation of his personality. Therefore, children who cannot live with their biological parents because of the variety of conditions are particularly disadvantaged. And the task of the State to protect the child is particularly important in such cases. The provision of a substitute family that will care for both the material and emotional well - being of the child is certainly one of the most responsible tasks. The activities of fostering have so far been included in the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, but we believe that the proposal for a law on the performance of fostering activities is a step further, since it defines the conditions for the implementation of fostering activities, the procedures for obtaining permits, the method of carrying out foster care and, last but not least, the financing. In recent times, there have been too many reports of complications that have arisen in individual cases when social work centres have placed children in foster care. Therefore, the individual project group set up at the time of placement of the child in foster care, in which the social work centres, the foster parents, the foster and the biological family are involved, is a solution allowing all participants to participate. Only the common agreement of all participants ensured the best possible conditions for child growth and development. It is also commendable that it is possible to foster as a profession to have these 109 people who have so far decided to care for children who do not live with their biological parents who are provided with health and disability insurance. And that, on the other hand, it is effectively provided for the control of foster parents. Finally, this law will support both the constitutional provisions on children's rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and, most importantly, allow children to have as happy and carefree a childhood as possible. Of course we'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Stanislava Stopar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice evening greeting. We have already adopted many important laws in the field of health, work and family in Parliament. The European Union is putting us even at the top of this sensitive issue. In more or less willing debates, we have also called many laws to the point that they are so much more important, not only because they regulate sensitive human areas, but they are also the basis for the journey to the European Union. Today we have a law on the implementation of foster care. You could say a small marriage, but it doesn't matter. On the contrary. In its mission, it lays down the conditions for the implementation of the foster care activity, the procedure for obtaining a breeder’s professional authorisation, the conditions for the breeder to carry out this activity as a profession, the tasks of social work centres and the re-establishment of a common register of foster parents and foster parents, which we have not previously had. In the Liberal Democracy Group, when considering the law on the implementation of fostering activities, we note the positive development of this activity and the quality experience of social work centres that are moving into a new, higher quality for the benefit of every child who is placed in a foster family. It puts us under the responsibility of finding a substitute family to provide appropriate emotional and physical development for a child who temporarily cannot live in his family. Members of the Liberal Democracy therefore positively assess that the breeding activity is defined in a specific law, although it has already been defined as a measure in the law on marriage and family relations. We will therefore support the law on the implementation of fostering activities in the parliamentary group. By Article 51, we have also tabled an amendment with the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to amend the second paragraph of Article 51 of the law on the implementation of the breeding activity by amending the material costs for the breeder to be 48.586,00 tolars instead of 62.000,00 tolars. The drafter proposed that the material costs for the district of 44,853,00 tolar should be equal to 40% of the average monthly expenditure, excluding non-consumable goods per person, to an adult who was converted to 1.1.2002. At its 23rd meeting, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons adopted the amendment by Dr Francet Tsukjat to amend the second paragraph of Article 51 so that the material costs for the Ombudsman amount to 62,000. In the LDS Group, we are aware and it seems fair to us that the material costs for a foster parent must be designed on the same criteria, since this keeps the relationship between those who care for their children and those who care for them in foster care. We agree with the idea that fostering does not have a prehistoric background, that it is good to do so simply because of good material conditions. Members of the LDS have therefore carefully considered and accepted all comments from the welfare associations and social work centres, as well as the opinion of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs.In accordance with the debate on the Committee, we also consider the resident to be part of the household and the benefits of non-consumer goods. We support the proposaler's position that the amount of material costs for the Ombudsman is linked to similar starting points as the amount of money aid to the extra-Social Protection Act and to monetary benefits and to the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act. We therefore propose that non-profit goods should also be taken into account when determining the amount of material costs for the minor and that the amount of this amount is 48,586 tolars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. Nursing in Slovenia is long ago present as all recognition and respect for the humane action of individuals and families. Today, or the time we live, there are many factors that point out that just thinking about the consequences of accidents will make sense to preserve and even encourage the willingness of individuals to carry on as a profession, even in our society. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore welcome the proposal for a law that comprehensively regulates the field of care and addresses the many issues that have been unresolved over the years in this area. However, we believe that for such a human act, regardless of the status of the foster father or the status of the foster father, the State must have a realistic assessment, both on the issue of the recognition of material costs and on the recognition of the level of the prize, which it is not necessary to be, namely, a sum of individual values or statistics, but there must also be a real comparison, both substantive, quantitative and quantitative, of what it represents for the country, if an individual, of the same breeder, provides and raises in an institution or represents for the country, if it is in a securely warmer shelter and in the event of a safe fire of a family. Therefore, at the time of the amendment of the Member's colleague and member of the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee, Dr Tsukjati, the so-called blue decision of the mother's working body that the scale or assessment of the value or, to say the least recognised, the amount of funds for material costs was raised to 62 000. Any different thinking in this context, as I said it, means that it is not a problem for our country to allocate the great material costs of the state budget for some luxury matters - officials and so on - and the problem is when we have to - and if we return, what is the number of these children today - a few tolars more to count for this human act. Therefore, the parliamentary group does not intend to support the amendment of the two parliamentary groups, namely, the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia and the United Kingdom, that the assessment or recognition of all funds for material costs should be reversed or increased by 4 000 by the initial purpose of the law. What this law brings, including for the higher level of recognised material costs to the foster parents, is only good and positive for both the foster father and the foster father. Therefore, we will certainly support the law in its entirety and the proposal that is complementary to the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u200	Dear colleagues, government representatives and others present in this Chamber. Parenthood has a long tradition in Slovenia and is relatively well organised. Performers of the foster family are also organized, a club of foster families, which is located in Slovenia about 500. It is a shame that the government has not addressed the caregivers, the foster family, to a greater extent in the preparation of the law. This would provide a good starting point and a good basis for the drafting of the law and might also avoid some conflict situations. In particular, if the government were to provide timely information on how it is with cost comparisons. At the hearing, we asked the Ministry of Labour exactly how much the average care of children installed in public institutions was, in order to make a comparison, but we did not get it. Now we do not know whether this can be calculated or whether the intentions or backgrounds are different. This does not mean that we would not compare the actual data. I also asked on the committee itself and said that I wanted to see the full cost of the country for individual children. However, if we are to make an appropriate system, we must have comparisons, in line with the protection in institutions, i.e. with an adequate activity, socially or publicly, in order to be able to do so. In fact, modern fostering is not only based on humanitarian inclinations, which are, of course, the basis for families to adopt their children into foster care but are not sufficient. An adequate material basis must be provided by the State; one without the other, and the other is not possible if we want to create an equivalent care with foster care for a child who cannot be with the parents. Children are placed in foster care because it is most appropriate for the child, not because it would be most rational for the country. Because, therefore, it is most appropriate for a child, because ultimately the child is not a marketable commodity. We are also witnesses to attempts to promote specialized care. In the New Slovenia Group, we do not object to the fact that foster families and all those who care about the implementation of all of this are also public institutions and some experts to train. However, it is not possible to replace a foster family with experts of some kind. Why not? Because a person, that is, a child must win all the roles that are necessary for life, must go through childhood and need children, his peers, to establish contacts and to be socialised in this way. You can’t replace this with an expert so that your child will have experts instead of his peers. It is therefore necessary to be aware that only through authentic relations will he be able to recognize his role, city, possibilities and all that is necessary for primary and secondary socialisation, to live in society. We tried to introduce the possibility of a working relationship for part-time or part-time work, i.e. under the condition that the foster family does not have two children. Apparently, that didn't happen because most of them objected. This would make the system more flexible.We should be aware of how valuable Slovenian families are, those who are organized Slovenian families and care for their children. Through this, we also learn the value and importance of investing in families, those that ensure the healthy physical and mental development of young people. In particular, we should act appropriately when we hear a variety of jokes about those who have more children. We do not oppose the proposed law in Novi Slovenija because this area needs to be regulated in accordance with modern principles and the doctrine of fostering, but not all proposals follow this objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u202	Madam President! This is to train, distinguished representatives of the ministry, and to move a little, at least those of us who have met since the early hours of 8:30 a.m. since the European Affairs Commission, which we are on duty in this Parliament today. I think the topic we're talking about, even though a little entertainment or entertainment needs to be taken care of, is very serious. “Child is not a market commodity”, my respected colleague, Mr Drobnic, said, which, of course, I absolutely agree with. But I'm putting it right now, not him, but the double, because the doppelgangers are big, and on the other hand, it's a group proposal to increase this amount that the foster family gets. That means it's marketable. I mean, talking about foster care is really hard today. It's right that there's a law. The law is a regulation which, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, must exist and which governs certain precise relationships that give rise to certain rights and, of course, obligations. But every element we can talk about right now has its own doppelganger. If we take the theory, and no matter what it is, it's Marx's, that no one would compare me to the previous system, that family is the basic cell of society -- I'm saying, no matter what Marx wrote, that's the truth. Now one would wonder whether it would be better to form a law governing and care for those children who do not have a normal family life or to pass a law on punishing those parents who do not care about the upbringing and growth of their children. It is certainly not good to seek some demagogy in social policy in the law on fostering. I will again make a comparison with the Scandinavian countries, not to be in love with them, but as far as these areas are concerned, they have a lot of experience and it does not seem right to me that some elements from Scandinavian countries, such as Sweden, where the developed form of social care for children is already a tradition that dates back to the 18th century, or Denmark, or Finland. But we live in Slovenia, this is always stressed by the Slovenian National Party. Basically, the family is always obliged to take care of its children. Matrimonial is beautifully written, but the part, unfortunately with this law of some business process - unfortunately, I say - that provides warmth that provides a substitute family and provides in essence a new profession for the Slovenes who are unemployed and who have a sense, duty and opportunity to survive. When reviewing the law in the Slovenian National Party, we stopped at the beginning of Article 5 and, of course, asked ourselves first what members of such activities as fostering that someone “must”. But that's the law. Under Article 13 training of foster care - also an expression that has its double again. Whether it is necessary or not, fostering is the relationship of a person to some kind of education - we know from books or stories of Slovenian writers what was and what was. But the law is what it is, and the law must be formed. However, Article 23 — a foster parent may have a maximum of three foster parents. A double we can talk about again. Someone wants to take care of and help, and they want to have five siblings. [[...]] [[A warning for the end.]] I've been too long. [[...]] Thank you very much. I'll close my mind. I would have much more to say about the livestock, the records and the protection, but above all, I have a problem with the penal provision and I would like someone to talk about it; someone to be punished for the offence because they are carrying out a parental activity without permission. This article, forgive my fellow Members and colleagues, chapter 12, criminal provision and I am not quite clear. I don't understand because I don't understand him or because he's incomplete. And if you understand as I do that it's incomplete, please, let's agree on one - let's perfect it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you so much for the long thought. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 16.10.2002. Just to remind you of the time available to representatives of the parliamentary groups: LDS 5 minutes, SDS 10 minutes, United List 5 minutes, SLS 5 minutes, Nova Slovenija 15 minutes, SNS 10 minutes and government representatives 5 minutes. I am putting to the debate Article 51 and the amendment, the two amendments under 1 are the amendments of the LDS Club of Parliament and the United Nations Group of Members and under the two groups of Members, the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Of course, the material costs associated with the upbringing or care of a foster parent are the same as they are. I would like you to realize that not only food is included in these costs, only what you eat and drink, but not only what you wear, but also not room, room, bed, but also school equipment, including lunch at school, even school in nature, and if you want something else. Another basic material standard, including a bicycle, some skis and some skiing in the winter. Imagine that the foster family has two children and two foster parents, and they buy their children a bike and ski and go skiing, and the foster parents stay home. Regents are already being punished in one way or another, in some way hurt, very vulnerable, because they can't actually stand up with their biological parents because they're in some way without their family, because they're, even if the foster parents are good people, but they're foreigners. And these vulnerable children, youth, would be greatly affected if they were still discriminated against in a material sense. For this reason, I find it unfair for these children to recognise inappropriately smaller material costs than they are recognised if they are placed in an institution. I think here the country should be so honest, because it's not so big a deal that you should understand it. And because of this, of course, I will not support the amendment to lower these costs, the amendment proposed by the LDS and the United List, to reduce the recognition of costs from 62,000 to 48,000. I think there is no basis for this reduction in material costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u206	In Slovenia, there are certainly not many children who go into foster care. This represents a certain cost, but, as I have already said, we cannot decide on the basis of this because it is the most expensive, but what is necessary, and ensure that material or material costs are adequately covered. I still haven't received an answer from the government representatives as to how these costs are comparable. How are these costs for public institutions performing public service and how are they with private ones? While I have already pointed out that only in the case of - that is to say, in the framework of the foster family - children's allowance should also be taken into account, all those social ratings which are in such status should be taken into account. But it's about time I got an answer, because I haven't got it yet, so we can imagine what it is. You can compare, I don't know, apples with apples, not apples with pears. I therefore once again call on the government to answer this question, which I have already put on the home committee. In fact, it is not possible to carry out fostering activities unless material costs are adequately covered. This will, after all, be known in the implementation of fostering activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. When we received this bill for consideration, first of all because I saw that this law follows us as a working body, I discussed the matter of the material of this law with a good man, our fellow Member from the previous term, Dr. Brain, who, in addition to his many families, also carried out foster care for two foster parents. And I asked him about these questions offered by the proposer. He says, "You can't pay for that. There is no price.’ The proposer and the state, in two words, upgrade the content by assigning to the breeder a minimum basket, which is recognised according to statistics as material costs for the child. That's just the minimum. Without the Government or the applicant providing information on the economic value of the institution providing care or care to the resident, and without the data being provided by the applicant, and the number of children being placed in good families today, it is very difficult to assess what the value of our decision will be after all. The decision will only be slightly removed from this debate, because we understand this rule of procedure by voting after the debate has moved away when the substance moves away. Well, this is the dominant, which is chosen by a majority in this House or by the new Rules of Procedure, because it is the easiest thing to vote on all that has content. This amendment has a content which the Committee has also strongly supported. The content for each country is the minimum through which it should practically not enter in this case. And that is why I will certainly oppose this amendment with what I have. That's one vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mrs. Kovsca. Here you go. Can you stand up, please? Mr. Brenčič, can you turn yourself off? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. I would like to, - some of the challenges here have been with regard to the costs themselves, only to briefly explain the following. Firstly, personally, I do not think that it is possible to directly link fostering activities and costs in foster care with costs in factory forms for at least two reasons. Matrimonial care is not comparable to any of our institutional forms. If we are talking about children who are being educated or mentally disturbed, this is especially the case for qualified people with university education, medical and other personnel who deal with such children; it is the same for children who are in special institutions when it comes to other forms of disability. That's one aspect. The second aspect is that the costs that we have calculated are not minimal, as Mr Brenčič stated, but the average basket, of which these costs are charged and recognised by the State, is a government proposal. In proportion to monetary social assistance and in relation to monetary social assistance and parental costs, as well as the contribution of the State or the recognised contribution proposed for income relief to the child. We tried to get these things into a relationship because they were comparable. However, it is not comparable to comparing the cost of a child in one institution and in one foster family. But I'll say it anyway. This means SIT 257,169 for three children, together with contributions from the State and SIT 311,387. This is also comparable to any other profession and activity carried out by our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u212	I agree with you that comparing it with any institution, especially for those who are particularly affected, I do not know, is not comparable, but we do have institutions with which this comparability is possible. I know that for sure. Now I remember another experience that I had in Germany, where we were told how family accommodation is, that is to say, into a good family that can provide real development, a unique opportunity and a valuable opportunity for the country to provide a child with the right environment, because it can provide really those family roles that they are. This child needs the most, and in no case can it be replaced by the installation in the institution, even if you have an institution that responds only to these requirements, because the primary family cannot provide the child with life in that family. However, we should be aware of this, and I have therefore asked what these differences are. And these differences, if you really take them as a whole, all costs are very high. On the other hand, the cost of living. The country also benefits from this. They are not only net net costs if they provide insurance and subsidise this. It also benefits him. And payment to the Treasury. You need to be aware of that. And these aspects are not taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Mr. Tsukjatin, then Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. Well, for the first time, one comparison was made. But I have to say, this comparison is on broken legs. 350 grand gross cost the state for three precincts. So much, ma'am, is the gross salary of one of the educators in the home or more is the gross salary of one of the educators who works 8 hours a day only five days a week - the gross salary of the educator. And paying contributions to a foster parent who has three foster parents, with the lowest possible starting point, means that such a foster father has a very poor future, as far as his pension is concerned. While, of course, when we are talking about the gross wage of the educator, there should also be material costs, then perhaps we should get the right number. With regard to the amendment, which reduces the current proposal by 62,000 or the government's initial proposal for a couple of thousand raises in terms of non-consuming goods, let me just say this: the non-consumable good is also a foster room, a minimum room three times three meters, say, ten square meters, cost the apartment today 4 million, such a room costs 4 million. To depreciate 4 grand a month, as much as you fully recognize non-consumer goods, this room could be amortized in 200 years - in 200 years! - since the depreciation period, during the depreciation period, must be calculated for maintenance of the room or property once again the purchase price. I think these are things that we should talk about a little bit more seriously, well. Or let's say it's good, work for free, the country doesn't have money, there'll be good people. The material costs must be talked about fairly and those material costs which they are recognised. And it's unfair to put this solely on the shoulders of good will and selflessness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I am sure that the applicant or the government has only a few minutes, seconds of time left, and I would like to have information in any way on the number of children placed in good families so that I can assess the order of the necessary resources for the state budget. You have this information. You have accurate information as to how many foster parents are being set up for foster care as a profession and how many foster parents are being set up volunteering or, I would say, good families doing it as a humane act from their content. You have this information. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Of course, since we have explained in the preparation of the breeding law that it is 1,300 to 1,350 children per year, with fewer children. At this point, according to the latest data, 1,275 children are in foster care. That is to say, if you calculate from 44,000 to 62,000 and the difference and times 12 months and 1275, you will be at about 200 million or at another higher real amount of increase than at this point. Another thing I'd like to say. When we talked before and when Dr. Knocking on gross wages, I'm talking about net amounts. This particular herd gets 257,000 net. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I conclude by concluding because I do not see any more who would like to discuss Article 51 and the two amendments to this Article, which is why I conclude this debate. [[…]] I am putting to the debate Article 52 and the two amendments to this Article. Both amendments are proposed to the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party. I'm opening a debate. [[Nobody.]] Mrs. Kovsca, you may be Mr. Cuckoo, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. I don't know how much time I have left.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u221	Four minutes, Mr. Sugar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u222	See, the law does not provide for extraordinary expenditure, higher expenditure, which would be necessary in such or other situations in the care of a foster parent. It's foreseen, but up to a certain amount. This is in the second paragraph of Article 52, where the proposal states that the allowance will be increased at extraordinary expenses for the needs of the foster child, but it is said that it will increase by 25% of the material costs. We believe that sometimes spending can be much higher. For such cases, which are truly exceptional, we propose that this cost be fully reimbursed to the foster parent, but of course on the basis of the approval of the Centre for Social Work or the submission of the account. It can happen, let's say something happens on a trip abroad. You know, if anything happens, sometimes you have to cut it in your pocket, not just for 10,000, but for 100,000 or so. I therefore think that it is necessary to leave it open, not to set the lower or the upper limit for extraordinary expenditure, but to bind it to some approval of the Centre for Social Work - or also to bind it to the submission of the account. With regard to the first paragraph, however, we propose to take into account, in the case of payment of clothing, footwear and so on, in order to evaluate this appropriately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you very much. No one obviously wants to discuss it anymore, so I am also closing the debate on this amendment and on this article. The assembly will hold a vote on the amendments in the next meeting at 7.20 p.m. in the framework of the votes of the assembly. I hereby end this agenda item and this part of the meeting. At 7.20 p.m., we will switch to the vote on all the agenda items held today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u224	Dear Members and distinguished Members, representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, welcome to all! We are moving to a vote on the proposed decisions of the assembly on the agenda items for today. Quite a number of debates have been held. There is quite a number of votes on the amendments to the second reading of the amended bills. I will try to be consistent enough, with the proposalers of the amendments, to make it clear to us what we are voting on and that our decisions can be correct. We're moving on to break 10. The agenda item is the second reading of the proposal for a law on research and development activities. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. I very much ask for peace in the Chamber, because it will be very difficult for us to follow the proposals of the amendments that we must make decisions on. We will vote on the two amendments to Article 11, first of which is the first amendment proposed by the Group of Members with the first-signed Ljub Germic. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 48 votes against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 11 has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 11 which is proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Vote explanation, Mr. Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The new way of working in the National Assembly has taught us that, despite a convincing performance this morning, it is necessary to get a word before the vote again and try those colleagues who, for objective reasons, did not follow the debate to hear the argument. So, I will support the amendment under point 2, which reads: "In the sub-legislative acts referred to in the first sentence of the previous paragraph, the Minister shall expressly stipulate that when members of the professional bodies decide on a project in which the institutions or bodies are involved, when deciding on the fields of science and professions to which they belong, and when deciding on the projects of the institutions in which they are employed to comply with a competitive clause." I am convinced that this should be a universally accepted norm, that when experts decide on projects that are themselves or co-workers in it, or when they decide on projects in science and professions that they run and belong to it, or especially when they decide on some important projects, we are of course talking about money, and they are talking about projects of institutions where they are employed that it is understandable that a competitive clause needs to be taken into account here. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. However, I predict in advance that, in the context of the procedure, we, as a group of Members, are prepared to make a minor addition to this amendment and also to take into account the position expressed by government representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. I ask you kindly, when you report for explanations, just to begin with whether in the name of the Group of Members, or in your own name, because the time you have available in this case is different. If it is on behalf of the Group of Members, it is 3 minutes, but if it is in its own name, it is available for 2 minutes for explanations of vote. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I'm not going to explain to the voice, but I'm going to say that my voting device isn't working and I'm going to ask if the techs check it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Are you out of your mind? [[…]] Not even this moment, Mr. Tiny? I'm assigning a five-minute suspension to review the voting device. I'm asking the technical services to examine Mr. Drobnic's voting device. We'll pick it up at 19.29.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u229	Dearly respected, the voting apparatus at the seat of a fellow Member, Mr Drobnič, is working, so I ask, does anyone else want to explain the vote under the second amendment to Article 11? No, no, no. That is why we are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 11. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 21 votes against 33. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the second amendment to Article 11 has not been adopted. We move to a vote on the government's amendment to the amendment of the Socialist Party of Slovenia's parliamentary group to Article 29. Mr. Germich, an explanation of the voice in your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u230	Dear President, one procedural question only. Today, an amendment to the amendment to article 29 was sent to the table and I am interested, given that different interpretations have been made, in accordance with the procedure, this amendment has been tabled? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you very much. This issue has been cleared up with the presidents in the morning work. The amendment of the government to the amendment of the parliamentary group was also discussed. Mr Podobnik discussed this amendment to the amendment and the decision of the presidents in the morning work is that it is, of course, properly tabled, because it has also been discussed and, of course, the amendment of the Government to the amendment of the parliamentary group will also be voted on. This is the decision of the Presidents in the morning session. I've consulted with them, and that's the decision. Thank you very much. We are voting on the government's amendment to the parliamentary group's amendment. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 44 votes against 8. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the amendment of the government to the amendment of the parliamentary group has been adopted. We are now voting on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia to Article 29, with a footnote, of course, if it is not accepted, the amendment of the Government to this basic amendment, which is proposed by the SDS Group of Members. We are voting on this. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 29 has been adopted. We ended the vote on the amendments. Since, in the second reading of the amendments adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, which has 48 articles, I ask the applicants whether they wish to propose in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Chokova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you very much. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a third consideration of the proposal for a law on research development activities be made at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There's 63 of us in attendance. 60 votes to 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday 25.10.2002. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving to the 11th point where I am informing you that since no amendments have been tabled in the framework of the second reading on the draft law on fundamental development programmes in the field of education and science, the assembly will not vote on this point. We're moving on to break 12. On the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First, we are voting on the amendment to Article 2, the amendment is proposed by the Nova Slovenija Group. Vote explanation, Mr. Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u234	In my own name. I would like to say that I will support the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. I'll give you two arguments why I'm going to do that. The first is that the Constitutional Court’s decision refers to the legislator’s duty to take appropriate legislative measures in his solutions to ensure a negative aspect of freedom of conscience for those individuals who do not wish to confess their faith. There is no case in the Constitutional Court’s decision in the case of the conduct of a confessional activity in schools and schools with concessions in force so far so that it could be violated at any time, i.e. the negative aspect of freedom of conscience, and therefore I believe that this is an important additional argument that the legislator here is more broad and that it does not go into a very strict interpretation and the possibility given to him by the Constitutional Court’s decision. I therefore believe that the solution, as set out in Article 2, is too restrictive for unnecessary. Solution as proposed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u235	Mr. Squirrel, just a second. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u236	colleagues in the New Slovenia Group, to be honest, this is also a government solution in the first round, followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court and at the same time the legislator follows a referral in a decision of the Constitutional Court, when he says that he should propose a reduced means of ensuring a negative aspect of freedom of conscience. [[...]] That's why we're going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u237	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice? Mrs Simsich, please. In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u238	In a personal name. Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I have already said in my previous consideration of the law that I cannot give my support to a law as proposed. And of course, that is why I cannot and will not vote for the amendment which brings the dictates of Article 2 back to what it originally was. It seems important to me that we are aware that, in fact, in Slovenia, at least in my opinion, concessions are granted to kindergartens and schools because of the constant pressure of one religious community itself. And in this case, it's the Roman Catholic Church. Above all, I do not know that any other religion would receive any such educational organization, such as Orthodox or Muslim. And so when we grant concessions, it's not so much about the variety of forms and methods, but about the introduction of certain content. And if we want [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u239	Mrs. Danica. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I very much ask that we are correct to colleagues who have the opportunity to explain their voice and we allow them to do so in a dignified manner with the necessary peace. Thank you very much. Please, there's a little more silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u240	Thank you very much. If we want to admit it or not, we should actually take this treatment of the law for the simple fact that we are introducing confessional education into our public institutions. I would like to say what is, in fact, what is a confessional activity also under the law that we are adopting today. This includes a religious or confessional education aimed at education for religion, a teaching in which the content, textbooks and education of teachers and the appropriateness of the individual teacher is decided by the religious community. And then, it's organized religious rituals. For this reason, I will not support the amendment proposed by the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 2. Let's vote! There are 65 of us in attendance. The vote was 25 to 40. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 4, which is proposed by a group of Members with first-signed Mr Kavticnik. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 65 of us present. 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. Since one amendment was adopted in the second reading to the amended bill, i.e. to more than one-tenth of the articles, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at its next meeting. [[The bill has four articles and one adopted amendment represents more than a tenth of the articles]] . On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 57 votes against 2. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with interrupt 13. The agenda item is the second reading of the proposal for a law on disability organisations. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the amendment of the LDS Members' Groups and the Consolidated List to Article 9. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 47 votes against 6. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the Members' groups of New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia to Article 12. We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 19 votes against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the amendment to Article 12 has not been adopted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the Members' groups of New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia to Article 16. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 15 votes against 44. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the amendment to Article 16 has not been adopted. We are voting on the amendment to Article 18, the proposer is the LDS Group and the Consolidated List. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 42 votes against 13. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the amendment to Article 18 has been adopted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 19. The proposal is sent to the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 16 votes against 43. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the amendment to Article 19 has not been adopted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of New Slovenia's parliamentary groups and the Social Democratic Party to Article 26. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 15 votes against 48. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 28, the applicant is the LDS and the United List. We're voting. There are 62 of us present. 49 votes against 6. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And a vote on the amendment to Article 30 of the same motions. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. At the same time, I note that the four amendments to the four articles have been adopted. The law has 40 articles. However, the condition for the application of Article 138 that amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended law, since four out of forty is equal to one-tenth, and this is not less than one-tenth, will not be possible to submit a proposal under Article 138(1). This means that it can be found that amendments were adopted by just one-tenth of the articles in addition to the draft law, so the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at its next meeting. Therefore, on the basis of Rule 137(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopts the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let's vote! There are 59 of us in attendance. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with interrupt 14. Point of the agenda – the second deals with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on victims of war violence. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on victims of war violence, the second reading, is not suitable for further consideration. Voice explanation, Mr. Pukšič. In your own name? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u243	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u244	The Group of the Social Democratic Party will oppose such a decision. The reason is simple. Forced mobilisers who have retired under the law on the age insurance of farmers have so far been unable, after six amendments to this law, to enforce the time of war violence and the time of return to their homes in the retirement period, even though those periods have been recognised by a legal decision on the recognition of the status of the victim of the war-torn violence of forced mobilizers. These rural pensioners are pensioners from 1.1.2000 onwards 31.199,60. That means minimum pension, monthly. Under Article 176 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, the Age Insurance of Farmers Act expired only on 31.12.1993. After that date, farmers are also retired under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Compulsory mobilisers who have retired under the farmer's old-age insurance law are not in equal standing with compulsory mobilizers who have retired under the pension and disability insurance law, even as farmers after 1.1.1984. The fact is, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u245	Wait a minute! Please! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are obliged to ensure peace for the debaters in the Chamber. I'm asking for the necessary silence. I'll add up those 10 seconds, don't worry. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u246	Thank you very much for allowing conditions, although they are still bad. The second amendment to this law referred to the need to recognise the time to be determined from 15.2., i.e. those three months until 15.5.45. The third purpose of the drafters of this law was to recalculate the family pension on the basis of the deceased right-of-law right under the law on victims of war violence. Given that there is already a government proposal in Parliament, given that we have, of course, seen government proposals, amendments to this law, the sixth, seventh amendment of the law on victims of war violence has been prepared, this government change does not take into account any of the changes that would have been resolved by this law. That is why, of course, I wonder, or I can see clearly, that for some in this government coalition, Slovenian farmers are second-rate citizens. I wonder why some farmers stink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u247	Thank you very much. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 67 of us present. The vote was 42 to 19. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the bill on the use of the Slovenian sign language. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First of all, we vote on the amendment of New Slovenia's parliamentary groups and the Social Democratic Party to Article 11. We're voting. There are 66 of us in attendance. 17 votes against 42. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. In Article 12, we will vote on two amendments. First of all, if the first amendment is adopted, the amendment, which we will first vote on, is an unprecedented vote on the second amendment. This is the amendment of the LDS and the United List of Members. First, we vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 16 votes against 40. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 12 has not been adopted. We therefore also vote on the second amendment to Article 12. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 51 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. We are also voting on the amendment of the LDS and the United List to Article 13. Just a moment, please. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 54 votes against 6. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended this by voting on the amendments. Minister Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose that, within the meaning of the first paragraph of Article 138, I propose, on behalf of the applicant, that a third hearing be held at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-23-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The proposed law to the assembly proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure at this meeting, carry out a third examination of the draft law as the condition laid down in our Rules of Procedure has been met and amendments adopted to less than a dozen articles of the amended bill have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 58 votes against 5. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the bill on Friday, 25.10. 2002. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I hereby end this item of the agenda and continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the implementation of fostering activities. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First, we are voting on the first amendment to Article 51, the drafters are the LDS and the United List, and then the second amendment to Article 51, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. First, we vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 41 votes against 20. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 51. We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 19 votes against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the second amendment to Article 51 has not been adopted. We are voting on two more amendments by 52. A member. Both proposers are members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party. First, we vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the first amendment was not adopted. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 52. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 20 votes against 36. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the second amendment has not been adopted. The Minister did not make a proposal, even if he had the option, so the Council of State will carry out the third reading of the bill at its next meeting. [[...]] I propose to the assembly that it be decided that the Government prepares a law for third reading. We will vote on this proposal. Let's vote! There's 63 of us in attendance. It's 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item, which concludes the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all so much and good night.
