ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! Good morning, good morning! I begin the continuation of the 18th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Member and Members. Jelko Kacin, Roman Jakič, Silva Čnugelj, Bogdan Barovich, Dr. Jožef Bernik, Vojko Čeligoj, Alojz Peterle, Leopold Kremjar, Dušan Vučko, Janez Podobnik, Matjaž Švagan, Franc Čebulj, Davorin Targeton from 2 p.m., Branko Kelemina from 2 p.m. on, Flower Zalokar Orazem from 18.45 p.m. From 17.30 onward, Anton Butolan from 17.00 onward, Branko Janc, Milan Kopushar from 16.30, Franz Kangler and Miha Brac from 18.00 onward. I'm moving on to 10. Agenda item — First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Traffic Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, the 18 Members are a group of first-signed mags. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text first to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. At the same time, I welcome the Minister and his co-worker. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! For parliamentary consideration, the government has submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the railway law. Demands for increased mobility of the population, the free and affordable movement of cargo and the maximum use of rail infrastructure, at the same time as maximum security and with as little investment as possible by taxpayers, are tasks assigned to us at the time of entry into the integrated European space. The legislation drafted by the Government, which includes the law amending and supplementing the law on rail transport, the law on the transformation and privatisation of public undertakings, and the proposal and supplementation of the national programme for the development of railway infrastructure, responds to the tasks set out. The sources of legislation are set out in the principles of the common European transport policy of the relevant directives, the national and development programme, the economic analysis of business systems and the coalition contract. This law constitutes a harmonisation of the acquis of the European Union with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act constitutes a harmonisation of the law, as has already been said, with the legal order of the EU, in particular the directives adopted by the European Parliament on 26 February 2001 relating to the development of railways in the EU Member States, the issue of railway service licenses, the allocation of train routes, the determination of rail infrastructure supplies, the issuance of safety certificates and the establishment of bodies required by the EU acquis and operating within the framework of public administration bodies or as independent authorities, holders of public powers, which, as such, are organised by railway authorities. The law provides for the establishment of an Agency for Rail Transport which has executive, developmental and professional tasks. Part of these tasks lays down its responsibilities in the field of monitoring and monitoring the application of technical standards relating to the trans-European system, conventional or rapid routes and thus carries out the task of the supervisory authority, as required by the relevant Directive. Its activity is also intended to ensure, in the interests of users, the transparent and impartial functioning of the rail market. At the same time, there is no negligible possibility of managing public rail infrastructure and land and providing a general meaning for the derailment of rail transport, which should consequently lead to a reduction in the cost of the budget, as all the Agency's revenue is intended to cover the maintenance and modernisation costs of the existing public rail infrastructure, as well as to cover the costs of potential new developments. The transitional provisions empower the Agency to rent a loan for the maintenance and modernisation of a public rail infrastructure amounting to 8.25 billion per year in 2002 and 3 in its domestic banks. In view of the delay in the adoption of the law, the National Assembly will have to amend the provisions of the law relating to 2002 as the funds for this year have already been provided by the Guarantee Act. The law lays down the competences of the Ministry of Transport as the managing authority responsible for handling complaints against individual administrative acts of the Agency relating to the allocation of train paths, the determination of use and the issuance of licences and safety certificates, and other issues relating to non-discriminatory action in the rail transport system, require such an authority to provide for the EU acquis. The proposal to amend and supplement the law on the allocation of competences in the rail transport system, in our opinion, summarises the EU's guidelines on the liberalisation of public services management and the associated division of powers between the authorities and the organisations they make up. It is worth noting, however, that the Slovenian railway system is not only a public undertaking of the Slovenian Railways, nor a future holding company, but also companies that form the business system of Slovenian railway companies as its subsidiaries, as provided for by the Act on the Conversion and Privatisation of the SŽ Public Company, which is in the legislative process. Both the existing public undertaking and the future company system, which will come from a public undertaking, are only part of the Slovenian railway system. In addition to companies or companies, state authorities, the government, the competent ministry with the bodies in its composition, other public law persons established to take over part of the regulatory, development and professional tasks in the field of rail transport and other companies engaged in railway activities. These are the basic starting points of the law and I propose to the assembly that, on the basis of the baselines presented, it should hold a debate that will help to establish as best as possible the legislative text for further parliamentary consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mr. Janko Weber, United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Chairman, and a nice greeting to everyone. On behalf of the United Nations Parliamentary Group, I would like to point out that, years ago, we have been alerting the development of the Slovenian Railways, and we note that there is certainly a need for a radical and qualitative movement in the field of the railway network at this moment. This movement is certainly needed in order to ensure, in particular, a more cost-effective and coherent development of the country, to improve connectivity with the world, as well as to protect the environment and, last but not least, to make better use of energy. These are certainly those guidelines that are still relevant today if we are to become comparable either with other Member States of the European Union or with developed countries. That is why we support this law in particular because it is intended to provide additional means to rebuild and upgrade existing lines and to build new railway infrastructure, so that the railway will truly become a carrier of public passenger transport, and otherwise we expect the railway to become a priority vehicle for freight transport at a greater distance. Unfortunately, this provision, which is supposed to be saved by the law, is likely to be too much at this stage, because the obligations that are already at the railways today are extremely large and also this amount, which is currently registered in the law, is just over 8 billion [[Guarantee for leased loans]] , it is certainly not the amount that will lead to a more qualitative and radical shift in the rail network. We therefore expect that the applicant will, of course, supplement this law accordingly and be identified in particular to all existing obligations on the railways so far. In transport policy, however, I think we will need to change our thinking. I think it will be necessary to change thinking, because if we monitor data, for example, from 1995, when the ratio of investment in roads and railways 8:1 in favour of roads, according to the known data, for example, in 1999 the ratio of investment was 30:1 in favour of roads. So we are actually recording the decline in investment in the rail network and this is the problem that will certainly have to be solved in the transport policy itself at the level of Slovenia. In addition to these known facts, existing obligations and the urgent need for development, it is nevertheless important to note that this law also provides for the possibility that municipalities can be involved in the organisation of public service or public transport by means of railways as they need to. Of course, this is a new challenge, which, I think, is difficult for the congregations to take on, because it will usually be the routes that will not be occupied and this obligation to subsidise such routes will be extremely great. Therefore, I think that the applicant should also consider this solution further in detail. Also in the Agency, which appears as the next form of the current Directorate, we would like to point out in particular that the Agency should not cause additional costs of work, as these, too, have increased exceptionally on railways and any increase in labour costs, including from the creation of a new agency, would be extremely unpleasant and would only worsen the current situation on Slovenian railways. We therefore expect the applicant to prepare such solutions to try to find appropriate solutions within both existing railway personnel and, of course, not to increase these costs in the existing directive. It is also about transferring the management of Slovenian railways, in fact to the agency, which is certainly one of the more difficult movements. Here, too, I think that very careful attention would be given to this management being organised in an efficient manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemenia, Social Democratic Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, all together! In our Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, we believe that this proposal of the law that is before us can be, in the first place, even exaggerated and, in the second instance, does not bring some substantial long-term solutions or at least clear solutions for the development of Slovenian railways, but, of course, tries to resolve some of the issues that have accumulated in recent years where the existing owner is, of course, a country and its authority, has not done all the measures that Slovenian Railways should take to make today not in such a difficult situation as they are. Above all, it seems to us that the government wants this bill, but of course with all the other proposals of the law still under consideration, such as the Privatisation Act, then along with the national programme, and especially with the Privatisation Act, to somehow break the unity of Slovenian railways and thus our assessment - given the size of the system, which is extremely small in relation to comparability against the European system - to also cause, according to our assessment, inefficiencies and increased operating costs. Of course, here is the main problem, as we understand from this law, in particular the establishment of a special agency, which would somehow have powers, greater than actually normal in some or most European countries. We also assess that this proposal for a law in many ways is extremely flawed and should be complemented, in particular in its explanation. In fact, a number of data are missing, not sufficiently reasoned thesis, such as some transport policy of the Slovenian Railways. Indeed, the Minister himself spoke of a European transport policy. I have repeatedly, and our Group of Members has repeatedly asked where these Slovenian transport policy documents are, of course, in the area of Slovenian Railway Development Policy. In short, we are solving some things in part, as we have said several times before, and we do not see from this documentation, which is ahead of us, some comprehensive long-term solutions that would provide Slovenia with what the proposer wants on some elements. But then he won't give us that information at the final stage. In particular, I miss, and I hope, that we will be able to get data on the number of new jobs on Slovenian railways in the last two years, at least in the last two years. Above all, in the Maribor Directorate and so on; and whether or not these new ones will now - which, of course, this law does not explain - how these jobs or new jobs will affect the cost of work and so on. In short, our fear is that this law will not, in accordance with other laws, contribute to the fact that when the international market opens up in this area, Slovenian railways will be willing to enter this market effectively and there will be no loss of business. What is, of course, the main domain of Slovenian railways to obtain as much business as possible, of course in these important corridors that we have ahead of us; in short, also the negotiation and presence of railway management, as Mr Miklavčič, the new director, has also said, somehow this agreement between the authorities and the management of Slovenian railways is not. In short, a wide range of communication in this area does not work, and our assessment is that simply by amending the law, by modifying certain powers, breaking the unity of the Slovenian railways will not contribute to this proposal. In short, we would like to easily obtain additional information on this and if we get this information, we will support this law. Otherwise, our parliamentary group will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Ašić, Liberal Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Mr Vice President, Mr Minister, colleagues, colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act as a suitable basis for further consideration, in particular because it has to be aligned with the new European Union rail transport directive package, because two new and one amended Directive require the amendment or reorganisation of railway undertakings, which means that the amendment of the Rail Transport Act should also be adopted with a view to the adoption of the Law on the Transformation and Privatisation of the Slovenian Railway Public Company, which is also in the legislative process of the National Assembly. This is also due to the fact that the state of public railway infrastructure is such that it is essential to improve management, maintenance, modernisation and renovation. On the basis of this law, the current Railway Directorate will be transformed into a railway agency with new administrative and operational tasks. Practically, the Agency will be most responsible for the situation in the field of rail transport. The question is whether it is appropriate for the Ministry responsible for transport to remain solely the custodian of the basic principles for the implementation of this law and the Board of Appeal for the decisions of the Agency. In further consideration of this law, these relations should also be carefully examined in terms of the responsibility of the Government’s department for the situation for which it is established. I think we understand each other, because it actually seems like a complicated transfer of all responsibilities to a future newly established agency. The law itself, with the exception of the acquisition of loans for modernisation or maintenance of EUR 8 billion in 2002 and once again in 2003, and the potential inability of the paying agency, does not provide for other financial implications for the state budget. Which, of course, is true. However, Members are not aware of how much funding will be needed in the future to make this law, as well as the law on the reorganisation and privatisation of the Slovenian Railways, a full and long-term impact of the railway economy. What is needed to increase the amount of cargo transported on Slovenian tracks in order to increase the number of passengers transported on Slovenian railways. Of course, we do not see a problem only in how to determine railway infrastructure on the basis of the criteria and requirements of the Directorate, how to show separate costs, but mainly in how to effectively market them. Of course, the answer to the fact that this is and that this will be the problem of the Agency cannot be satisfied. 2.c Article 2 states that services provided in the public interest and not paid by the user will be provided financially from the budget of the State or local communities. Of course, what it says is that the financial consequences of this law can be expected in the future. In fact, the question arises because of the amount of these necessary resources, of course if we want inter-city and cross-border passenger traffic in Slovenia to somehow come to life and the number of passengers on the railway would increase. It is also worth noting that there is one opinion of our National Assembly Law Service on the Law on Privatisation of Slovenian Railways, which says that some of the issues dealt with by the Law on Privatisation and Reorganisation of Slovenian Railways should be addressed in this law. And, of course, in view of the situation as it is and the state of treatment, it should also be examined whether some of the opinions of our former secretariat or office would not be taken into account. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, with the support of further consideration of this law, we expect to receive further answers to complex questions on Slovenian transport policy; together with roads, air, maritime and river transport, on the development strategy of the Slovenian railway economy, on the necessary budgetary resources of the state budget and on the budget of local communities to ensure inter-national and inter-urban passenger transport, if the aim is to increase the number of passengers transported, as well as on other issues raised in today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Yuri Malovrej, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice President, representatives of the government, the ministry! The Slovenian People's Party considers that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act is a good law. It is a pity that his twin, the proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the public enterprise of Slovenski železnici d.d., was envisaged at this meeting as the 16th point in order to collect signatures for the referendum and that he will not be present at this meeting. For the Republic of Slovenia has already decided to join the European Union after independence. In this connection, it is also imperative to change individual traditional thinking in the field of transport, especially in the field of rail transport; given that I myself have spent a quarter of a century on the railway, I too have to do so. These traditional considerations are also the main reason for the current economic situation in the Slovenian railways and the regulation of rail transport in general, since the railways were always considered to be state railways. In order to successfully integrate into the European Union, which will also give rise to the satisfaction of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, it is therefore of paramount importance to ensure: firstly, the maximum mobility of the population - much has already been said - for intercity, suburban transport and for the transport of schoolchildren and workers, then the most effective possible delivery of freight transport services and the maximum possible use of public rail infrastructure. The main objective is to ensure the most efficient use of already limited taxpayers' resources for this purpose and to enable the involvement of other available funds for the maintenance and development of railway infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. On these grounds, consideration should be given to the establishment of a rail transport system, which will also allow for the highest possible rate of employment of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of our integration into the European Union. At the time of entry into the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia will also have to offer railway infrastructure to other interested carriers under the same conditions as the domestic carrier. For the moment when the domestic carrier will also be exposed to foreign inevitable competition - let us be clear, in particular in the most sought-after and therefore the most successful services, this is freight - in Slovenia we need to ensure proper restructuring of the domestic carrier, which is the subject of the law on the transformation of Slovenian railways, and an appropriate institutional upgrade, which is the subject of this law. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act proposes such institutional upgrades as would primarily ensure the provision of quality services of public interest in the maintenance of railway infrastructure, the management of transport and rail, passenger and freight transport services defined as a service of public interest. Other than the regulation and supervision of the operation of railway services of different carriers in terms of uniform transport technology and the conformity of technical characteristics, mobile assets of different carriers and features of public rail infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia, the equivalent economic conditions in the use of public rail infrastructure through proper and fair use. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the railway law provides for amendments and additions to the law in force, such as amendments to the acquis of the European Union relating to the development of railways in the Member States of the European Union, for the issue of licences to railway service providers, for the allocation of train routes, for the determination of the use for railway infrastructure and for the issue of safety certificates. The amendments and additions are also linked to the transformation of the public undertaking of the Slovenian Railways, a share company, into a corporate system formed by a ruling company with subsidiaries, as discussed by the law already submitted by the proposer to this national assembly for consideration. The current law needs to be amended and supplemented to allow the distribution of competences in the rail transport system of the State and, as already mentioned, the transformation of the public undertaking of the Slovenian Railways, a share company. The railway transport system consists of the executive authorities carrying out the tasks laid down by law in this system and carrying out the ownership entitlements, here is the title of the government, on the basis of ownership, then of railway infrastructure and companies, public law persons carrying out the tasks of public authority conferred on them by the law and for which it is authorised by the government and the companies forming the company system and other companies providing transport and other services in rail transport. An effective rail transport system where there is a clear division of tasks and a clear delimitation of powers between all persons involved, which is one of the reasons for the adoption of the law in question. It is in this context that the individual actors in the railway system of the Republic of Slovenia should first be properly identified. This complements the definition of the carrier, the infrastructure manager, the balancing authority, the network programme and the timetable. These definitions constitute compliance with the Directives of the European Union from that area. The Directive explicitly defines the tasks or content of the individual concept and therefore the text of the Directives is summarised in the proposal. For example, amendments to Directive 440 require a clearer accounting distinction between the management of railway infrastructure and carriers, the independence of railway operators, the establishment of a trans-European rail network for freight, then Directive 18 extends the right to obtain licences for the provision of rail transport services, then passenger transport operators and Directive 14 sets out rail infrastructure, which includes the whole railway network in the management of railway infrastructure managers, of course, with small exceptions. We point out, however, that the European Union directives explicitly lay down activities which the railway infrastructure manager, which is dependent on the carrier, must not carry out. These tasks are: to issue licences to carriers, to assign train paths, to determine the use and to carry out safety certificates to carriers. All of these clearly define the conditions for the further liberalisation of rail transport. In this context, it is also necessary to take into account national legislation which provides that public rail infrastructure is state-owned, resulting in certain management rights to this infrastructure. Detailed professional breakdown of tasks means, in a relatively understandable procedure, the granting of licences and security certificates, for which only a formal statement and procedure should be agreed and coordinated with the other European Union countries. Before that, it should be noted that the licence obtained in one of the Member States is valid in all Member States of the European Union. A network programme should first be developed to provide a detailed picture of public rail infrastructure in terms of its capacity and conditions of use. On the basis of their analysis, the basics of the prepared and published network programme of individual carriers, domestic and foreign, compete with their draft timetables for each train path. In view of the fact that the allocation of train paths must not be dependent on the carrier, it is understandable that the network programme itself and the production of a harmonised timetable of all carriers must not be linked to the carrier, since otherwise there is doubt about independent decisions. In summary, it means that the proposed railway infrastructure manager in the Republic of Slovenia is not acceptable in holding Slovenian railways. At the same time, in the Republic of Slovenia, the task of the manager is primarily to provide public interest in terms of providing quality public railway infrastructure in state ownership. With its quality, it must also take care of its maximum exploitation. Taking into account the added facts, I also establish a new Law on State Administration and Public Agencies Act, which proposes the establishment of a public agency for public infrastructure managers, which is additional to the State guarantee in all these tasks, in accordance with the financial plan, a possible commitment to finance the maintenance and development of public rail infrastructure. At the same time, the Agency may, on the basis of its own assets, be additionally responsible for the maintenance and development of railway infrastructure. In view of the urgent provision of equal access conditions for all carriers, it is proposed that railway stations and properties for which Slovenian railways have found that they do not need to be transferred to the Agency's ownership. The second reason is to adapt the provisions on a free approach to a new regime which is established in the legal order of the European Union. This highlights the need to provide the trans-European freight network, which must be available to the different carriers, the licence holders, no later than in 2004. The provisions of Directive 440, which were in force before the amendments were in force, were more restrictive. Free access to railway infrastructure is only possible for carriers providing services of international combined transport and certain services of international rail freight transport. The same restrictions are contained in the law in force and should therefore be amended in this part. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law, however, contains a safeguard that the free access to the Slovenian railway network is valid after Slovenia is admitted to full membership of the European Union or until the date set by the rules of the European acquis. The third reason for amending and supplementing the current railway law is a more precise definition of public goods to be provided by the State in relation to the above-mentioned amendments. In terms of ensuring public interest, as a matter of priority, the highest possible level of mobility of the population, and the satisfaction of the national economy with maximum transport safety, we introduce by means of this law an instrument of concession and concession, which, on behalf of the country with the carrier, is decided by the Agency for those services identified by the State in the field of railway infrastructure maintenance, traffic management and the management of rail passenger and freight transport. The concession contract concluded by the competent contracting party with the contractor shall be concluded for the first time with economic companies, the legal successors of the public undertaking of the Slovenian Railways which carry out this activity. The contract shall be concluded for a period of seven years. The contract shall specify the quality of the services, the extent of the services provided to the contracting authority, the payment for the contractor's work and the conditions under which the contract may be supplemented or amended. This sets out the scope and content of services that provide public goods in the public interest. At the same time, it is also for the sake of public interest that contracts for the provision of these public goods are concluded for the first time with the legal successors of the Slovenian Railways public company. This provides companies with certain protection against other providers of these services that may occur on the Slovenian market. The public interest with such a provision of the law is that the law provides that the work will be done by those who are doing this work in the Slovenian territory now and that the workers working in this activity will be provided with work. In the context of business recovery, these companies will have to be trained to perform in the open market, where they will successfully compete for the work expected of them by the State which has to provide public goods. The public interest of such a provision of the law is that competition reduces prices and thus costs of the state budget in order to achieve the objective of ensuring the public goods to be provided by the State in rail transport. This also provides for provisions of the European Union acquis requiring demonopolisation in the provision of public services, the provision of goods provided by public services in the free market of services and the liberalisation of the provision of public services. These are the three basic reasons for the adoption of the law in question and the individual solutions are explained in more detail both in the introduction and in the explanations of the provisions of this Act. Therefore, if we want to regulate rail transport in the Republic of Slovenia to the satisfaction of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia as users of rail passenger services on the one hand and taxpayers on the other; to the satisfaction of the Slovenian economy as a user of rail freight transport services; then to the satisfaction of employees in the Slovenian rail transport system, all with a view to ensuring the economic, environmental and social sustainable development of the rail transport system as well as the society as a whole. We are also convinced for the period following the integration into the European Union that this law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act is still meaningful and necessary and is therefore supported by the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u12	Respectable present. True, what they say is that each eye has its own painter, and it is true that people see things through different aspects. We take more into account, and the others you take less into account. For some, it is only important that the bill-maker, despite the name of the whole government, comes from one option and then the law is already good. We say the opposite in the Slovenian National Party. We argue that the bill before us shows the fact that this country, this government, has no idea what will happen to Slovenian railways in the future. To privatize them as soon as possible and to allow foreigners, especially Germans and Austrians, into our railway market. And that, in exchange for God's public peace, I would like to cover my back with a law like that. Instead of facing the biggest problem that is taking place within the organisation, the Slovenian Railways should be around the status issue, which allows for the determination of guilt, responsibility and funding. In this country, we will not be able to say that a particular company can do well in Europe if we meet completely conflicting legal statuses such as public company d.d. This structure is shown both at the local level and at the state level. And the National Assembly was once not prepared to speak up on this dilemma. As we know, equity companies form a law on companies and belong to capital companies. In other words, their motto of capital creation is that shareholders decide to invest their equity in these companies in return for capital creation. On the other hand, we are talking about a public undertaking which is subject to the Law on Economic Public Services and where the main purpose of the action is to ensure public interest. And the provision of public interest is by no means profit creation based on the calculation of input costs and expenditure, so that a price is obtained. And as long as we have this kind of monitoring and organisation of work in this loving country, for example, economic operators on the market, both owned by the state and owned by the local community, we will not go anywhere, but we will always be fighting around our axis and having the feeling that if we adopt law today, we have done something, just to adopt law. But of course, this is a thing that should be brought into the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in a slightly more serious way than what we are talking about today. We all know what has been done and what has also been done to the government coalition in this National Assembly on the proposal of the government to do when adopting the agenda in connection with the privatisation of Slovenian railways: by what procedure, by whom to release and to what area. We say in the Slovenian National Party: the complete nonsense today is the adoption of this law, which will bear three elements. For the first time, we will all wash our hands together and say: “So, now we have a new organizational form.” In fact, we're just going to rename it: it's not going to be X anymore, but it's going to be Y. And to be sure, or to be confused, it is one who will also be given new powers through this name. No, it's just a speech about different funding and washing hands. On the other hand, all the speakers before me have, I don't know, missed or deliberately examined, I think that one of the most important parts of this law, because if we are in a legal state, which is what we like to say - and this dictatorship is on page 11 of the Rapporteur under the chapter Objectives and proposed solutions. The objectives and proposed solutions sent to us by the Secretary-General - he is signed under the law as per every law - and in which he says that one of the objectives of this law is to reduce employees. Please! We can't agree to this in the Slovenian National Party. And if we can talk in part about transformation and about the different structure of employees in the state administration, we cannot put this on the shoulders of those who have nothing with this country, but directly implement direct instructions, namely, they are employees in the Slovenian Railways. And why are we doing this? The long - term view the government intended to bring to this city through is simply privatisation. Of course, it's cheaper to sell and drop Austrians and Germans on our market. These will be the future owners of that part of the Slovenian Railways - freight, of course, which will be the only competitor. And if this is the basic motto of the Slovenian government, which turned out to be already in other privatisations, then it is also reasonable to ask what the representative or minister said at the outset: "preparation for the euro market". So we know what will be the preparation for the euro market: to let everyone out of hand, to reduce Slovenian employees and everything that is competitive or could be competitive, to give to foreigners. The Slovenian national party, of course, will not participate in this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u14	Mr President, honourable fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The actual situation in the Slovenian Railways, as we have heard in a rather lengthy debate on the infrastructure committee itself, is short-circuited. Slovenian railways, as officials and trade unions have said, now have 65 billion long-term and short-term liabilities, of which 51 billion are out of debt at this time, and it has been said that in these 51 billion Slovenian tolars there are 38 billion due to the acquisition of fast, so-called train pendolinos. There were no real answers to all these matters on the committee. There was, in particular, no response in this sense to the actual business and human resources rehabilitation of this system, which, as the speaker has said before me, is preparing for a reorganisation called privatisation in other words. Personally and even in the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that no European directive practically saves debts and losses, of course it is not there, it is written in our laws and depends on what the Slovenian Government or what the Slovenian Parliament will adopt. In our parliamentary group, we think that debt in such a way, without some real rehabilitation programme, will actually indicate long-term options and tell how it is possible to save Slovenian railways from further losses, so that such debt does not make any sense. And what is the novelty of this law, which we are now talking about, is that in the transitional provisions it gives the agency, which will simply be created, that the current Directorate will be renamed an agency, that it will give this directive the opportunity to rent the necessary resources without the decision of the National Assembly. For this year, we have already reached a decision in Parliament, with 8.2 billion tolars. Similarly, this agency could be indebted in 2003, with these little more than 8 billion Slovenian tolars being then returned to 13 billion. And so, of course, the common Slovenian debt, which is already so very large, will increase, especially if, in Parliament, through various laws, we authorize once a direction, once an administration, once, I don't know, agencies to be able to rent credits. This, of course, gives us an untransparent situation and lack of transparency. Surely we are all who are in this House, for what the government or Mr Minister said in the introduction, when he said that the directives of the European Union and the guidelines of our government are as a master with this property, which we call Slovenian railways, that we get a rail system that will be mobile, which will be rational, which will be as safe as possible and which will require as little tax money as possible. For this we have also worked hard in the opposition party of New Slovenia and we wanted this law to be accompanied by a law talking about the reorganisation of Slovenian railways. So, with the law that talks about the transformation of Slovenian railways, that this law is not adopted by emergency procedure, but that it waits and that on the basis of some general discussion, the current state of affairs is determined. But there was no wish for that. I had the feeling that Members of the ruling coalition, as a bulldozer, had voted over all these proposals and opposition and unions. And now, if I am properly informed from the media, you find yourself in a situation where trade unions with signatures submitted to the President of the National Assembly, demanding that signatures be collected for the previous legislative referendum, in fact, that this other law on transformation, which you wanted to adopt following an urgent procedure, was blocked. I don't know if that was even the kind of desire of the proposers to do so. For the state of the Slovenian railways - every minute they create for one million tolars of loss, - such a state is unsustainable. So this situation cannot last, and with the Slovenian Railways something must be done. So what we demanded in all this is that the government submits to us a rehabilitation programme, that the government submits an analysis of why such a situation has occurred, that the government submits its programme to us, how it will change the Slovenian transport policy, what it intends to do in this direction, that transport on the railway will increase, what it intends to do in this direction, that it will increase the number of passengers, that it will start to operate differently with many railway facilities - I don't know, with permanent facilities, with all the land, with everything that the railway passes through in its infrastructure, telecommunications and other matters. So we didn't get anything out of all of this. There is a desire on the table to resolve the poor financial situation of Slovenian railways quickly through law. I'm not a railroader, I don't know about these things, and I don't understand it, but I'm sure that one law written down in 20 articles can't solve this situation as a law. That's what I'm sure of. It is therefore necessary to change the overall transport policy, which is currently well targeted at road transport, probably because of oil lobbying or someone else in that country. When we discussed the law on transport in this Parliament, we were able to hear from the Automobile Trade Unions that in Slovenia there is a shortage of basic trains with which the railway could carry out transport, truck transport between the port and the Hungarian border. Such a situation is incomprehensible and certainly is the responsibility of the government. We are transporting many things along the roads, many transports that could take place economically, rationally and mainly in the direction of safety on the railway. For instance, let me remind you, when in fact the whole of Western Europe or most of the European Union Member States were closed for the transport of animals due to the emergence of foot-and-mouth disease, we allowed us to continue transporting animals from Hungary peacefully and on the roads, even though it would have made sense at that time to redirect this to rail transport, which is much safer and easier to control than road traffic. In our view, therefore, in the transitional provisions, the indebtedness of an agency, which also, in the opinion of the legislative secretariat, our secretariat, is incomplete and poorly processed, is not to be judged. We are also skeptical that local communities would co-finance rail transport. We can't even imagine how the local communities, which are already being squandered by the country's financial resources, should do so. And we are of course of the opinion that this situation will result in the entry into force of Article 5 of this proposed law and that, on the basis of this Article, there will be unequal treatment of our citizens, because certain trains will be caused by irrationality and because the state will not want to subsidise these transports, they will simply have to stop driving, because the municipalities do not have these funds, and so will the additional Slovenian countryside, which is already in one way or another, through many other laws, will continue to be struck again. At this point, we cannot support such a concept of law, but we would expect the government to respond to what I have pointed out if I say again: what is the business rehabilitation plan of the Slovenian railway system, what is your plan with the human resources rehabilitation, which is also mentioned in the privatisation law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Bogomir Zammernik, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would not reduce the precious minutes by repeating what has already been said in the preface and certain things, of course, I absolutely agree. Maybe just a fix. The railroad doesn't create 1 million tolars of loss every minute, as I've noticed. It creates every hour. However, it is also a matter of self - concern. It would only touch on the provisions of Article 5 which, in the third paragraph, provides that, in the case of the requirements of the inhabitants of a particular area, the local community may also provide it, in accordance with its needs and options, with the increased supply of transport provided by the service referred to in the preceding paragraph. This is an elegant way of transferring responsibility back to the local community. Let us remember how many such obligations we have already committed from country to local community. At the same time, of course, we have not passed on resources that would allow this to happen. Remember, I think that this year, when some of the railways were being rationalised and people were turning to us - you were getting all the Members in a row - that, for God's sake, these transports should not be cut off. I think there have been cases in Primorske, from Velenje to Celje, somewhere else. With this provision you will now elegantly refer these people to the congregations and say: “Look! I therefore propose that the proposers study this provision and transfer the resources by which you can do so by transferring these powers or tasks. Now, because it is still a while, and since Mr Kelemina was a little shorter than he wanted to be, I would ask him to give the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u17	Well, I will make this exception because the Rules of Procedure are new and because many Members are obviously not sufficiently familiar with how this time counts. So, even though this has already been said, I will say it again. In fact, each party shall declare the number of minutes and within these minutes an introductory explanation, or presentation of the group of Members, shall be used by those members of the party who have applied for the debate. Mr Kelemina, when he went to the pay phone, showed me or asked me a question, so, more with his hand, if it was five minutes, then he turned around and I couldn't tell him that the Social Democratic Party had 15 minutes at this point, and of course he spoke for five minutes and therefore he stayed ten minutes with Mr Zamernik. This is just to explain why I would allow it now, and therefore I give Mr Kelem's word for the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, we will be more effective next time. I would only try to ask the government further now or suggest to it that it might really consider setting a minimum volume of traffic in Slovenia in a document to be sent to the National Assembly or in another document - I do not know in which document - which will be designated or to be defined as passenger traffic in the public interest. For I cannot imagine that the real local community would now have some lines for which they would be interested or, as set out in Article 7, say, this law, that if the controller does not want to, he will not want to - "night", writes even, I think, the word "night" used is to do this, he does not want to do it, or he cannot provide a line - that then the local community will be able to do it. I would argue or wish that at least some minimum volume of this passenger traffic, which is in the public interest, would be determined by a regulation. If this is possible, then all the other, subsequent things where local communities might wish to be additional transports or whatever, I do not mind, although, of course, it is also necessary to change the law and provide the municipalities with these additional funds. This must certainly be resolved. I would simply issue the same criticism, as I said before, to an existing authority that has not done everything in this period, in order for Slovenian railways to be effective and also modern, and that today, or at least in some future years, when this European market will open up, they will be ready to act equally with other operators. Look at just one thing, and it's certainly a matter of management policy that worked uncoordinatedly. We got information if this is true that we have thirteen types of locomotives in Slovenia. Can you imagine what this means, honourable Members? That's impossible. I wouldn't say anything if there were two rows or three, not thirteen rows. This is not the country in Europe, and these are the kicks that have happened in this state since the acquisition of certain new trains and so on, which, of course, today bear the burden of Slovenian railways. Without the rehabilitation of the entire project, it is not possible to expect some profitability as to how they intend to write down these debts or turn them into capital shares, the question is, there is no comprehensive transport policy in the field of Slovenian Railways. We do not object to a certain number of employees being reduced in the state administration, as you say, as some may now tell us, even though we are a social Democratic party, not in the railway itself as such. It is certainly necessary to rationalise this, but at the same time a programme of surplus workers, over-employment and so on must be put in place. I am firmly convinced that in the agency you now have in Maribor, in the last two years, you have hired a huge number of people and put this information on the table where you took it from. I know they're also new to the railroad. Why, if the passport is too much? Why are new people hiring, why aren't they retraining? These programs are not modern. You haven't given us enough data or data either. It is not clear from these explanations how Slovenian railways will develop in accordance with a European transport policy. What will be the realisation of these financial obligations for the return or what it was - which are written, if I am not mistaken, in Article 34 of the old law - how all of this was realized, what the obligations are in fact, what the delays are, where this will fall, who will have to pay it all. A lot, a lot of things aren't solved, like. There is also one very important thing where today the government is unable to make some economic impact as owner in the Slovenian Railways, if, say, it allows Luka Koper to say only one example. Port Koper drives at 30% lower prices than other transport services, which are calculated by rail. The port of Koper creates, of course, profit in this way, we know that it generates high profits, with which it could then privatise certain parts of the railway at the end stage, what is interesting to it, and that it could carry out these transports on its own and also collect large profits. Here's the whole kind of ambiguity, and I hope you'll give this information below and give these programs. If this consensus and this data are not available and, of course, agreed at all levels, including with the social partners, I think the adoption of this law will be very difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Lenko, DeSUS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since my predecessors have already mainly illuminated the content of this law, both positive and negative, my implementation will be relatively short and only more principled in nature. Personally, I think that the proposal of this law is good, that it has actually intervened in difficult matter, which is not easy to solve, and I think we need to give the government the opportunity to resolve this matter. However, this bill will certainly have to be upgraded on the Infrastructure Committee and added to some other things so that it will be further improved. It should also be supported in particular because it is complemented by the law on the design and privatisation of Slovenian railways and should in fact now be treated as a twin, so that we can improve and bring good things into both. This law, as well as the law on the transformation of Slovenian railways, in fact puts Slovenian railways into a market relationship, which, of course, we all decided together. By adopting this law and the law on the transformation of Slovenian railways, we are also adapting ourselves to the requirements of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič has the floor. [[He's not in the hall.]] Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. [[He's not here either.]] We have thus exhausted the list of Members and Members who wish to discuss. I give my word to the Minister. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I have listened with attention to all the debaters, both those who represented the views of individual Members and of course individual Members. I have already said in the introduction that we will try to take this debate into account when further working or finishing, as was last said, in constructive cooperation with the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, which, of course, we want to draw up a law for a second reading, so that it is as we expect it to be. I agree, of course, with the debate that it will be difficult to replace or resolve financial obligations that are either on the watch or hover over Slovenian railways in a very short time. Of course, I must agree that the country was somehow machete to Slovenian railways, as far as investment is concerned, in particular as regards investment in railway infrastructure. I also agree, of course, that we need to organise or assign to the Agency, or to assign to it such tasks and, of course, by the Ministry and by the Slovenian Railways, the tasks that are now on these two bodies, and, of course, those tasks that the Directorate is carrying out today, to ensure that this knowledge ensures the best functioning of the railway system in its entirety. This will also provide all the data mentioned and requested today, as it relates to employment in recent years and, of course, in detail also to financial obligations and financial burdens. Within the framework of a special working group composed of representatives of both government or individual departments, Slovenian Railways and, of course, civil society, in particular representatives of both universities, a programme of business and human resources rehabilitation of Slovenian Railways is being prepared. This includes, of course, the new administration, which started its work early this month. We predict that this programme will be completed somewhere in the first half of October or October of this year. This programme will also provide answers to many of the questions that have been mentioned in this area today. The problem, the possibility of inclusion in finance and the organisation of individual smaller lines was also mentioned against the end. Last year, I must say that the State has agreed, the State or the Ministry or Directorate for Rail Transport, to agree on a specific contract with the Slovenian Railways, the type and scope of work for passenger transport. [[...]] These are annual contracts, which are agreed between the two institutions, which are between the owner and between the representative of the State or the public and between the contractor, each year. When it was prepared last year, on a professional basis, a proposal to cut down or cut down individual lines or individual lines, we then made a constructive arrangement with individual local communities or groups of local communities for those who still remained alive. Already in those talks, it was of great interest that some local communities were willing to participate in the organisation of individual local routes in a similar way as local communities were committed to organising their urban transport and urban transport. Of course, this raised questions about how to resolve this in a financial sense. This is also a proposal for additional laws. All these questions that have been raised will be thoroughly examined, submitted to the National Assembly and tried to reach a good law with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. Since we still have a few minutes left, and I don't have any Members and Members on the list to discuss it, I ask you, does anyone else want a word? Three. So, Mr. Kelemina, Mr. Mamić, Mr. Sok. We have twenty minutes left, a little less, so in five minutes please, if you can hold your debate. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Look, I didn't mention it before, but you yourself mentioned, Mr Minister, that in fact this bill, which has already been tabled or prepared somewhere in December 2001 or at least published in the December 2001 Report, is no longer up to date in its definition. You yourself have mentioned that all these things will have to be corrected. But I'm still wondering, there are certain things you can't say you've changed before some other laws have been passed. At least that's what I think, I don't know. For example, as is the case under the new law, if you make a holding, then the public enterprise of the Slovenian Railways will no longer have these other provisions. I don't know how you're gonna handle this. This seems very important to me, but I'm telling you, this will then be worked out in the second treatment of this matter and also the amendments. I don't know if you've answered me what document you're going to try to make some kind of program, a minimum, minimum passenger traffic volume that would still be in the public interest. All other things, I do not object to local communities being involved in this project, but to some minimum volume of passenger transport set out in the public interest, which should be submitted to the national assembly or where this will be reflected in the document. This is very important, according to my assessment, because then there will also be a possible comment and perhaps also a requirement to increase or reduce, say, the number or volume of passenger traffic in the public interest. That's very important, I think. I mean, what's this all about? If we write this in this document, whatever it will be and wherever it will be written down, it cannot happen, for example, that it might be possible for a longer period, within ten years or whatever else, to cease providing certain public goods or even to achieve some public interest. You have provided for this law if there is no longer any need for their implementation, then these programmes or the provision of these public goods will be abolished. This can't happen. We must have such a transport policy because we have already said that, as you have already said, it will ensure some flexibility, appropriateness, mobility of the population, so that it can also begin in accordance with all the other guidelines of this country on the environmental problems that arise with regard to road transport and so on, so that we can actually then achieve this public interest in the sense that we really try to make this system as acceptable to the passengers as possible and that then all the other interests that the government somehow wants or the state wants to achieve globally in order to be realized. Well, so much is possible for further explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We have heard a lot about this point of the agenda and an uneducated person would say that the material is really well prepared to be good and so on. I find it useful, the law is useful, and it will be welcome, it is necessary, but not the way we now have before us. The government always prepares things its own way and knows that it will go through, so you don't get white hair around it, and that's how it's going to go today. But what I want to say is what actually makes me feel sorry for myself. Every year we talk about a national programme, and not just about railways, but in general, we sign, we give some guarantees and so on. Debts accumulate as they return and when they return, and so on, or we know roughly, but what consequences this will have, and we probably know. Let's just say that if I were sure that things were going to go as well as they have to, because you can't commit to any of the things that will guarantee that everything will go as well as we imagined and what we want. In all the debate, I actually miss someone telling us what the vision of this rail network is in the next ten years, for example, when we get to the green branch. Now, about the second track of Koper-Givics, almost no one is saying anything; last year, they gave us some numbers, how much it's going to cost and so on, and we know what that means to us. Without an answer to this question, I simply cannot imagine that we can vote on anything. With the best of will and the pure conscience of this law, I really cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I would just like to correct one of my remarks, which I have been reminded of by my fellow Member, Mr Zamernik. And I guess I did say that Slovenian railways create a million tolars of loss every minute. I correct this statement because it was explicitly stated on the board by the administration and the unions that it was every hour. Nevertheless, the loss is enormous. However, I would like - when the Minister said that he would answer the questions raised - to actually answer what is in the structure of this loss, which is why this loss is. For I can add to this that maybe four years ago, every Sunday, when the students rushed from Ormož to Ljubljana, he took the almost full train. Today, these students drive with different means of transport. Did the railway do this to keep this trend going? I have a feeling that something has not been done here and that in fact in this transport policy the government is not following current trends and is not trying to adjust itself to actually help improve the economic success of this state system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted this supplementary list. The Minister does not wish to reply or does not sign up for the debate. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, the assembly will vote in the afternoon following in the framework of the votes of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We'll start at 11:35 p.m. on the 11th. Thank you very much to the Minister and associate for attending the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, 11.35. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. I welcome the representative of the government, Mr Igor Soltes, Director of the Public Procurement Office and Mr Blanco Primec, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, there are 18 members with their first signed magi. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Igor Soltes. Excuse me, Mr. Anderlich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u31	I propose that you quote that article of the Rules of Procedure by which someone other than the Minister and the Secretary of State may act on behalf of the Government at a meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u32	So you're disputing. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u33	That's right. The reasons for the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u34	Article 235. Article 235 of the third paragraph states: At a meeting of the National Assembly, he may represent the Government of the Minister or Chairman of the Government Service designated by the Government. In the event of absence or detention, he may replace the Minister of State or the Head of the Authority in the composition of the Ministry and his Deputy Head of Government. So it's clear. I ask Mr Soltes to present his explanation, i.e. his supplementary explanation. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The substance of today's debate and presentations are amendments and additions to the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. It is therefore a law governing legal protection in public procurement proceedings. I may first say that this is not a fundamental law, that is, a law governing the award of public contracts, but only for another law governing separate, i.e. only legal protection. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption and purpose of the law were, in particular, to say first, the required alignment with European Union law and, of course, to harmonise the practice that has emerged through the procedures or now we are talking about audit procedures, as the State Audit Commission has also pointed out in its report on action in recent years. Some provisions of the current law are therefore deleted, some amended, some supplemented. It may be noted at the outset that some of the provisions which are amended and supplemented are intended for the functioning of the State Audit Commission, in the sense that this independence of the Audit Commission is further strengthened by amendments in the sense that the members of this institution are independent, of course exclusively bound to the Constitution and the law and that their early resolution procedure is also the same as for the discharge of judges. It is if I continue, even for a proposed change, which is quite a novelty. It is, however, that we have thought about giving active legitimacy to the audit request to the State as well. As you know, the audit request can only be made by those who are interested in obtaining a specific public contract or who consider that the procurement procedure has been breached, if I say so, its interest, particularly in this respect, is capital and partly legal. However, in the event that, say, the market has reached a certain agreement and even if the procurement procedures have been manifestly violated, the State has not been able to protect the so-called public interest in relation to the present law, so we propose that active legitimacy be given to the competent authority in the audit procedures. The proposal states that this authority may be a public procurement office, thus, of course, the value here, if we are talking about public interest, is related to the value of those public contracts whose value is greater than that for which publication is also required in the European Community's publication. Some of the provisions are also intended for the procedure itself, i.e. to shorten deadlines, because, as you know, one of the basic principles of the review procedure is also the principle of the speed of the procedure. For this reason, it is proposed to reduce the time limits both on the part of the State Audit Commission when deciding on the merits of the application and on the other hand also on the part of the contracting authority. The very cost of the audit procedure is also a rather important novelty. As you know, the contracting authority is obliged or the applicant is obliged to pay a fee in the event of an application for a review. The provision so far was relatively unclear. To this end, the proposed changes have unified the amount of the fee and for this reason we do not believe that the uncertainty in this part can occur, but that, of course, the purpose of the fee is still achieved, that is to dissuade those who do not invest in their insurance, if I say so, capital administrative rights, but only for chicanosical reasons. Perhaps even to the end the part concerning the work of adapting to the rules or legal order of the European Union. Thus, the change or novelty relates to the regulation of the procedure before the European Commission in the event of infringements of the acquis of the European Union. The so-called calming procedure and the aspiration procedure are properly regulated. They will both enter into force with full membership of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. Perhaps only to conclude by adding the competence of the State Audit Commission or the contracting authority to report or issue a post-audit report to the audit committee [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] to remedy the infringements. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. The word is Leopold Grošelj, a combined list. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u37	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome. The field of public procurement is relatively new in the Republic of Slovenia, as the procurement procedure was raised in law only in 1997 with the adoption of the first Public Procurement Act, which means that we are a country with a short tradition of regulating this area. Despite the short tradition of the public procurement system, it can be found that the effects of the introduction of the public procurement system are also seen in practice. The change in legislation in this area is relatively common, which is detected in other countries, both EU Member States and candidate countries. As early as 1999, a law on the revision of the procurement procedure governing legal protection was adopted in procurement procedures, which eliminated the indiscretions and inconsistencies of the part of the Public Procurement Act, which defined the revision of the procurement procedure. Although the Law on the revision of the public procurement procedure has successfully achieved one of the main objectives, this is the provision of adequate legal protection, it has shown at a certain time some shortcomings to be addressed. Since its entry into force, there has been a need to amend certain provisions which are unclear or inadequate or are ineffective. The proposed amendments and additions concern both systemic issues and procedural refinements only and the addition of provisions relating to the adaptation of the law on the revision of public procurement procedures to the law of the European Union. It is therefore appropriate, according to our assessment, that systemic changes relate primarily to the organisation and functioning of the State Audit Commission by ensuring that the Presidents and members of the State Audit Commission are independent and exclusively bound by the Constitution and the law and that their early resolution procedure is as it applies to the discharge of judges. A very important change is the abolition of the Institute of Audit Experts in the audit process, as weaknesses, including the financial consequences of the establishment of the Institute of Audit Experts, have proved to be far greater than their benefits. It shall also be noted on a proposal to supplement the law whereby the active legitimacy of the audit procedure is also exercised by the Public Procurement Office in the event that the value of the tender exceeds the value for which the publication is mandatory in the Official Gazette of the European Community. An important proposed supplement also relates to a post-revision procedure whereby the contracting authority must make a mandatory addition, in the event that the audit application finds that the State Audit Board has a report on corrected irregularities, which the Director of the Public Procurement Office has also specifically highlighted in his introductory implementation. As regards procedural changes, however, they relate mainly to the uniformity and transparency of the proceedings and conduct of the procedures, both of the contracting authorities, of the tenderers and of the State Audit Commission. It is also necessary to mention the change in the costs of the audit procedure regarding the level of the fee, since it is independent of the value of the contract under the law, which is an essential novelty in relation to the regulation in force and also an important novelty of the proposed amendment to the procedure before the European Commission which regulates the conduct of the contracting authorities and the competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia in the event that the European Commission considers that there has been a breach of the legal order of the European Community in the procurement process. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that these changes and additions represent a cross-section of the needs created by the practice that can contribute to even more effective legal protection, which ensures a higher degree of confidence in the legal order of public procurement. In the parliamentary group, we find that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further consideration, and we will also vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko, Social Democratic Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I say hello to everyone. Public procurement represents a large part of the consumption of budgetary or public money, and it is therefore important that this spending is carried out transparently and in accordance with pre-defined and well-known rules. This should enable interested tenderers to apply for tenders and to obtain contracts under the same conditions and within a reasonable period of time. However, this reasonable time limit for the award of the contract is at least as important for the contracting authority as the contracting authority sets a timetable, prepares a financial structure and provides all other activities related to the contract. The practice so far has shown that there are difficulties and complications in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, as well as the Public Procurement Audit Act, which cause considerable discontent both in the contracting authorities and in the tenderers, and also in the implementation of the audit procedures in the complaint process. Both marriages are interlinked. The provisions of the Public Procurement Act form the basis for determining and deciding on the procedures for the revision of public contracts. The Law on the revision of public procurement procedures is in fact a logical consequence of the provisions and procedures laid down by the Public Procurement Act. The professional public rightly expected that changes and improvements to both laws would be prepared simultaneously. That didn't happen. Thus, we will first deal with tails or consequences, and only later will we determine the starting points and change the basic law. This will be immediately followed by a correction of this very law, which we are now considering. In short, work for work. I think that is not the most meaningful thing to do and that it is better that the changes to both laws be treated at the same time. The change needs to be pursued with soundness of mind and with no need for such haste and unnecessary haste. In most of the relevant points of debate so far, differences between offices and institutions are noticeable, in most of the content sets, which does not give particular strong support to the decision to separate treatment of these two laws. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the government in the field of public procurement should fully follow the decisions of the national assembly which impose on the government to simultaneously prepare amendments and additions, both to the public procurement law and to the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. In the Social Democratic Party, we stress that the basic basis for the legal and economic implementation of public procurement is the clear rules that must be laid down in the law. It is clear from the practice so far that this law does not have the necessary provisions. We are also convinced that the certification of procurement procedures would also help to improve clarity and transparency. And this area is completely neglected in our practice. The amendment of the law and the discussions that had been carried out had a very strong right of the unsuccessful tenderer to appeal and no one touched the contracting authority. No one has spoken about the legal protection of the contracting authority, his rights, unjustified delays and resulting costs and other problems. The audit procedure, which begins with a complaint by at least one of the unsuccessful tenderers, has a particularly adverse effect on the contracting authority, since the initiation of the procedure means the freezing of all activities in the submission and execution of the contract until the decision of the State Audit Commission. In the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, there are relatively often different interpretations of the legality, quality and regularity of the criteria, the completeness of the documentation and deadlines, the clarity of the invitation to tender and some other more or less important reasons. However, it is necessary to say that a number of tenderers are not at all consulted and to clarify the uncertainties of the tender with the tenderer’s contact persons. It's easy to write an offer. What is even more unacceptable, even for those offers that are among the most difficult and expensive construction operations, all providers often fail to see the construction site. Then there's a complication. In particular, the Commission for the opening of tenders and the origin of the contractor are exposed to great pressure, as forgettable and inaccurate tenderers do not recognise their errors. Quite or even most of the comments relate to formalities and to the analysis of tenders, i.e. to the application of the criteria and criteria contained in the invitation to tender. The interest of successful tenderers is clear. The application of arguments or grounds for repealing the procedures shall give rise to works and at least another possibility of re-enlisting and renewing the hope of a different outcome of the procedure. The relatively low cost or fee is also an important reason for so many complaints about public procurement elections. This is relatively high for small-value contracts, since in some cases it is even higher than the expected profits of the provider. However, 200,000 tolls were either discounted in large-value tenders, such as some 10 million or 100 million, or up to a few billion tolls, a completely insignificant cost, both for the payer and for the one who, after the completion of the procedure, covers this cost. There are a lot of procedures that have been put in place that have failed. Therefore, they were tabled on an unwarranted basis and failed tenderers merely wanted to prove themselves as tireless fighters for the rights and well-being of their society. At the same time, at least 1 to 2 months of unnecessary delays were caused by the serious contracting authority and its contractor. However, the legislation allows for this assessment, it is also necessary and reasonable. Nevertheless, I believe that it is necessary to form or bind complaints fees in a certain percentage to the value of the contract. The tax should be substantially higher. For the largest investments, it is expected to be at least around 0.5% of the value allocated. This would significantly reduce the number of unfounded or insufficiently substantiated complaints or complaints. It might also suggest considering penalties for responsible persons and commissions who make professional or other, perhaps even deliberate errors in the process of opening and selecting. It is precisely from the proposal for corrections and the addition of this law that the lack of confidence in the contracting authority can be understood. The legal proposal allows the complainant to appeal directly to the State Audit Commission if he fails to complete the audit application within the prescribed three-day period. It is understandable that such a complaint is possible if the complainant has supplemented it, but failed with the proposal, or considered that the contracting authority imposes unnecessary and unjustified additions to it. However, in the event that the complainant has not reacted at all and has not even replied to the contracting authority, this is incomprehensible and I think this is unacceptable. However, it is even more incomprehensible to initiate a procedure in the case of a person who does not have active legitimacy, or if the complainant delays the time limit of the complaint before the contracting authority. In these cases, I believe that the procedure should end with the contracting authority and the documentation could be sent to the State Audit Commission or to the Public Procurement Office. This may, on the basis of the assessment of the procedure and the active legitimacy within the prescribed time limit, initiate the audit procedure and terminate the contract. In such cases, where the tenderer does not meet all the conditions laid down in the rules, the contracting authority should be trusted. However, if the contracting authority is not entrusted to the contracting authority under such clear and unambiguous circumstances, the contracting authority shall be in a very unequal position. These solutions should be amended as they favour the complaint too much or even lead unsuccessful tenderers to appeal The audit must answer in no uncertain terms whether the contract law has been breached or whether it has only been misused or the criteria set out in the tendering documents have been met. In the event of a breach of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act or procedure, it is necessary to repeal the contracting authority’s selection procedure. However, in cases where criteria and criteria for evaluation or scoring are misused, I think there are two options. The first option is for the State Audit Commission to ensure that the incorrect application of the criteria does not affect the order or choice of tenderer. In this case, it would make sense to confirm the contracting authority's decision. Alternatively, the State Audit Commission concludes that the incorrect application of the criteria affects the order or choice. In this case, it is possible to revoke the procedure or to give the State Audit Board the opportunity to determine a different order and a different choice and that it may even definitively decide and select the tenderer. It may also make sense for the contracting authority to decide, in the light of the decisions of the State Audit Commission, to take account of it and to adopt its choice, or to decide on a longer route and to repeat the tendering procedure. We also support the proposal that an active legitimacy for the submission of an application for a review in public procurement be recognised by the Competition Protection Office, as other concerns and abuses that do not fall within the competence of the State Audit Commission may arise in addition to their comments and complaints about the technical regularity of the procedure. The processes of capital integration and the arrival of external competition also bring certain risks on the part of the tenderers, which are or will be particularly burdensome for the contracting authorities. We therefore believe that it is necessary to reconsider and make sense to extend the control system to the Office for the Protection of Competition. We also believe that it is not necessary for specific cases, i.e. for commissioned cases dealt with by the State Audit Commission, not only that there is no need, but also that it does not make sense to introduce a post-audit procedure, because others are already doing this well enough for certain institutions, especially the Court of Auditors, and the authorities in the composition of the Ministry of Finance. However, it is clearly necessary to ensure the full independence of the State Audit Commission and to prevent any impact of the executive policy, and it is therefore appropriate that the procedure for the appointment and discharge of the members of the State Audit Commission be carried out in the National Assembly, independently of the Government. The big problem is also the failure to comply with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, which often happens to certain budgetary users. This is evident from the annual reports of the Court of Auditors. These cases are common and are repeated. The problem is not only that they are not carried out under the public procurement law, but also that the appeal and audit are difficult. A more serious approach is certainly needed in this area. The aim of all procurement procedures is to make it transparent that they are swift, that the complainant and the contracting authority are equal parties to the proceedings. However, procedures usually, irrespective of the outcome of the audit, extend the deadlines, so we consider it reasonable to clear up the procedures of all unjustified reasons for the retention of the contract and also to assess that it would make sense to reconsider these comments. The parliamentary group of the bill will not support the bill in particular because the conclusions of the National Assembly have not been taken into account, because this law covers the superficial and inconsistent application of the criteria and recommendations of the European Community and, in particular, not because the State Audit Commission is not defined as independent, but as an independent Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The word is Mr Cyril Pucko, liberal democracy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, representatives of the government, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleagues. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, however, entails a number of changes in scope, which do not constitute significant changes to the current system of protection of the rights of tenderers. It is said that there is no reduction or inequality in procurement procedures. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Group, we believe that these are changes that are urgently needed because of the consequences or demands of daily practice and at the same time represent a full alignment with the acquis of the European Union. These changes and additions are due, in particular, to the experience of the State Audit Commission. At that time, it was shown which provisions were redundant and which provisions of the law should be more clearly recorded so that there was no doubt in the implementation of the audit procedures. In the Parliament of the Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we therefore support the changes relating to the harmonisation of terminology with the Public Procurement Act adopted a year later, and the changes related to the more precise way in which the President and members of the State Audit Commission are appointed and may be released, as required by the Directives of the European Union. We also think that we have made meaningful changes, thus reducing some deadlines in the context of the decision-making of the contracting authority and the State Audit Commission when the audit request is submitted. Furthermore, a more precise determination of the amount of the fee to be paid by the applicant of the audit application is necessary in our view. The provision so far has been incorrectly implemented due to inadvertent reading. We also believe that the urgent changes related to the acts and their content adopted by the State Audit Commission are, in particular, those relating to or relating to the decision-making of the audit request. We also believe that it is necessary to change the definition of certain powers of the Public Procurement Office that the Ministry of Finance or the State Audit Commission has so far had and to define additional tasks of the Public Procurement Office. At the same time, we think it makes sense to regulate the conciliation process and to have a new procedure before the European Commission, it is called for the setting of bodies and deadlines for the communication of the data required by the European Commission. These provisions, which I have just discussed, will be implemented in accordance with the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. It follows from everything that Members of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia propose or support the proposed amendments and additions to this law, and we believe that it is necessary to adopt it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you, Comrade Cyril Pucko. The presentation of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, Mr Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti, is on the table, but it is not in the Chamber. I therefore give the floor to Dr Andre Bajuk to present the position of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the New Slovenia Group, we hope that the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will only bring some good things in the beginning, which will be in the public interest. This is to allow the re-opening of the law on the revision of public procurement procedures to achieve the fundamental objectives of its amendment, namely to comply with the objectives of the European Union Directives governing public procurement and to ensure full respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At the outset, I must point out that, in our assessment, it is irresponsible that the government, together with the amendments to the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, has also not prepared the necessary amendments to the basic law that can give rise to the legal and economic and effective implementation of public procurement. This is the Public Procurement Act 1. By its conclusions at its 9th session, on 25 October 2001, the National Assembly commissioned it to prepare amendments and additions to both laws. The professional public and, in particular, the public procurement actors, both the tenderers and the contracting authorities, have found in their deliberations, immediately after the entry into force of the Public Procurement Act 1, that its provisions are not sufficiently clear, that some are not even feasible and that they do not follow the objectives of the European Directives. It has been almost a year since then, and the participants in public procurement consultations, who want transparency and equal opportunities for all, can only learn from the consultations at this time that the Ministry of Finance has appointed a working group to prepare amendments to the Public Procurement Act 1 that it has already been declared too large after one meeting, so that it has been formed by a larger group. What's this guy doing? Nobody knows for now. It is clear that the basic basis for the legitimate and economic implementation of public procurement is only a clear and unequivocal law on public procurement, in line with both the objectives of the European Union directives and with our legal order. In New Slovenia we therefore demand the government's response to explain where the reasons for delaying amendments to the Public Procurement Act 1 are, to say how this law is included in its work plan and how it will involve representatives of the public who know the problems of implementing the Public Procurement Act 1 in practice. In Novi Slovenija, we cannot accept the current practice in the field of public procurement, which clearly favours the sympathizers of ruling elites and is a source of widespread corruption. Of course, it's not officially there because we don't find her. In accordance with the previous Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, as a parent, has already carried out one hearing. Members belonging to the post were uncritically in favour of government solutions and the opposition listened to all parties, particularly the warnings of the independent profession. It also requested a public presentation of the opinions. The involvement of the institutions was very satisfactory with regard to the presence, less with regard to the actual public presentation of opinions. Nevertheless, the record of this debate or magnetogram clearly shows what the problems of public procurement in Slovenia are. I will therefore try to present, in particular, problems or uncoordinated areas that have been raised on the basis of questions raised in the public presentation of opinions. The Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures does not consistently implement the Directives of the European Union, and according to distinguished legal professionals it is also not fully consistent with our legal order or the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on the revision of the procurement procedure is not in line with Article 92.13(2) of Directive 92.13 EEC, which states and quotes here: "Member States must ensure the effective implementation of the decisions of the authorities responsible for the public procurement procedures. Verification may be carried out either by specific inspection bodies or by judicial authorities. Where the authorities responsible for verifying the procurement procedure are not of a judicial nature, it is necessary to ensure that any alleged illegal action or any alleged error in the exercise of the powers of that authority may be subject to judicial review or verification by another body which is a judicial body under Article 177 of the Rome Agreement and which is independent of both the contracting authority and the verification authority. Members of this independent body, of a judicial nature, shall be appointed under the same conditions as are applicable to members of the judicial authority, as regards who appoints them and as regards the duration of the mandate and the withdrawal. Our country has decided to entrust the procurement procedures with the specific authority, and this is the State Audit Commission. Since the State Audit Commission is not a judicial body, it is clear from the provisions of the Directives that its decisions must be verifiable. However, the judicial review of decisions can only be carried out in our order by the courts, since our legal order does not know other independent bodies of a judicial nature, the so-called tribunals. However, European law does not provide an answer as to whether the judicial protection of the decisions of the State Audit Commission should be ensured in an administrative dispute or civil proceedings. Secondly, whether the submission of a request for judicial protection should delay the conclusion of a contract by choice on the invitation to tender. This is a question of the suspension effect of the request for judicial protection; this, of course, means that each country must find solutions for this in its own legal order. In meeting the objectives of the Directives of the European Union, it is therefore a question of how to ensure judicial protection through the allocations of the State Audit Commission. The current law expressly excludes judicial proceedings against the decision of the State Audit Commission, and there is no regular or exceptional remedy for the decision of the State Audit Commission. On the other hand, Article 23 of the Law on the revision of the public procurement procedure only sends a request for review to the applicant which opposes the decision of the State Audit Commission to sue the court for damages from the contracting authority. This means that in this compensation dispute, the applicant must first prove that the State Audit Commission has acted incorrectly and on this basis claims compensation. In doing so, the Court cannot annul or replace the decision of the State Audit Commission. That these are not questions of cat tears, but I would just like to add that we have recently read in the media, that the court has already decided in some such compensation claim, namely a large public contract, and this is a decision related to the telephone, 45 billion Slovenian tolls to the complainant. 45 billion. Too bad the Minister of Public Finance isn't here to ask him where he's gonna take it from. So, these are not just some academic discussions: they have their consequences, and we need to be aware of these consequences even if we are just reading a magnetogram and no one is listening to what I'm saying. Representatives of the State Audit Commission reject the judicial protection of their decisions with the need to implement the principle of the speed of the audit procedure. Surely this principle, the speeds, must be followed in a consistent and, above all, effective manner. It should also be noted that Article 1 of Council Directive 927237 EEC provides that Member States must take measures to ensure that the decisions of contracting authorities can be effectively and in particular verified as quickly as possible, but in accordance with the conditions set out below by that Directive. One such condition is that the State must ensure judicial review of the decisions of the verification body, which in our case is the State Audit Commission. The participant in the public presentation of opinions, Dr Rajko Pirnat, felt that today Slovenia does not provide legal protection for the decisions of the State Audit Commission. He pointed out that the possibility of an action for compensation had not yet been provided for in court proceedings and pointed out that there were two completely different constitutional rights: one was the right to judicial protection against decisions of the State authorities and the other was the right to compensation. Therefore, these two rights are enshrined in two separate Articles 23 and 26 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and treated independently. The possibility of an action for compensation granted to citizens by law in any case of unlawful or unlawful operation of a State or other persons of public law cannot be equated with the prevention or elimination of an unlawful act, which would allow for an appeal against the decision of the State Audit Commission. Therefore, the answer to the question of how to ensure the judicial protection of the decisions of the State Audit Commission is directly linked to the question of the procedure by which the State Audit Commission itself decides as the verification body. Since the Directives of the European Union do not provide for a procedure whereby the national audit committee itself, as the verification body or the "review body", must also prescribe this procedure in accordance with its own legal regime. The issue is that the answer to the question of how judicial protection should be regulated is linked to the whole concept of verification of the public procurement procedure carried out by the State Audit Commission. It is a matter of whether the State Audit Commission, as a State authority, should decide on an administrative or judicial procedure by which the courts decide otherwise. The State Audit Commission shall, following the current arrangements, decide on the procedure laid down in the applicable law on the revision of the public procurement procedure, which shall refer to the subsidiary application of the fair procedure. Otherwise, the State Audit Commission shall have detailed procedures laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission, to which this National Assembly has given its consent. The Government is in favour of a fair procedure, based on the duty of the State Audit Commission to protect the interests of tenderers from infringements that contracting authorities may make in the execution of public procurement procedures from the point of view of the normal civil law relationship in which the State or persons of public law appear as buyers of goods or services. The government emphasises that the State Audit Commission is not obliged to protect public interest. The verification of the legality of public procurement in terms of public interest should, in the view of the Ministry of Finance, be the task of other inspection bodies. However, the State Audit Commission, in its concerns for changes to the law, demanded, even in the current or judicial procedure, a clearer definition of competence: that, in the process of verifying the implementation of public contracts, it should also impose on contracting authorities the elimination of other illegalities and irregularities which constitute a breach of the principles of public procurement and thereby safeguard fundamental public interest. On the contrary, the Government sees no need to supplement the powers of the State Audit Commission, as it considers it to be a fair process. The State Audit Commission may already find a violation of the basic principles of procurement, irrespective of whether this is not indicated in the audit application. The general legal principle should be different: in a fair process, it should be decided whether to dissipate or what is a matter of justice and not of other matters. In principle, the State Audit Commission itself advocates that a decision based on a fair procedure is based on the fact that the contract is not an administrative act but an act of operation. However, it considers that, in proceedings initiated at the initiative of public procurement providers, it should also take care of the elimination of those illegalities in which they cannot be alerted either objectively or subjectively. Dr Rajko Pirnat points out that the procurement of goods is only a service of the State or other public law persons indeed an act of operation, but is not an act of operation decided by the State Audit Commission. The decision of the State Audit Commission is a public intervention in the otherwise civil law relationship between the contracting authority and the debtor. This is an act of the authority or State authority, and such a body should be provided with judicial protection in an administrative dispute in accordance with our constitutional regime. Dr Pirnat points out that even if a compromise is maintained that the State Audit Commission is acting in a fair manner, as a State authority, it must have the duty to take account of the legality of the procedure also under official responsibility, and this must be specified in the Law on the State Audit Commission. This is required, as already mentioned, by the State Audit Commission itself. Let me add that, all legal professionals are united that the State Audit Commission cannot start audits of the procurement procedures on its own initiative, that is to say [[...]] [[Latin]] . In its public presentation, the Court of Auditors agreed with the view that the State Audit Commission must have a legal duty to take care of the legality of its official duties in the context of the requested procedure. Representatives from the general public also pointed out that, in a civil-law relationship where the same customer is a beneficiary of public funds, it is also essential to take care of public interest. The public interest can also be protected by other authorities, but cannot be ignored by the State Audit Commission. The legislative and legal service of the National Assembly has now advocated the use of administrative procedure in the drafting of the current law. We have evidence of that in the archives. When the law changes, it does not even address the issue! On the other hand, the Government has a different position on the issue of public interest protection within the competence of the State Audit Commission when, upon integration into the European Union, public procurement providers will be involved by persons from other Member States of the European Union. Since it is clear in these cases that infringements will be checked by the European Commission and it is also known from current practice that infringements committed by individual contracting authorities of the EU Member States are directly liable to the state budget, the government proposes that changes in the law to the Government's procurement office be made possible to apply for a review of the procurement procedures. The granting of active legitimacy to the Public Procurement Office, on the other hand, in view of the current system regime, is considered by our legislative and legal service, the so-called service of the National Assembly. In the opposition, we believe that active legitimacy should certainly be granted to another or two state authorities, either to the Office for the Protection of Competition or to the State Defence. However, we agree with the view that the new tasks of the Public Procurement Office in relation to procurement procedures also require a preliminary amendment to the Public Procurement Act, Article 129, as stated by the legislative legal service. In the legislative process so far, despite the consideration of the proposals of this law, we have not been able to form clear views on two very important issues on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances and despite the presentation of opinions. This is: should the State Audit Commission protect only the interests of public procurement providers or also public interest in the revision of procurement procedures? Will Slovenia provide judicial protection against the decision of the State Audit Commission, as required by the European Union directives? In the opposition, we believe that judicial protection of decisions or decisions of the State Audit Commission can be ensured in an administrative dispute while maintaining swift decision-making by specialising in the work of the Administrative Court. And since I see my time running out, I just want to conclude, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Vice President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u44	Mr. Dr. Bayuk! Within [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u45	We propose to the National Assembly that the draft law be rejected at first reading for the following reasons. [[...]] Can I please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u46	Dr. Bayuk! You still have time within the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u47	Do I still have time?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u48	Yeah. Proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u49	Okay. All right, thank you very much. Then I'll go back. Because there was one green light here, and I didn't understand what that meant. Thank you. Then we go to another area, and that is – because I know I am talking about a magnetogram, but one day someone will be interested in what we did in this national assembly, thank you – the independence of the State Audit Commission. In the context of the examination of the constitutional situation of the State Audit Commission, special attention is also paid to the amendments included in this bill which interfere with its independence. The State Audit Commission must be an independent body of contracting entities and tenderers. Its independence has been formally ensured so far by the appointment of its members by the National Assembly, that it can independently propose its budget or financial plan and final accounts for the adoption of the National Assembly and report to it on its work. The proposed amendments define the Institute for Early Resolution of the members of the State Audit Commission to ensure their equal independence as judges. To this end, the Government's proposal to "responsible application of the Law on Judicial Service" cannot be applied, as the Council of Justice has important powers and duties in that process. The failure to implement such a solution is also noted by the legislature of the National Assembly. We believe that there are no reasons for the proposed solutions in the European Union directives, as they do not specify in more detail the factors of independence that such authority or bodies should fulfil. The Directives only lay down the conditions of independence of the Court of Justice, the so-called Tribunal, where it provides for the judicial protection of the decisions of that body instead of the Court. Therefore, in the opposition, we propose that, in order to allow the members of the State Audit Commission to be released prematurely, the national assembly should be authorised, in accordance with the procedure and for the reasons set out in this law. Any involvement of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the early resolution process of the members of the State Audit Commission means, according to our assessment, only a threat to its independence and not the other way around, as the Government claims. However, the third area is the role of the Court of Auditors in procurement procedures. In a public presentation of the opinions on the role of the Court of Auditors, the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Antončič, drew up a position which is consistent with the law on the Court of Auditors or a consistent understanding of the role of our Supreme Auditor. Since the award of a public contract is an act of operation and the Court of Auditors revises the operations of users of public funds or of persons of public law, it is also appropriate to revise any public contract, namely, to revise the legality, the economy and the efficiency of public procurement. In the discussion with these views, it was not in line with the opinion of the government representative or the Ministry of Finance, who considered that the Court of Auditors was only competent to revise the economy and not the legality, or even stressed that the Court of Auditors was only competent to revise the efficiency of public procurement. In the opposition, we believe that the government representative does not have any legal basis for such an opinion, not in our legal order, nor in the directives of the European Union, nor in the international standards for State audit. Its view that the Court of Auditors is not competent to revise the legality is even more surprising given its view that the State Audit Commission is not obliged to protect its procedures of public interest. Should the public interest in public procurement protect only the executive branch itself? While the role of the Court of Auditors is not subject to the law on the revision of the public procurement procedure, on this occasion in the opposition we believe that the Court of Auditors should pay more attention to the audit of public procurement, not only in the context of the revision of the regularity of business, but also in the context of specific audits, where more emphasis will be given to the process of auditing of internal control and internal audit and thus the prevention of illegal and non-economic public procurement has also been achieved. However, as a fourth chapter, I would also like to mention that the other proposals of the State Audit Commission, which were written in the form of these at the initiative of the National Assembly, have been taken into account by the Government in part or in full, but should nevertheless be subject to different opinions. On the basis of all this, we propose that the draft law be rejected at first reading for the following reasons: for the first time, the government has not fully followed the objectives of the European Union directives which today regulates the field of public procurement and has aligned it with the legal order or constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this proposal, the Government has not clearly defined the competence of the State of the Audit Commission and has ensured that, in the procedures for the review of the procurement initiated at the request of the tenderers, it is incumbent upon it to fully protect the public interest and to eliminate also those illegalities and irregularities that are not subject to the request of the tenderers. Thirdly, the Government has not provided judicial protection in this proposal for the decisions of the State Audit Commission as required by Article 2 of the Directive of the European Union and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Fourthly, the Government has not established rules and procedures for early discharge of members of the State Audit Commission in such a way that the State Audit Commission is completely independent of the executive branch. Fifthly, the Government has not included in this proposal all the reasoned amendments proposed by the State Audit Commission on the initiative of this National Assembly in its efforts to amend this law. We therefore propose that we reject this proposal and order our government to submit not only such a law that respects all these objectives, but also to amend the law on public procurement, as we have already imposed on them in our decision of 25 October 2001. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. These were the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. I give the word to Joseph Jerovška from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members. We have before us legal material, which is extremely important, with regard to which the Assembly of State adopted certain decisions in the autumn of 2001, but through this legal substance we find that the Government did not follow the recommendations of the National Assembly, since it should also prepare amendments and amendments to the Public Procurement Act. I wonder how, in one context, the intention of this law can be realistically assessed. In fact, some of the very positive implications of this law have been written in the explanation of this law, but I must express a scepticism as to whether this is the only government leader. Indeed, it is clear, of course, that procedural issues must be resolved and that the legal protection of tenderers must be resolved, the legal protection of tenderers improved. I'm going to quote a sentence from the assessment of the situation that seems useful to me. "Inadequate legal protection is certainly a risk of inadmissible behaviour of participants in the procurement process and constitutes a high level of risk for corrective actions and the withdrawal of tenderers from the relevant market, and therefore the fundamental objective of amendments and additions is to amend the law on the revision of procurement procedures in those parts which have proved to be an obstacle to the enforcement of effective legal protection." Like I said, it's a positive intention of this marriage. However, as I say, this is really a basic guide. Is not the drafting of this law and the provisions of this law also in some sense an attempt to cloud the situation and perhaps even aggravate the situation? I have a feeling that my personal feeling is that the current State Audit Commission has some positive charge, some positive intent, and in this context, I think - the solution in Article 4 - how can a government before the end of its mandate, on a proposal from the government, an early president of the Commission and a commission, be dangerous too. In fact, I think that this State Audit Commission should only be responsible to the National Assembly for carrying out its tasks. Here, however, the government has too many options and, of course, it can be extremely positive or, say, a positive audit committee is also liquidating. And we know that such attempts have always been present and are always with the audit commissions, with the supervisory commissions and so on. In particular, how does this law guarantee that corruption will also be reduced to as low a level as possible in the case of the tenderers and, in fact, in the case of the contracting authorities? Indeed, we are in the stage, at a time when we face daily reports of the bad intentions of the contracting authorities, sometimes, and also of the tenderers who, sometimes, hand in hand, agree, are some predestined, some are committed to being selected on public procurement tenders. Look, we have a case as far as I've seen in the public eye, Merit, that's what they say, these diapers, where they go huge sums. In my view, when I see this case, when I see that some are already favoured in advance and, despite the fact that the public opinion clearly expresses doubts about the fairness of the procedure, even when the audit committee finds it, the audit committee does not have the opportunity to exclude any tenderer who, for years and years, parasites on the State budget from a State authority. If it is found that a company made a higher offer for at least 100 million a year and drained the state budget, of course, in coordination with each other, such a one would have to be eliminated. Then I am interested or I think that we should somehow clarify the possibility or I have heard rumors that some dedicated persons may receive a fictitious certificate at the Ministry of Finance, that they have paid a fee to be paid when the audit application is submitted. There is a great danger that some tenderers are in an unequal position, so I think that this tax, which is a necessary security, should have been pointed out to a special account in the audit committee; that the Commission could see for itself whether this was indicated, not at the expense of a photocopy. So these are serious dilemmas that are present in this marriage. I agree that, at this stage, the government has failed to perform its task, that it has not written a sufficiently transparent law and that it cannot be supported at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr Jerovšek. Now it would be my colleague, Victory Jelinčič, who is not in the hall. That's why I give the word "magic." Janez Drobnič, Nova Slovenija. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. I would touch on three key issues relating to this law, which constitute the weakness of the applicant's legal material. The first is the principle of verification of public procurement. It is necessary to provide for a system of appropriate verification, and for this there must also be authorities of a judicial nature; on the one hand and on the other hand: if this judicial character is not ensured by a body, then the judicial character of that body must be ensured at the next stage. Thus, the law provides for the State Audit Commission to carry out this verification, but it is not clear from the law itself, what follows in the next procedure or in the next stage - an appeal whether it is an administrative procedure or a civil procedure. This law doesn't solve it, and it'll complicate things. Perhaps it is even the intention of the proposer to get things mixed up and to make all the procedures that are problematic - and we know which way they are guided - so that they can also get involved and there is a sense of powerlessness in the people who want to provide this country with a legal system. The next item is the elimination of illegality and irregularities. The State Audit Board shall not be given these options, none. We have parallel, say, inspection instances in the event of market infringements, I am not talking about public procurement now, because they also have certain powers to remedy irregularities and do not need to be provided with a judicial decision, but can be issued by a statement or a decision of an inspector. Similarly, the State Audit Commission should be able to impose measures to remedy illegalities, i.e. irregularities at the time of public procurement. However, the law then refers only to a civil suit in which the victims will be granted their rights, which are allegedly or certainly violated. There is still a dilemma to be protected in this process: either only interested parties or investors or tenderers, or public interest must also be ensured. Just before that, colleague Jerovšek mentioned Merit's case, where individual tenderers could not compete to ensure justice and adequate rights, their rights, but would not be granted a court to ensure public interest in this case. The next thing I would mention is the nature of the State Audit Commission, its resolution of how this is to be done so as not to be biased, because the Commission must act impartially. This is not properly regulated in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you, too. Now it would be mag. Andrej Vizjak, who I also do not see in the hall, then a colleague of Saša Pece, I also do not see him in the hall. I therefore give the floor to the next debater, Aloise Sok, Nova Slovenija. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Since much of this has already been said, I would like to say briefly that when I read the law, I could say that I personally am content with what is written in the law. However, the question arises as to how matters under the law take place in practice. And that seems much more important to me than what's written in the law itself. Undoubtedly, a marriage as important as this should be clear and unequivocal. Therefore, I am sure that words such as “may, as a rule, be admissible” and so on do not fall within such an important law. I would suggest to the bill that all these concepts be drawn from the law, because the words “rightly, it can, of course, be allowed” give always an opportunity, I would say, a variety of legal interpretations. And this is what happens to us most often in these procedures that different lawyers interpret differently. Of course, the law is supposed to act as such anti-corruption. And if that's how marriage works, then it's time to be clearly written. And this would add that a country that wants to be fair to all its citizens - and, of course, on behalf of the country, this Parliament or this national assembly - must strive to adopt clear and unequivocal laws. For if we work differently, then we create a real country that does not want to be fair to its citizens. See, this law summarizes some of the concepts of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The principles set out here, I do not know, legality, speed, accessibility and efficiency, could, of course, also add to this the principle of economics and any other of these principles, as set out in the Law on Administrative Procedure, in order to follow these solutions, which have already been put into practice. Of course, once again I say that, despite these principles and so written down by law in practice, all these principles do not come to terms. I myself know cases where people, even through the courts, have to get together after a few years, because in the procurement process a mistake has been made, say MOL organ or something like that, and then I wonder what the right of the party in the proceedings is, if after, I don't know, four, five or even more years in the court proves that she was right. Such a party in the proceedings is certainly not in an equal position with other parties. And the law should regulate such and similar cases in such a way that they do not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you, too. I also give the floor to a representative of the government. You have five more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me the last five minutes in which I would like to hold an hour of debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u58	I'm asking you to stand up because it's a custom in our National Assembly. Stay in the bench, but it's standing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u59	If I am somehow trying to summarize comments, proposals, suggestions and opinions, perhaps for the introduction only, as I said at the outset, both the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Review Act are linked. The Audit Act protects the conduct that has been done through the application of the Public Procurement Act. But the fact is, it's two separate marriages. When we also look at the legal regime in the European Union, they regulate, if we say procedural or, if we say, fundamental law, individual directives and, of course, the legal protection of individual directives. Thus, the adoption or conditionalisation of reception in a simultaneous period does not have legal basis either through a related or comparable or a comparative matter through regulation in the European field, is said through the Directives. As regards the said certification, certification or so-called certificate, only one of the procedures provided for in the present law will enter into force only after Slovenia enters into the European Union. In fact, it is a possibility for contracting entities only in the so-called 'utility sector' of water, energy, utilities, of course, to have their procedures reviewed, but this does not, of course, apply to all other procedures as well as to the purposes and texts of the Directives. Maybe it's about the tax itself. We are also aware that, in fact, it is a matter of, I will say, a discussion, a matter of debate on what kind of fee, what amount of fee. As early as 1999, the proposal was 1% of the value of a public contract, but Parliament's observation at the time was that such a tax would restrict access to adequate legal protection, since the case of 4 billion, for example, valuable business, for example in road construction, amounts to one tax of 20 million tolars, which means that some smaller bidders are not in a position to participate. In short, the possibility of discussion is, of course, immeasurable. With regard to the year-long dilemma on the legal procedure, I would only say this, the procurement procedure and, of course, the legal protection in this process is a "sui generis" procedure, neither administrative nor judicial, but it is regulated by the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. In fact, when we are talking about an administrative or judicial procedure, we are talking about a so-called subsidiary procedure - only if this law, whose changes are the subject of today's debate, does not rule otherwise. But I can't say that this is an administrative or judicial procedure. As far as the protection of public interest is concerned, it must be said that the audit committee is difficult, if I say so, to get active legitimacy, to say that "ex ofo" would introduce procedures, because the purpose of legal protection is, in fact, to protect tenderers. However, we do have what has been said before, including the competent institutions that protect public interest through the review of public money consumption. In this case, it is therefore the Court of Auditors which may, if it considers it to be a breach of public interest in the sense of non-economics, take an appropriate action. Of course, he has all the appropriate powers to do so. Perhaps even with regard to this legal protection after the decision of the State Audit Commission. The last speaker here said what a party's right is if the court ruled on its right for five or more years. In fact, this has also led to these changes here, in fact against the decision of the audit commission, legal protection is possible in terms of compensation. Even if we allow the Parliament to decide, of course, whether the possibility of a complaint to a regular court or to a Supreme Court will arise, this is precisely the problem that we have discussed before us: five years will be determined whether the application is justified or whether the party is entitled at the end to the satisfaction it is called compensation, in the end, of course, the result will be the same as it is now set out in the proposal for this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Igor Soltes. This exhausts the pre-declared discussions. We've got some time left. In accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, this time could still be used for discussion. I'm asking you to report to those who still want to discuss it. Dr. Andrey Bajuk. Just a moment to write it down so I don't make any mistakes. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] I also give the floor to Dr. Andre Bajuk for discussion. You have five minutes available, in accordance with Article 57.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think it'll be less than five minutes. I listened very carefully to this last debate by the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, I note that this has happened to them, as in the English Parliament, as you misook your mystery, you have misunderstood your own mistake. In fact, no one here demanded or argued that these were not two separate laws. Of course, they're separate laws. However, two laws, which regulate some part of the activity that is very important for our Slovenian country, and where we have found, on the basis of the reports of the 2000 State Audit Commission and because we are familiar with the entire professional public, which has been warning for more than a year that the law on public procurement requires a thorough review. The question that we have asked you, Mr representative of the government, is, not whether it is a separate law or not, but when will you implement the decision of the National Assembly? The National Assembly decided unanimously, on 25 October 2001, to present both laws. It is pointless that we are now correcting one that is important, but it will have to be rectified once you bring about an amendment to the Public Procurement Act. The question is whether the government really wants or does not want to regulate this area, in accordance with our constitutional order and the directives of the European Union. Another time. No one has proposed, no one has proposed and I have carefully tried all my colleagues so that the State Audit Commission can act as an exophilia. No one would know. I didn't hear that either. So I don't know why he objected. And the third is the issue of legal protection. I understand very well that if we go to the area of legal protection in such an order or the functioning of our judiciary as it is now, we will have exactly the problems that my fellow Member, Mr Aloysius Sok, points out. Of course, there is an urgent and consistent respect for the speed principle. However, we must ensure what our Constitution requires. And that's legal protection. Europe up or down. The fact is that our constitution, as Dr Pirnat has clearly explained in our public debate, distinguishes between the right to compensation and the right to justice. That is why these two are different articles in our constitution. So the issue of legal protection is not solved. Even if you vote this afternoon, as I see it, you will vote because you have enough votes to say the world is square. Well, it will be for a while after this law is actually in the Official Journal, but someone will go to the Constitutional Court and we'll have to change it again. What does that mean? To keep this legislation in line with our constitutional order and, of course, also with the European Union directives. The mess will continue and we will see again what we are in this national assembly, the facts we have come to know. The 1998 and 1999 accounts report, the Court of Auditors reported that at least one fifth of all public contracts they reviewed violated our public procurement legislation. This happens every day. We know that. But if we don't want to settle this, it's our responsibility, not our opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you for this debate, Dr. Andrey Bajuk. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, the assembly will vote in the afternoon in the context of the joint votes below. I'm breaking the 11th item of the agenda. We will continue the meeting with agenda item 12 at 13.35, which is the first reading of the bill providing conditions for the President of the Republic. I'm taking a break for the time being. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u63	We're moving on to 12. At the top of the agenda, this is a first-hand proposal for a bill to provide conditions for the function of the President of the Republic. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, the group of 11 Members with the first-signed colleague of mags is a group of 11 Members. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. First, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Please, Dr. Matjaž Nahtigal, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u64	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the presidency of the Republic, which was reviewed and adopted by the Government on 28 March 2002. The preparation of this law took a long time. At the time of the adoption of the Law on Members in 1992, a provision of Article 41 was included in the transitional and final provisions, which makes sense to apply the provisions on substantive and other conditions for the work of Members also to the work of the President of the Republic. This provision provided a temporary solution to the adoption of the law on the provision of conditions for the presidency of the Republic, which is intended to definitively regulate this important area. However, this temporaryity lasted until today as the general debate on this law begins in the National Assembly. In 1999, the National Assembly formally ordered the Government to draft a law on the President of the Republic. On the basis of this decision, the Government entrusted the Ministry of Home Affairs with the preparation of the law on the President of the Republic with the Ministry of the Interior. This service, in cooperation with the Office of the President of the Republic, finalized and forwarded the law to the government this spring, when the government, as it said, also confirmed and referred it to the parliamentary procedure. There are no major concerns about the need for this law in the legal profession. For it is the only remaining state function, the only holder of state authority that has not yet been regulated by law. The Law on Members, the Law on Government, the Law on Constitutional Court and other law also lay down in their provisions material conditions for the performance of these functions. The purpose of the bill is therefore to remedy the inappropriateness and shortcomings of the existing regime. The institution of the President of the Republic as a constitutional category requires separate legal arrangements. The draft law therefore provides for a comprehensive regulation of the material and other conditions for the exercise of the office of President of the Republic, the obligations of the authorities providing these conditions, the basis for the organisation and functioning of the Office of the President of the Republic, the notification of matters of importance to the President of the Republic in the performance of his office, the position and rights of the spouse of the President of the Republic in respect of the performance of protocol and other State obligations and the rights of the President of the Republic after the end of that function. The position of the President and the conditions for the performance of his office shall also be regulated in other comparable countries in a manner that grants the President rights in accordance with the dignity of his office, not only during the term of his office, but also after his termination. The regulation of individual issues in countries varies due to different historical and other circumstances, but such conditions are provided everywhere that correspond to the importance of the presidency of the Republic. Such an approach is legally consistent and is also transparent in terms of democratic principles. The costs are also transparent. With regard to post-service costs, which have been discussed most so far, I can say the following. Comparable countries with parliamentary tradition can take care of their former presidents; to what extent and to what extent, it is a matter of country-specific tradition and customs, as well as a sense of state-of-the-art and evaluation of the function. This is, of course, a decision that is in your hands. To the extent that the proposed law can be financially evaluated, the maximum individual cost is the one-off purchase and establishment of the office of the former President and the cost of protection. With regard to the costs of setting up a former President's office, it is possible to purchase premises as a single cost, either renting premises or equipping suitable premises already owned by the State. As far as security is concerned, this would total a total of less than 30 million tolars per year if fully implemented. However, since the scope of protection is a matter of every time security and professional evaluation in a specific situation, these costs are likely to be significantly lower. Therefore, the entire annual costs of the former President after the establishment of the office will not exceed 60 million per year, according to the applicant's conviction. This is the order of the size of a small government office. It is generally known that the term of office of the first President of the Republic of Slovenia will expire at the end of the year. There is also no secret that we want to allow this law to take advantage of the reputation and prestige of every once-in-a-lifetime president of the country, who could contribute to solving international problems and at the same time strengthen the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia around the world. Dear Members and Members! Despite the specific period during which the law is adopted, I have no doubt that it will be possible to adopt a law in the follow-up procedure which will result from an appropriate evaluation of this function. This can only be decided by Parliament in the system of parliamentary democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Nahtigal. We will now hear the seven positions of the Group of Members. First of all, I give the floor to my colleague Potræ, on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, after him to my colleague Brejc, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The President of the Republic is a constitutional institution. The President of the Republic represents the Republic of Slovenia and is the Commander-in-Chief of its Defence Forces. The State of Slovenia shall be responsible for providing the President of the Republic with the conditions for the performance of his duties. These conditions have so far not been disputed either for the President or for the public; this has only reinforced the reputation of President of the Republic. In this law too, certain conditions must enable it to function, while at the same time not disproportionate to the needs, nor to the representation of most citizens and citizens, nor to the general well-being and opportunities of the State. Only this can strengthen responsibility, public reputation and moral authority, which are essential to the success of the President of the Republic. The fundamental criterion for former President's rights should be the importance of the function he performed in favour of Slovenia and the possibility that he can use his experience, reputation, personal acquaintances and friendships with statesmen around the world to the greatest extent possible for the benefit of the country. Politics and decisions are not taken, but are not mainly prepared, only in formal contacts. Personal acquaintances and shared relationships of respect and trust can also contribute greatly to them. Several provisions on issues covered by the proposed law have been regulated by the Law on Members so far. The provisions of this Act on substantive and other conditions for the work of Members and on the rights of Members after the end of the term of office were also applicable to the President of the Republic. Lately, he has laid down a law on wage ratios in the public sector. However, the President has so far appointed the organisation and functioning of the services. In spite of the fact that there were no more serious practical questions in this regard, the Government considers that the institution of the President of the Republic, as a constitutional category, requires a separate legal regime, since the regulation of material and other conditions for the exercise of the presidency of the Republic has proved to be inappropriate and lacking. I quote the government's opinion. More specifically, the government has not argued what is bad, as it does not show where the current regime has been lacking. Indeed, a comparative review in eight European countries, annexed to the law by the Government, shows that most of these countries are much more specific and more comprehensive in dealing with this issue. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the United Nations Charter of Social Democrats, we generally agree to adopt a special law in order to ensure the conditions for the exercise of the presidency of the Republic. With regard to the position and rights of the President of the Republic in office, who will now be in office and who will be elected later, we believe that the implementation of the law should not pose any more serious questions. Presidents in all countries have the right to residence and to protocol facilities. However, in our view, this is one of the issues on which the legal provisions would indicate that the residence will not be a matter of special desire and benefit, but of objective needs to serve as the President of the State. However, in our view, the law would suggest that provisions should be incorporated into the law so that the President may waive, in whole or in part, the individual right conferred on him by this law if the waiver of the right did not make it difficult for him to fulfil his presidential duties. To be honest, it would be bad to set the scope of rights and duties on which current or former presidents would have completely different opinions in the course of their discussions. With regard to the rights of the President of the Republic after the end of his office, it is right to point out that the diversity of regulation in comparable countries is much greater than that of the current President in office. This makes it difficult to regulate this issue in our law and requires even more sensitivity. The rights of the President of the Republic after the end of the term of office, in our opinion as far as possible, cannot be determined from the point of view of past functions and merit, even less from the point of view of the individual, but mainly because of the tasks that can still be performed in the interests of the State. From these points of view, two principles would therefore be highlighted and regulated in this part of the law. Firstly, the rights of the former President should be different, including substantially different, if we so agree, for a certain period of time after the end of the mandate, let's say a maximum of one more term, from the remainder of the period until his death. This is an idea that is not in the law so far, and we propose a new one. After a certain period of time, no special rights are required in respect of wages, offices, cabinets, security, car drivers and the like. Secondly, at a time when he enjoys special rights, it is said, for example, another mandate, the former President is morally committed, in agreement with the competent national authorities, to cooperate with his opinions and assessments in the pursuit of foreign policy objectives and interests, as well as with agreed international activity and cooperation. We believe that some of the material benefits can be met only if it is still working for the benefit of the State. In particular, I would like to point out that, even in the case of the previous President, we would also write down a provision that the law provides for the rights and benefits provided for may be waived if the waiver of these rights does not undermine the reputation of the President. Let me finish. The fact that we are discussing this law immediately before the start of the electoral campaign for the election of the President of the Republic and the numerous names of candidates for the new President do not make this law easier for us. Nor do we, and even less so to the public, who will certainly be sensitive to the definition of special rights. Let us try the question and the views that can be objectified and decide who will soon be the former and who will be the new president. Let us decide on the role and position of the constitutional institution and on the basis of the needs and interests of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Now I give my word to my colleague, Dr. Brejc. He will be given the floor of his colleague Bogomir Vnučec on behalf of the SMS Group. Please, my friend, Mr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u68	Ladies and gentlemen. In our view, the Act on the provision of conditions for the exercise of the presidency of the Republic is not suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly. We all agree in our parliamentary group that this area is not adequately regulated in current legislation and needs to be regulated. There's no doubt about that. Of course, it must also be said that the law must be written in such a way that it will apply to any future former president. In principle, we are in favour of each president of the country enjoying certain benefits after the end of the mandate, but to be comparable to other European countries and compatible with our material capabilities. When Dr. Nahtigal mentioned comparability earlier, it is only necessary to say that, say, the richest country in Europe, Switzerland, for example, does not give former presidents any benefits. Neither does our neighbor Austria, and so on. But I do think that some of the benefits some presidents have to have. In our party, we have found that this bill, which we have today in the process, strongly deviates from our position and gives every once-in-a-lifetime former president and his partner too many benefits. Let me be very specific. Some comments on the text of the law itself and the material accompanying it. Chapter 5 of the Act provides for a 15% flat rate for the marriage partner of the President of the Republic. This is probably necessary for certain funds to be approved for this purpose, but they would suggest that the applicant examine the compatibility of this provision with other practice and the requirements of the Court of Auditors. In Article 16, however, we are disappointed when, in the last paragraph, the applicant speaks of the fact that, I quote, "the position and rights of the spouse of the President of the Republic under this law also apply to an extra-marital partner who has lived with the President of the Republic for at least 10 years in an extra-marital community." This provision is awkward for several reasons, as the date of the marriage can be established, but the start of the extra-marital community is a more loose case. Moreover, you who speak of this, all equal, all equal, should also consider whether this applies to same-sex partners, because we know your views. If we can look at Chapter 6, Article 20 says that the former President has the right to return to his work within three months of the end of his term as President of the Republic or to another work corresponding to the type and degree of his professional education. What if he does it after one year? In fact, we all talk about the fact that it is right for him to have some privileges for a year and probably not a problem. However, the provision is so imprecise that it could cause former presidents problems. That's why I think the proposaler should look into it. In Article 21, the former President of the Republic shall have the right to compensation, the amount of which shall be the difference between his personal remuneration and 90% of the salary of the President of the Republic. For example, if the former President did not hire himself in, I don't know, the Ljubljana Bank, at the top or Triglav insurance company or something similar, his salary would probably be much lower and it is clear that it is a tendency to pay 90 per cent. Thus, even after retirement, this difference between the actual pension and 90 per cent under the current rules is considerable. We are already making a difference here, which in our view is controversial. We have a law on pension and disability insurance, and I think the law should apply to everyone. However, if not all are true, then this law should specifically state how it is with the presidents and former presidents and so on. In Article 22, this is probably among the more controversial ones, the proposaler speaks of what belongs to the former President of the Republic: the office, the adviser, the secretary, the security guard, which means three or four, because one cannot be in service for 24 hours, the protection of the facility, and it is not clear whether it is technically and physically, because now it is both, I think it is necessary to resolve this for every single President. Permanent use of the vehicle and the driver. We'll come up with an interesting situation here. If, for example, the former President employs himself in his previous post and becomes, say, the Attorney General or the Prosecutor again, then he owns a driver and a security guard, every day when he goes to work and back and forth and anywhere. This is going to be an interesting situation. I don't think that's right. Then access to the archive from when he served as president. This provision is contrary to the law on archiving and archives. Let the proposers look into it. Browse through archives from past periods is not allowed. And the provision itself in marriage is like this. The President, who has resigned from office, has the right to access the archives from the time he served as President. That's a completely unprofessional term. The government doesn't know the archival and archival laws that distinguish between documentary and archival materials, but I'm not going to tire you out now, but it's only right for the government to think about it. In my view, this provision should be deleted because no one has the right to return to his previous post after the end of his term of office and to examine the collection that arose in his time. It's not there. It's not there. It is said that if no one else can do so, then the President of the State, the former President of the State, should not do so. Then we have paragraph 23, 'the use of funds is decided by the President who has ceased his office', and all of this is supposed to take place at the premises of the current President. For several reasons, it would not be appropriate for the office of the former President or former Presidents, as we think, to be within the facility where the current President is. We think it is much better for the government to provide in one of its facilities a suitable place for former Prime Ministers to carry out their business related to their former or current position, as I say, to say, the current position. There are also unnecessary provisions for the Secretary-General, the current Secretary-General, to deploy workers to the new cabinet one month before the term of office of the President. Yes, these are provisions that are in principle contrary to what we adopted last year or what we adopted in this assembly when we discussed the law on civil servants. These are public servants bound by the mandate, as is the Minister, who has the right to bring a group of people with him, after the end of his term of office, and thus, of course, his close associates. This is also the case with the President of the Republic and there is no reason why it would be different, so I ask that the applicant examine this provision and also bring it into line with the law on civil servants. In my view, Article 27 is a bit awkward because it is supposed to apply backwards. Certainly this is, in my opinion, a problematic provision and is unnecessary. It is interesting that the government - although Dr Nahtigal has said something today about financial resources - sends a document to Parliament that does not meet the formal conditions for consideration. This text does not appear in point 3. [[Financial and other implications, page 6]] not the actual material data, nor the financial actual amounts. Today we have heard some of them in the opening speech, but this must be part of the bill, which we all know is not. In addition, there are only two indents, all the others that I was talking about are missing. Now that I'm reading this marriage, I don't want to be mean, but somehow it comes to my mind that as small a country as possible, the bigger the cars are, and the bigger the benefits are for the presidents. Our party, the Social Democratic Party of this law, will not support it, as I have already said, because the applicant exaggerates the benefits because the law is not in line or with the material possibilities of the state. In our view, however, it would not be ethical for more than 100,000 unemployed people to have more than 100,000 workers and workers with a pension salary and more than 60% of pensioners who also have very pensionable pensions to pass a law in this National Assembly, which would give the former President, in my opinion, every time, an enormous benefit. And what do I suggest? Let me put it this way. The current president and the near-ex-president are portrayed in public as a modest person. With this law, the proposer puts him in terrible trouble. How will the current President feel when he suddenly receives all these benefits that are not in his nature, at least if we judge in his public image. What do we suggest? We think two periods of the post-president's life need to be separated. The first is one year after the end of the term of office. This is more or less regulated by the current legislation and there is probably no specific deviation from current practice. Of course, he should have one year's salary to have protection, as does the Prime Minister after the end of the driver's term. There's probably no points of dispute here for the first year, at least I haven't noticed them right now. After this year, he should have a pension that he owns under the law. Let him enjoy all the rights that come to him as the former president of the country when it comes to protocol, national celebrations and similar things and when it comes to international activity, where he takes up the office of former President in these various international associations, clubs and so on. These informal paths are important and it is right, however, to ensure that every time the current President does so in this respect. It's about transportation. Let him have it when he acts as former President in some protocol and similar way. The office. I doubt the current president would need his office with a consultant, and I don't know what else. The current President does not already have, the current President does not have any powers under the Constitution. Then what else would I need alone after the president's gone, I don't know what. I think it's quite enough that an office that is defined by a government that is appropriate, I think, by all the criteria, with an appropriate professional person, secretary, for example, who has the skills of correspondence, foreign languages and so on, that the President can communicate with the world, with citizens and so on. This is quite enough, there is no need for not knowing any advisers and so on. We are very opposed to that. As I said at the outset, if we had listened to our proposal, we would not have sent this law for further consideration but would have rejected it. However, if this law goes through the first hearing and then the second, I expect the applicant to listen to what we have formed in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Brace. I now give the floor to my colleague, Vnučec, who will present the position of the youth party's parliamentary group. He will be given the floor of his colleague Anderlič for the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. First of all, as I say, my colleague, Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party, we support the intention to regulate the situation with regard to the President of the Republic as regards material and other conditions for the performance of the function, including the rights after the end of the post. But the question is, are we not overstepping this law? In the opinion of our Group, it would be more appropriate for us to first adopt a law on the President of the Republic, which we do not have at this time, where we would combine the provisions of the Constitution and the sectoral laws governing the position and powers of the President of the Republic. This would give us the opportunity to specify more precisely things that are not specified in the current rules. This would make it easier for us to decide and discuss the subject that is the content of the marriage proposal that we have on our benches today. Especially on the fact that the President of the Republic is an institution with quite specific characteristics. It is an individual and not a collective body, the President of the State is the supreme representative, if I may put it this way, of the countries at home and abroad, and it is therefore particularly important that he enjoys a high moral and political reputation. However, if we adopt a marriage with some of the benefits we have heard before, this can be questionable. Only in this way can functions then perform independently and independently and with the necessary degree of neutrality. With this order, we would avoid adopting a law for just one person, for the current president, even though it is a law concerning all the presidents, including the future. The bill that we are considering today contains solutions that are intended to regulate the substantive and other conditions for the work of the President and the President's rights after the end of his office. It bothers us here that marriage solutions are exaggerated in certain ways. It is therefore appropriate to consider in particular how to resolve the status of President after the end of office. If we look around the neighbouring countries, we can figure it out and we've already heard it, they have this very different arrangement. From the fact that there are no ratings and no benefits, to the solution that is still closest to us, Italy, where the President becomes a senator after the end of his post and enjoys all the rights arising from this function. In addition, we believe that restrictions should also be placed on the granting of benefits after the end of office, as we are convinced that a more restrictive approach should be taken in these matters, in particular with regard to administrative, technical and security provisions. And, of course, we also propose that these benefits are before the rule, rather an exception than a rule. We also miss more detailed provisions which could also abolish these rights if, for example, the former President had committed any acts which the Law on Members defines as a reason for the termination of the mandate of a Member. We are missing these provisions here as well. Finally, I would say that the Youth Party, the parliamentary group, will support the law at this stage, and we expect the proposer to regularly examine our comments and to bring them into the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. I now give the floor to my colleague Mr Tonet Anderlich, who will present the views of the LDS Group, after which he will be given the floor by his colleague, Mr Rokavec, to the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u72	Respectable. Finally, we are getting a law that will settle the issue that we believe should have been settled long ago, if not immediately at the time of the adoption of the Constitution. The fact is that this law governs both: the status of the President during the management of the post and the status after the mandate, and unfortunately there are many more discussions, including public responses to the part that should address the President's questions after the term of office. I think it is necessary to go in line and, of course, settle first the questions of the official or president in the course of the exercise of his office. It is a pity that the articles dealing with this issue are, in fact, inconclusive and are not acceptable for our Group of Members to write in Article 3, for example, for the performance of the presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government, in agreement with the President, lays down the conditions for action. In our view, it is necessary and urgent to establish the residence of the President of the State, which will be irrespective of who will be president, and of course this is permanent and irrevocable from term of office to term. Because, on the one hand, there could be really too much modesty, which does not belong to the President of the State, as well as, of course, any pre-dimension, which of course would not be in line with the expectations of citizens, but not with the financial possibilities of the State. Therefore, it is also kind of strange, in fact, that the law is not equipped with financial consequences and I agree, because it is likely that discussions will continue to resolve this issue simply by settling individual issues as they should be, i.e. from residence to services and everything else, including protection. This can still be clearly calculated or evaluated with current criteria, which certainly exist and of course cannot be said to be 60, maybe 70, or some other number, and this would eventually be either modest or foreshadowed. And that's not acceptable to us. Clearly, in this context, the question of how your spouse is doing is also an issue. We believe that the President of the country is the first diplomat, the first to represent the country and that, in accordance with the law on external matters and certain other arrangements, this could also be arranged for the spouses of the current President or the President and there is no possibility of inventing half variants or any other. There was also something already said, perhaps in a joke, but it is true that we have the law on the marriage community and in this sense apply to all citizens, and also to the President and the President, and from this point of view we should simply sum it up, settle it in law or by law, so that it would not be a problem. It is clear that the part where the law regulates the status after the mandate, that it is inappropriate and of course gives different conclusions as to what someone will imagine and what someone will arrange, if, say, more kindly, if more, I don't know what the government will do to him and this service will arrange something more, the rest, but not to the other. I think it is necessary to regulate instead of the unconditional right of its own office, which the former President would have had to regulate the possibilities mentioned here, i.e. the correspondence to perform certain functions that he performs in accordance with the options that the current Bureau of the President can offer to the former President. As far as security is concerned, I think that we have this arranged in this country, that this changes only in view of the threat of the country and the level of security that is at present at a certain point, and that it should also apply to the former President in this regard. In the end, however, we believe that the law is necessary, the state needs it, not the President, and not the former President, but the country, because the state is regulated and because we believe that we should not allow ourselves to compete around who is more of a privilege, someone less than that, but that we are trying to bring this law closer by government positions as well as by the parties, especially the parties represented in Parliament, and in some way by consensus we accept it. I think this is a matter in which we can say that it needs to be simplified and settled by consensus. As I said, we are not for exaggeration in one way or another, and in this sense, after we support the law to continue the journey, we will try to coordinate positions with all the other parties represented in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. I now give the floor to my colleague, Mr Rokavac, who will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Mr Jelinčič will be given the floor to present the views of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Slovenian People's Party Group considers that the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic does not provide all the necessary business elements to be contained in the proposal for a law on the basis of the new Rules of Procedure. Above all, there is a lack of a financial framework. In the Group of Members, we believe that the solutions proposed in the draft Law on the President of the Republic are so important from a financial point of view that they should be elaborated more clearly in the very explanation of the bill. We believe that the proposal for a law based on the current material situation in the Republic of Slovenia is over-extended. The reason is simple: it is impossible to calculate clearly and precisely how much we will spend for the President of the Republic or for the former President or for the former President of the Republic in the future. That is why, first of all, it is also necessary to limit this advantage on time. In the Group of Members, we are aware that the law on the President of the Republic should already be in place. In fact, there is a considerable responsibility here also in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit a proposal for a law at the time, at a time before the presidential elections, which is certainly not suitable for dealing with this law. We therefore propose that if the law is adopted as a follow-up procedure, the proposal of the law should be substantially amended in further procedures, in particular in the sense that it will correspond to the current material situation in the Republic of Slovenia. The following provisions appear to be at issue in the parliamentary group. Above all, we find it controversial to be able to protect the facility in which the former President of the Republic resides, and certainly there should be a drastic time limit, as well as a wage limit. Therefore, the law should contain a provision that the former President should be obliged to retire when he fulfils the conditions. Similar conditions exist in the neighbouring country of Austria, which can be interesting in this area for solutions which could also be taken into account in the proposal for a new law. In the parliamentary group, the diction of the term “former president” also appears to be very controversial. Maybe it's even against the constitution in this part. However, when we share the highest protocol honours with the former President, he is certainly not the most democratic. Under the conditions of parliamentary democracy, power comes from the will of the people and is limited to a mandate. The former President cannot be privileged in this respect compared to the former Member or with the former President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The law is also written by giving the so-called former president many parallel options, parallel actions. Here, in particular, I would like to touch on the view that, in the draft law on the President of the Republic, it is necessary to make it clear that when the President of the Republic completes his mandate, there is, of course, no parallel possibility that there may be any future questions about the powers he would have had, or the current President, who would also be the President of the Republic at that time, or the former President or former President of the Republic. In this context, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the law must be very clearly and precisely defined. In the parliamentary group, we would also point out that if such a law as it is now adopted, we would probably find in the near future that the state budget with former presidents has too much costs. That's when the law will change. From a constitutional point of view, we point out that, of course, the rights acquired will remain. This is probably also the danger that we also point out that the text of the bill should still be accurately drafted, which Parliament is then expected to adopt at the final stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. I now give the floor to my colleague Jelinčič to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. The last presentation of the Group's views will be given by colleague Janez Drobnič for the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law providing the conditions for the President of the Republic, which I think is a good idea to have him on the table. The fact is that all countries have a regulated position as President of the State or as former President of the State. I will not go into the first few articles, but I do think that some matters need to be changed in the later articles of the law. I am certainly disturbed by article 18, which states that the President of the Republic, when his office is terminated and so on, has the right to compensation at the level of the salary of the President of the Republic until he has been employed or has fulfilled the conditions for retirement. I don't think when someone is president of the country, he can't go back to his former job. Imagine, for example, that someone is a doorman, after he is no longer president, back to the goalkeeper and he is guaranteed the same law that he has the right to personal protection, to the protection of the facility where he resides, to the office space, professional assistance, counsellor and administrative and technical staff. If someone reaches the office of President of the State, in this case he must be assured that he can retire from this position. It is a matter of honor that the state thus shows to the one who is chosen, or whom people, people, voters give him the honor of being elected president, and then cannot go back and fly from door to door to get another job or something like that. This is what the current government and the authorities have reserved for Members when they are removed from these premises, then they fly "from ponchos to pilots" and they are looking for who will take them to work because the parties simply forget them and throw them away. I wonder, however, whether this is not perhaps in article 18 so that, for example, President Drnovšek, Prime Minister Drnovšek, if he were to become President of the Republic, then, in the next term, he would have to take back the mandate or position of Prime Minister, according to the provision of the article. I think that this needs to be settled and this is a question that is not as simple and that the good lawyers can certainly interpret as I do. The second paragraph of the same Article states that the right to compensation may be extended to the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement under the general rules, but for a maximum period of one year. That is to say, we have levelled the President of the country, the highest, most honorable position in the country with the position of Member. Given how the state takes care of the former Members, it means that it will not be better for the former presidents, but that they will be cornered. I think I can limit myself to at least paragraph 22, which reads: "The President of the Republic, who has ceased his office, has the right to an office space, professional assistance from the consultant and technical and administrative staff, the right to personal protection, to the protection of the facility in which he resides, and to the continued use of the service vehicle and driver." That's what paragraph 1 says. It is understandable that the former president owns an office space, and it is understandable that he also has an advisor in this office space. This is logical, understandable, opportunistic and even very clever. But I don't know why the former president would need administrative and technical staff. What is administrative and technical staff? How many of these administrative and technical staff can and will this administrative and technical staff do? Are those who maintain elevators or those who repair locks included in this administrative and technical staff, or what is this? I don't know. I don't think an administrative technical staff needs a former president. I also believe that the right to personal protection may last for a year, two, maybe three, after the end of the term of office of the President of the State, but by no means “ad calendas Graecas”, or to the end. Similarly, the protection of the facility may last in the same way as the right to personal protection, and certainly not forever. The use of the service vehicle and the driver is also questionable in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, namely the continuous use of the service vehicle and the driver. I believe that the preceding articles have already written what kind of salary or compensation the President of the country should have, which I agree with in principle. However, I do not think that the use of the service vehicle and the driver would be involved for all time. And if I turn to the fourth paragraph of the same article, article 22, it bothers me that the President who left his office has the right to enter the archives from the time he served as President. I think every president is making his own archive, at least that's the way it is, and that's the practice. But it is questionable to have access to this archive, because it is certainly in this archive, which is owned by the State - we must not forget it, it is not the President's, it is the property of the State of Slovenia - and there are also secret documents in it. Then what will be the access to classified documents? The matter will also need to be regulated in the law on the protection of classified documents. There's no ex-president's office in there. I don't think that this former President's function can be defined there either, but the President has, as long as the President has access to all that he sets out to him or sets up a law or provides him with a bill, and he can't possibly take it back so that he can use classified documents in this case, in spite of the other citizens. I believe that, as I have already said, the archives are owned by the State and are protected by laws that should be the same for all. I could also refer to paragraphs 15 and 16, which speaks of the spouse of the President of the Republic, but I will not refer to this article, because many of the candidates for the future President of the Republic do not have or do not yet have their own spouse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u77	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. As the last of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, you will be followed by a colleague of mags. Drobnik, who will present the views of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Afterwards, the debates between Members and Members will be followed, first of all by colleague Majda Potrat, behind which will be colleague Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the opinion of New Slovenia on the law on the provision of conditions for the presidency of the Republic. Our basic point is that the proposed law does not comply with all the business provisions for the drafting of the law, so it is not appropriate and is not perfect in this respect that it can be dealt with in the national assembly. Not only due to procedural requirements, but also due to substantive requirements that are missing. Some representatives of the parliamentary groups have already mentioned this. However, as far as content is concerned, the content can be divided into two areas: the function and legal arrangements within the current office of the President of the State, the President of the Republic, and the period after the end of the post. The proposer could decide, as far as this first chapter is concerned, to regulate certain matters in existing laws, including with regard to staff, within the framework of the Public Servants Act. So he pulled certain things out and they're in it. In the New Slovenia Group of Members, we believe that we should similarly arrange the other officials, the government, the head of government and the President of the Constitutional Court. Now, as far as the other part is concerned, after the end of the job. I have already mentioned that not all business provisions have been fulfilled, i.e. the financial consequences of this law. Then the government representative told us that it would cost about 60 million under the proposal of this law. Of course that's not true. The security item itself will bear almost that much, because if it has permanent protection, protection, it means four security guards permanently employed, and it can happen because of hospital or something like that, additional costs. And if you calculate it, you have immediate consequences. I can also touch the other items. Like, say, very insignificant 15 percent of the prize or -- that is, working for the president's wife's salary. Of course, a husband is essential that something - whether urgent or not - is a matter of decision. Some countries don't have that. But if we look at how much it's worth, 15 percent of the salary, that's 300 grand. When you get the numbers out, you get a substantial sum. Not to mention the other words. We could imitate countries that measure roughly in size and after parliamentary democracy. If these were taken into account, the proposed law would certainly not offer such benefits. Certain benefits are necessary after the performance of the function. However, the President enjoyed the honour, was the President of the State and could have done something useful for the country, and in this respect we are also obliged to provide him with reimbursement or to ensure that he is doing some other things in terms of the country's usefulness. This is what we have to do - but we have to measure through countries. If we look at Austria. Austria does not provide anything special for this period. Nothing special. What does that mean? That the President of the country shares the fate of all citizens. And since he had an important function and enjoyed good income, he also learned about it from the insurance relationship. So it becomes an integral part of the state or of this social body. Shares the fate of the law on pension and disability insurance. In our case, the former president will not share this and he will be something special. In this sense, of course, the matter is not appropriate. Let me give an example of Italy where it becomes a senator and performs some kind of representative function. And he's normally rewarded for that. In our case, he would have been rewarded for something he might not have done at all. And it could happen that this president would get sick and I don't know, like, even on the bed for 15 years, and he'd have all the drivers, the residence, and I don't know what else. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. Unreal! This law does not provide for real situations. Of course, we don't want any president to do that, but if he does, that could happen. And it can happen that young presidents will be elected, say, like Mr Jelinčič or even younger ones, and we will then have five or six ex-presidents with ex-offices and some would just like to be the current president of the country at the castle, then probably ex-presidents would also want to be on the hills and have their own castles and guards and so on. I mean, it's not going anywhere. That's not how things work out. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this period after completing the current function would be divided into two periods. In direct terms, this would take maybe one year or half of the current term, as in other countries, where they go to certain benefits, even the remuneration that somehow approaches the current salary of the President, but after the expiry of the minimum term, those minimum material obligations that guarantee dignity and perhaps even eventual functions. Could it not be possible to ensure from current services, government services, presidential services when it is necessary for the former President to take part in something - either a delegation abroad or at home - that he is provided with transport through these services, which are permanently available? Why isn't he thinking this way? We just have to be something special, like we're the biggest country in this Europe. Last time there was a very gruesome debate about the purchase of a plane in Switzerland, which was very turbulent, and this plane cost half as much as the government plane in our country, which by the surface, by the population, especially after the wealth, does not yet reach the Swiss state. In short, disproportionateity. The disproportionateity that will go into the discomfort of this President or the subsequent presidents. And all these services can also constitute a danger, what Mr Rokavec has already mentioned, the disguise of certain powers, at least in an informal way, which would, sadly, be very embarrassing for our country and for current or ex-presidents. In short, then there's another question that touches the articles, which the others somehow haven't mentioned. This is for the former President to exercise the resources provided to him by the State. It is not exposed to the fact that these funds are also state, budgetary and subject to the jurisdiction and supervision of the institutions of the State. These aren't his private funds. In short, this should also be more clearly presented. Therefore, these are the key reasons why disproportionateness, inappropriate provisions that do not foresee certain interesting situations, is the reason that this law is not suitable for consideration. However, we certainly believe that the material or things dealt with by the law from a substantive point of view should be regulated, of course, in an appropriate manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you, Mag. A little thing. These were the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. I'll give you the word "magic" first. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the time announced by the United Nations Group for the debate, there has been a good minute, and I am cancelling the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you. I give the floor to the next debater, Member of Parliament, Mr Janez Janša. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Colleagues and colleagues! The law before us today has, for the first time, a wrong title, and for the second time, a logical continuation of a policy that we have been following in the last decade, which is called the creation of a form of modesty, by sitting completely different from this appearance. I think it is also wrong to say that the proposer of this law is a government. Although the government is a formal proposer of this law, the content law is prepared in the office of the President of the Republic and this is the proposal of the current President of the Republic. In view of the fact that the law bears the title "the law on the provision of conditions for the exercise of the presidency of the Republic", it should first be asked how a President of the Republic has been able to perform his functions without this law for ten years and has not considered it appropriate for him to propose it. And even the government, which now says that this law is necessary, did not feel that this law should be proposed within ten years. So the title of this law is wrong. This is the law that is proposed because the President of the Republic is running out of a specific mandate. There are some other countries in the world, mainly in South America, where they passed laws on former presidents, just before their mandate expired, or before they resigned because they didn't want to. I'm not going to name names now, because someone would understand that as an insult. But the fact is, it's no coincidence that we came to this law, and the fact is, if we look at the material side of the story, that this is the logical continuation of some policy. All of you remember that before the new Slovenian Constitution was enacted in 1991 and 1992 we had the Presidency of the Republic. The Presidency of the Republic was composed of five members. The new constitution and the 1992 elections created a new position for the President or the sovereign Presidency of the Republic significantly reduced, for the first time, the second time we received one person instead of five. However, the logistics of this function has not adapted to this reduction of functions and individuals, but has increased significantly and dramatically over the past ten years. With the fact that, first of all, the Presidency had a large part of the executive power in its hands under the old constitution and that, as such, under difficult conditions during the 1991 war, a little earlier, a little later, it worked well with a relatively small number of people, advisers and staff. All due respect, I'll say, for that time. Then the number of competences under the new constitution decreased. On the other hand, we have received a drastic increase in staff in the President's office. The new institutions have been created within this, the establishment of their own security service, the purchase of new expensive, luxury cars, the annual budget has seen an increase in costs for the functioning of the President's office dramatically increased. From 1992 to today, the numbers have been plausible. Every year, you could observe these indices for yourself. In addition to the large number of employees and advisers for areas that the President does not cover at all, the constitution, for example, does not give the President any powers in relation to the economy - he has economic advisers and many other things in his office. The number of employees and part-time employees has also increased dramatically during this period. The salaries of advisers in the Office of the President of the Republic exceed the salaries of the elected officials, including Members and Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's up to the president to decide what they are. During all this time, there was also the fact that the President simply did not perform his functions as he should by law. This National Assembly adopted a law on the decorations of the Republic of Slovenia in 1995. It's been seven years since then. As I recall, in 7 years, the President has not awarded any distinction under this law. He said he didn't like the law and didn't do it. And no one hopes to even remember it, not one medium hopes to write anything about it. Nevertheless, there are people working in this office who are engaged in decorations, although the law is not implemented. So, the proposal before us is only a government in the sense that the government has actually tarnished the requirements that have come from the office of the President of the Republic and have been significantly larger. In 2000 in the government, I think it was the first attempt. We were given a draft or some of the problems of such an arrangement because it was simply prescribed that the former president should have everything he has and the powers he has now are almost the same. I believe that someone in the government may have felt that they had taken a big step forward because they had cleavage. But what is before us in this law is still - as has been said in the position of our parliamentary group - incomparable to comparable countries and, I will say, reflects some cynical attitude towards the material conditions in which most Slovenians live. It is not in line with what this country can actually do when it comes to so-called privileges. Personally, as has been said before, in the position of our Group of Members, I am not opposed to this status being settled. Although, as has already been said, I don't think this is an urgent need for the state. No one in this country but the former president will live better if this law is passed, perhaps even worse. In short, this is not an urgent need of the state, but an apparently urgent need of one man, and I am getting a little nervous that this is being declared an urgent need of the state, because I hope that we have already come out of these times. Costs. The costs that this law entails are far too great. The government representative referred to a significantly lower number than it would be if we calculated what the law actually envisaged. Also, if they remain somewhere in these frameworks, up to 100 million tolars per year, which is a minimum of what is written, this represents, respected colleagues and colleagues, at least 200 Zois scholarships for the most talented students in the country. And here is a very simple decision: whether to spend too much luxury privileges on the past or to invest in the future money that we can spend on 200 talented students every year. Five years from now, this money can be spent for 400 scholarships and ten years from now, when we have three former presidents, it is very likely that 600 scholarships - the highest that this country pays. This is a very simple dilemma, and I appeal to everything that when we vote that we are thinking about it, too. It is a pure budget cost and the decision is very simple: whether we are going to throw this money somewhere where it does not belong, or whether we are going to use it because obviously the money is - the government says that, if it proposes a law - for us to give 200 scholarships each year to more talented students. The way we vote for this will also show how we feel about our future. Given that, in my view, even because of the circumstances in which it was proposed, the law is not realistic, I think that with some amendments we cannot fix something essential as well. Therefore, it would be best for the government to prepare a new one to adapt these conditions, especially when it comes to the status of former or former officials here, to actual or real material conditions and arrangements in comparable countries, and then to propose it as a matter of urgency for me, so that nothing is missed. And one more question must be asked: Is the position of the President of the State, in accordance with our constitutional order, the one most threatened, the one who demands lifeguarding, the one who demands all that is written in this law. In my opinion, given our constitutional arrangements and also concrete practice, both the Prime Minister and every minister in the government not every year, but every day takes more, say, dangerous or concrete decisions, which in one way or another affect any interest and more people, because they have to act, they have to take more, and essentially they may need some kind of protection first. But someone who will perform an honorary function that is never defined, who doesn't need to represent everything, I really don't know if it takes a special office to protect someone for another 30 years. As far as I can tell, no one, except the American presidents, has this in the world. Once again: I am joining, of course, the position of our parliamentary group and will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thanks for the debate. Member Franz Kangler would be next, but he is not present. I therefore give the floor to Ivan Kebrich, who is to be discussed. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues! I come from certain points of view, which I will present how I personally feel about this bill. Firstly, I come from the Constitution, what duties and what rights the Constitution confers on the President of the State. This also leads to certain circumstances which suggest such and other material consequences. Personally, I have always insisted that none of the basic principles can be privileged. We are citizens, and we are subject to the same constitution as all laws. Therefore, I am opposed to the adoption of a law that will give special benefits, the extraordinary benefits of an individual or of more people who serve in his environment. For we believe that we share this bill, which I believe is the right thing for the Republic of Slovenia to get and have and that there will be clear ideas not only for today but also for the future. In this respect, the current situation with regard to the office of President of the State, as long as it is carried out, must be divided into what this law should give - determined to say so, under the terms of "comfort" to the former President at a time which he will no longer perform. And if I limit myself first briefly to the present, then, within our options, it must be so economic, financial, which can be counted on the gross product per capita - in this context only its benefits can be. For if we remember when we adopted the payment system for public servants, we have reduced the President of the State by one degree, and also by our proposal we have raised the basic two items when we have abolished the two lowest classes, on the grounds that this range must be within our capabilities, not that we are working poorer, higher or richer. On the other hand, I'll go to the other part where I say the following. Firstly, why provide the former President with something that is not accessible to most citizens and we make an exception and do inequality. For according to the laws of certain public services it is clear that there is still a certain possibility for him, as we do for Members, Ministers and other services, that one year of income which he has received and exceptionally if, in the second year or two years until the end, he has fulfilled the conditions for retirement, that he still has an additional year. However, when he retires, the laws we have adopted here must apply to all citizens when they retire. Either we make an exception that he will not be harmed by what can be calculated from the highest pension base, or an exception will be proposed to account for a certain percentage of his salary for his calculation of his pension. Personally, I think it is right that a certain period of time after his office as President of the State has ceased, that he still enjoys certain benefits resulting from certain obligations that he has undertaken during his term of office, since others may not forget him so quickly and will still have many questions or with such or other inclinations on him and, of course, he owes him the basic Slovenian manner that he is also available to such people with answers and that. That's why I agree that his office belongs to him, that his administrative power belongs to him, and that he also owns a car with a driver, but not from his address, but from the government. Because I'm sure we have enough car parks to handle these and other protocol matters. In particular, I do not think that each President can simply regulate his own officials in his own way, but they must judge in that order, in that law on public servants that we have adopted. In the National Assembly, we have only one official, besides the rest. The President of the country cannot create his own officials from time to time, but they must be named after the same system as in other services. To quote briefly: in the context of the debate, I would like to point out that the position of staff working in the office of the former President of the Republic of Slovenia should be aligned legally with the solutions for such staff in the Public Servants Act. Therefore, I believe that for legal reasons, this law does not have everything that it should have, that it could be adopted today and that it would be the time for a second reading. However, I agree or I understand that if the applicant took into account the strong comments made today by the discussers, he could also prepare for a second reading such a law as would be acceptable, perhaps with a smaller amendment here and there. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you, Comrade Kebrich, for the debate. I give the word to the Victory of Jelinčič Trimenite, but the debate for which he had the opportunity is cancelled. That's why I give the word "magic." Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. To begin with, I would honestly ask the representative of the government whether he really meant whether the government really meant to move forward with this law, with all this scope of rights, the imbalances, which in fact were confirmed by all the parliamentary groups. I have a different feeling myself. It is clear from all the words and from the law itself that the key to this law is the VI. Chapters to make this package look nicer, nicely wrapped, you added those provisions on the current President and said it was necessary. The current President, as we can see, works well, despite the fact that you say he does not have all the necessary legal provisions, I think he is excellent. And on the other hand, with all these options that the law would have given him at his disposal, it would have created the great power of the former President. On one occasion, Mr Drnovšek responded to the question of how he felt about the current President and said, "The current President, Mr Kučan, works mainly from the background." How will it be if he works from behind and has all the equipment as the current president? That's not a decent thing to say. If this is what the head of state says openly in an interview, then we have to think about it. Parliamentary democracy, an integral part of the institution of the President of the State, is such that it needs to be inspected extremely. We should follow other countries with solid parliamentary democracy. In order to follow the most consumer, Germany, it should be taken into account that this is the Federal Republic of Germany. The Federal Republic of Germany and it has a different tradition somehow. But when we look at nearby countries, they have a much more appropriate way. The approach to not putting the president in trouble when it follows the example of citizens who share the fate of social insurance and the system for ordinary citizens is not taken into account. Look, Slovenia is so small - I won't say big in terms of mental potential. However, the number of inhabitants does not reach one fifth of the citizens of Paris with their surroundings, of course, what controls it, or a fifth. What would mean that after the expiry of his term of office, the mayor of Paris should have five times better benefits than the Slovenian President? How many more places like this? Full disregard for the real socio-economic situation. We are now having a debate on certificates where people have lost all value. The pensioners are asking me if it's a pension freeze. That's what the citizens are asking. But we are wasting time here because the proponent, the government, has introduced such a law, impossible law to promote such a debate, rather than to judge what it is, what is happening to this country. Not only is the provisions themselves, as far as nomotechnics and contradictions are concerned, but the content does not correspond to the proportionality of the economic situation of our country. I'm sure I know this won't have any special reaction in public. The public's melted. Otherwise, it will be communicated in such a way that we have argued here because we are unworthy. However, the government is serious, and the nonsense that we Members are doing will be settled. This will be the final message to this public and the caravan will move on. Unfortunately, she'll go on like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thanks, mag. It's a trifle. I give my word to the next debater, Frances Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Respectable. Something has already been said. I'd only touch one problem. Article 21 merely ensures that the former President will receive 90 per cent of the salary of the President of the Republic as compensation - or up to that amount - as compensation, whether he is unemployed or employed or retired. And it's a lifetime. And in article 22, in this resolution, which allows for further such a method of work, as mentioned by the Prime Minister and also by the Member, it is said that he also has the right to an office space, to the professional assistance of counsellor and administrative and technical staff - I emphasise, plural, staff - the right to personal protection, which of course means at least four security guards, because it is 24 hours long, Friday, saint, but four are not enough because they are still permits, sick and so on, and also to the continued use of the service vehicle and driver. I don't know if one driver's enough. And it's a lifetime, gentlemen! After a quick calculation, after a quick calculation, taking into account 90 percent of the compensation, then the office with a rent of 100 thousand - minimum, counsellor - gross million per month; administrative and technical staff; only two employees I calculated with a low salary - net, a gross-million 400, both together; security, only 4 guards I counted - 800 thousand that is 3 million 200 per month, a vehicle, only 100,000 per month, so to speak, a middle class with depreciation, at least 5 years and a driver with a modest gross salary of 800 euros, only one driver I got 7 million 600 per month. Given that we will soon have several former presidents and if we count the average age of the President - somewhere in 50 years - we will probably have six former presidents in 30 years, given the average age of Slovenians. Perhaps one or the other will be in the nursing home, yet he will have the right to do so. Then it'll be 45 million dollars a month. So per year, $547 million. Gentlemen, at a time of such unemployment, at a time when the number of people who fall below the poverty line is much higher, at a time when it is paid by many workers, workers who are still lucky to be at work, 100,000, that is 100 wages 100 workers, 100 wages. And of course, in such situations it is buying a expensive car and a similar law as proposed here, in some way "perla", vampiring an authority that acts as the owner of state funds. Gentlemen, this is a hard word because the situation is also difficult. I hope that this disgrace will be avoided by the proposaler and that he himself will withdraw from the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you for the debate. The next discusser will be colleague Franci Rokavec. He's cancelling the debate. Mr. Sasha Pece would be next, but I don't see him in the hall. Let's move on to the next debater, colleague Joseph Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Personally, I think it would be good if the area proposed by the law were regulated by legislation. However, such a law should remain within the realistic framework of the country's needs and material potential and be guaranteed democratic direction. However, we need to ask ourselves where the requirements and proposals on the benefits and rights set out in VI measure. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020. At the time of his introduction, this law was popularly referred to as 'the President or former President', and I think I have heard many such opinions that if it is voted in a form as proposed by the government, it should be named by the right name, that it is 'the law on the life-giving President'. I must say this, that at a meeting when people proposed, I was appalled at the luxuries it foresees and the intentions it carries in itself, but that in this case we should suggest that, if the government does not intend to withdraw from such a one, the title of the former President should also be assigned to the marshal. In fact, the point is that it actually means that the President's office could be permanent. In fact, the Cabinet, which is covered by Article 22, associates with this. And we know that the cabinet is typical of people with great formal and informal power. Such a resolution and interpretation of the former President's status leads to the existence of double values in our society, and double values are dangerous derivatives of double morality. We would expect that both the government and former officials in a situation where they must be aware that the country has committed itself abnormally during their reign and that our children and our next generation will be left with enormous debts, in order to try, at least in the light of the example of personal modesty, to help our children and our next generation not to overwhelm these burdens of our offspring. A special phenomenon is how it is possible that people who have vowed their whole lives to work together, equality, at a time when such equality could come to life, begin to refer to their informal power and influence and show such a will to power. However, I agree that the former President must have certain special privileges, special rights. In fact, the institution, I agree, the President of the country is a constitutional institution, and even after the end of his post he must act in some way in accordance with what he has done in life. It must have some special benefits in participation and protocol tasks, which are also linked to the scope of these tasks for former presidents. In particular, because of the concern that by enforcing some of the solutions contained in this law, I am opposed to the fact that the law with such solutions goes into further proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thanks for the debate. The next discusser will be Janez Cimperman, who I give him my word for. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law that, without a bad conscience, I can claim to be written on the skin, like many others who have already been adopted in this national assembly, of course, with the difference that they have been written on the skin of the ruling political structures or lobby within them. This bill is written on the skin of one person, a person acting as President of the Republic or a person who ends up as President of the Republic and its spouse. I will touch only three articles of this bill. After the expiry of the mandate, the President of the Republic, as set out in Articles 18 and 21 of this bill, will be compensated for two years for unemployment in the amount of the President's salary. After the pension is in effect, he will receive an additional pension allowance of between pension and 90 per cent of the presidential salary. I do not object to the appropriate remuneration, as stated in Articles 18 and 21, but this - unfortunately - is not all that the bill envisages. Article 22 provides for the privilege of darkening one’s eyes. Article 22 to the President of the Republic - I think we have heard several times today - which has ceased to function, confers a life-long right to an office space, professional assistance to an adviser, administrative and technical staff, the right to personal protection to protect the facility in which he resides and to the continuous use of the service vehicle and driver. I agree that a law must be adopted to regulate this area. However, I do not agree with the dictatorship set out in Article 22 which allows unacceptable privileges, whether it be today's President or President, who will be leaving office in five, 10 or more years. The bill does not mention how many people will be employed in the former President's office, nor does it say how much taxpayers' money will be needed to maintain that benefit. However, I am convinced that a fairly large amount of money will be needed for all the needs envisaged in this bill. I don't really understand where the money's going to come from. Maybe from pensions, social transfers or something. I wonder, colleagues and colleagues, how is it that the President of the State has not made any comments on the law, since it is an unacceptable benefit paid by taxpayers. Or perhaps, if you'll excuse me, the draft proposal for this law has even taken it out of the Presidential Palace? I don't know. Maybe. It would be interesting to hear what the current President thinks about this proposal. I haven't heard that question today. If this bill is adopted, as has already been mentioned, we will pay more presidents and more Presidential offices in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you, too, for the debate. Next debater, colleague Franz Pukšič. Please. Mr. Cimperman, if you turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The text of this law, which refers to the provision of conditions for the exercise of the presidency of the Republic, is, in fact, the most secret of the VI. the heading "Rights of the President of the Republic after the end of office". Before we talk about this VI. I have something to say to the chapter, and I would like to say something about Article 3. Article 3 states: "In order to carry out the presidency of the Republic, the Government shall determine, in agreement with the President of the Republic, the premises for the office of the President of the Republic, the residence of the President of the Republic and the facilities of protocol." I think otherwise that this should be determined and know what the President's premises are, know what residence is, and know what protocol facilities are. Each President cannot in particular invent and determine, together with the Government of certain designated premises. Or rather, I even think that the residence of the President of the Republic is actually owned by the Republic of Slovenia. See, the special housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia had three houses in Murglah in an elite quarter. These three houses were purchased by three officials. One of them is current President Milan Kučan. Since this house was purchased for the battles of 47,000, 48,000 German Marks, the appearance of modesty actually shines. Is this house with 190 square feet in Murgle really no longer worth it, or is it a form of modesty from this point of view that the buyer no longer had the means? Well, given that he is performing an important state function, I would expect or expect, I rightly expect, and that is also what the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia expect, that the current President, when he is no longer, will receive these funds, and that would be fair. It would be fair and, of course, the residence stays. So that's how we have the President's residence. At least, as far as I'm concerned, I would have taken on nominal value, that is, the share he invested in getting those 48,000 marks back. I hope the government won't be as guilty here as investors in the telecommunications network, where it only returns 20% to 40%. God help him, President, if he only gets 20 to 40% refunded; of course, I don't want him to. And I'd like it to come back the way it was put in. Otherwise, it would limit it to another office. In fact, according to some information, not only how much it is worth, it is worth at least a factor of 10 times, but in this protocol facility or residence there are other works of art, which are not only financial but also historical value. So with this - and I expected this to somehow be recorded in the transitional provisions - this black mark is actually eliminated. There is no excuse for any Jazbinski law or such when buying apartments in some blocks, workers and workers who invested it. As far as VI is concerned. Chapters which, in particular, in Article 22, discuss what has been said - and there has already been a lot of talk today - what should be left for the former President to do after the end of his term of office, from the official vehicle, the driver, the security guards, the protection of the facility and so on, I agree with all those who have found that the Presidential function is the same as that of our Constitution, and I agree that this part of the law is in line with the law on Members when they no longer perform their parliamentary functions. It is certainly unacceptable what is stated in Article 22 for the following reasons: over 100,000 unemployed, the economic crisis, the lack of housing for young families, colleagues and colleagues, but a lack of student rooms. And such a dispersion on one side and on the other, all of this is completely incomprehensible. Increasing differences in parts of the country, inconsistent development, on the one hand, do not have people for water or electricity, do not have to survive, are on the verge of poverty, and lagging behind in the countryside, and, of course, such additional rights with special law for one person. In fact, this adds to the debate, which, in a democratic country where Article 2 of the Constitution states that we are a legal and social state, we cannot take over and we cannot afford such discriminatory legislation; it is necessary that certain rights of the President, after the end of the term of office, are maintained or are still able to carry out a particular matter, but all is sufficient if it is linked to a period of one year, as is the case with the former Prime Minister, Ministers and Members. Of course, there can be no difference here. The fact is, in a normal democratic country, you expect, when elected by the President of the State, to bring yourself, when elected, to the residence and to the office premises with your personal vehicle and to leave the residence, from the premises with the service vehicle, with all that belongs to him after the performance of his post. And the fact is that when his mandate expires, of course, he comes from these premises with what he came before the exercise of his mandate. This is normal in democratic countries. But the rest, of course, is more for some dictatorial, for some monarchy, for some other arrangement. We have decided, with our constitution, that, as we have written down, we have parliamentary democracy. That is why, of course, I cannot support such a splinter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you for the debate. It would now be the turn of fellow Member Paula Rupar, but he is also not present. The next panellist is a representative of the government, Dr Matjaž Nahtigal. He doesn't want to discuss it. With this, we have exhausted the list of reported debaters. We have some time left to discuss. In accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I would now like to invite you to a discussion. Please report at this time. I won't take any later applications into account. I saw a colleague of Sok and a colleague of Auschwitz. So, I'll give you two a chance to discuss it every five minutes. They warn me that for every 3.5 it is available to distribute equally. Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, when I have listened attentively to all these discussions, I am particularly wondering what the Government's intention is to come to the parliamentary debate now with this proposal. So now that these presidential nominations are, I would say, already being announced and all these procedures for the election of the new President are under way. What is the purpose of this? For if you wanted to settle this area, you could have arranged it a long time ago if it really was as urgent as you are telling today, but if it wasn't so necessary, you could have waited until after 10 November. Nothing would have happened, because if I count on three debates, it is said, the elections will take place before this law is passed in Parliament. And I really want to know what the purpose of this marriage is. What does he want to do with it? I don't know, I can't somehow get lost feeling that maybe in this case it's really about regulating some favor. So that's where you work on two lines. Thus, the new incoming president, who is being announced in the media as an absolute winner, is somehow indemnifying for some expected support to the outgoing president. So this is my personal thought, but of course it's not random. It's designed for a certain purpose. And if that's what it's made of, then of course I find it wrong to do it that way. Secondly, it is interesting how the government presented solutions to other parliamentary democracies. You listed most of the countries, Eastern Europeans, transitions, which face the same problems or even more problems than we do in Slovenia, but you missed a whole series of Western European countries. However, if you have already mentioned them, I would like to know in what way this should be different from in neighbouring Austria, with a much longer democratic tradition. In what? Are we really such a rich country? We all agree that this, this matter needs to be settled, but listen, the proponents, which is too much, but it's too much. And if this is the case from the debate that the President needs to be given public reputation and moral authority, I wonder if this is really guaranteed by such ratings as are offered in this law. Do all those citizens in Slovenia who perform very important functions that do not have such privileges have no public reputation and have no guaranteed moral authority? I even think the opposite. And I think the president, the current one, who will be the first to be retired under this law, will come forward and say what he thinks. On the contrary, in the situation that some here have very detailed, with all this large number of unemployed, in the face of all these social problems that we have, with the health reform and the increase in health contributions announced, the fact that the deficit in the pension register is increasing and more and more money is coming from the budget, with more and more citizens living on the edge of poverty and some working and not earn enough to pay the bills that are being paid every day more. I do not think that in such a situation, we can maintain a person’s public reputation and contribute to moral authority. This is certain, for people will understand this matter differently. They want the President, the one who is in the presidency or the one who is saying good-bye to the presidency, to share fate with his people. And that would be fair and proper, everything else is immoral. I'm so sure of it myself. And these ratings, of course, are not in the style of strengthening the public [[...]] [[a warning sign, for the end of the debate.]] Do I have to stop? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u97	Please, if you'll just finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u98	If I had to stop, I would just call on the government to split up the cost that it has stated here, and what is the main disadvantage of this law, that you did not have the financial situation that this law will bring, predict that you would not sell us like this, I would say, orally, it would cost so much, that we would work it out, that we would see what you imagined under this law, how many people would care about the president who is leaving, and not only that, but also those who will show up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u99	Can you finish?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u100	Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I give the word to Jožet Ašić for the final debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I probably won't be that long, but I listened carefully to almost all the discussions. It seems to me that the law will probably get support as a suitable basis for the second treatment, but I think there has been a lot of warnings from different sides, including those who support the law that this law needs to be thoroughly ventilated and seen what and what it should be like to be ultimately when we adopt it. Unfortunately, the time for adoption of this law is quite inappropriate. But it is true that the government formed it already in March, but it was already late in March; it could have been late in all those ten years since we had this function, and of course it could have been after the elections, as my predecessor had just said. However, I think that when we consider this law, you do not want to somehow reflect on whether it is Milan, John, France or Barbara; that we must somehow imagine what this country wants, what the president wants and what this country actually offers. And that's what we're going to define here in this national council. The government has simply proposed, which is what, if we consider it, we will have to agree very responsibly on the extent of the so-called ratings. If these are ratings, they are probably, however, what is the extent of what might belong to the President after the end of his term of office. After all, we must be aware that we are talking about at least ten people in a single century there who will have to be escorted by the State in some way after the end of the post on the basis of the law we will adopt. So I kind of reject all of those discussions actually that bring some old things out like dwellings in Murgles, but also the worker who gave 10,000 marks for 50 square meters of housing was also profiting, much more than the one who lived in his own apartment house, so these are actually completely unnecessary discussions right now and the thing that was just absorbed by that famous Jazbinski law. I think it is also perfectly logical that the President of the country can look at certain archives that were created during his lifetime, even gold, if he ever prepares any lectures, which is usually in other European and also out-of-European countries, and he will need information. It would probably not be sustainable for him to pack what he thinks he needs in his suitcases and go home with them and then bring them to the table when he needs them and responds to them if necessary. In short, I think there have been some such debates that do not fall to the level of discussing the Presidential function, of course related to his constitutional duties, as well as the rights that this law could give, if adopted, after the end of his post. I will probably support the law myself, but I will also try to ensure that the rights and scope of rights are aligned with the real possibilities that this country can ensure both in terms of its size and its economic and financial power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you, Comrade Azhish. This is why the debate is exhausted and I am concluding it. [[The ad from the bench.]] Look, before I asked who else wanted to discuss it, I got two applications. But I only have to make one apology because I was wrongly informed that time is only three and a half minutes. We fixed the hour during your debate, Comrade Sok, for five minutes, so the matter is in accordance with the rules of procedure. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u104	If you can. We understood that, within the time available to us, we could still discuss and I think we have 14 or 20 minutes left, but you interrupted me. And I'm asking you why.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u105	I said now that I really got the information that it's only available twice after 3 minutes and half. And that's how I informed you. Then we set the hour of your debate for 5 minutes, as well as the time of debate of the individual Member, 5 minutes. And I had two applications. I think this is a five-minute debate. You can look at it in a magnetogram. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, the assembly will vote in the afternoon following the vote on all items of the agenda for today. Procedurally, Mr. Rokavec. Please, if it's in accordance with [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u106	Yes, the debate is linked to the agenda item. On the contrary, Mr President, I ask because a number of explicit questions were addressed to the government during the debate today. Will the government representative take this opportunity to answer these questions raised? Because I think it is still important that we hear the answers to these concerns expressed in the debate, even in the final decision on the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u107	Comrade Rokavec, this is not procedural in relation to the implementation of the Rules of Procedure. The representative of the government was given the opportunity, on my part, to give another answer in the debate, and he gave it up. And the point of his assessment of how from the existing debate, from the magnetogram and everything he noted, followed the proposal for a second reading law if we assess and confirm in the vote that the law is appropriate for another reading or for the continuation of the procedure. I interrupt the agenda until the vote, which will be held at the announced time. At 4:40 a.m., we will continue the meeting, with the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the bill on offences. Until then, it's a break. Thank you for your patience and cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u108	Dear government officials! We're moving on to 13. DOCTOR OF THE DAY — FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A BREAKDOWN LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, there is a group of 11 Members with a first-signed magi. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. That's what we're gonna do now. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. I ask for the word of Mr. Hinko Jenul.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The description of the situation in the area of offences is illustrated by the explanation of the law you have before you and would not repeat it. However, I would like to say that it is almost ten years before this proposal comes into existence. As early as 1993, work materials were produced for a new concept of criminal behaviour, under which a dichotomy system of penal law will apply in Slovenia, comparable to Western European countries. This means that there are only two types of criminal acts, criminal acts and offences. Accordingly, they have been removed as a separate type of criminal offence or reclassified as offences. At that time, it was also professionally and politically clear that it would be necessary to transform the judges for offences in criminal courts. This transformation has to date not been carried out and the procedure under which judges for offences are dealing with these acts is still not in line with the weight of these acts, which is also the main reason for the backlogs, the limitation of cases and the overload. The draft new law at the time was based on the views of the theory that the sanction for offences in the future should cover only a financial penalty, with a series of non-repressive measures such as reminders, the Institute of Minor Social Hazards, warnings and similar measures. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, at that time, considered that in 1995 it was more appropriate for those offences for which a prison sentence was to be imposed to turn them into crimes that would be dealt with by a regular court than for the wide area of administrative law to be transferred to judicial jurisdiction. On these grounds, a law was drawn up in 1995, which ended the first hearing and was withdrawn during the second reading. At that time, it was clear to the law that sufficient simplification of the infringement proceedings and other solutions were not envisaged to give greater powers to administrative, supervisory and only the most difficult to resolve to the perpetrators or to the courts of offences. In 1999, a new system law on offences began to be prepared more intensively, a second attempt that resulted in the proposal before you. Three possible solutions have been examined during the course of the expert discussions. Infringement authorities, such as administrative authorities with administrative authority, the transformation of judges for offences into criminal departments of regular or district courts or the establishment of specialised courts for offences. During the debate, there was a constant position made by the theory already in 1995, that there was a need for decriminalisation in the area of offences and a clear distinction in relation to crimes and a civil reaction, meaning a fine or a fine, only in the case of offences that turned into crimes, but only in the case of imprisonment. On this basis, the new Working Group has drawn up professional bases and on this basis a proposal has been drawn up for a law which provides the basis for the abolition of prison sentences for offences, and it is also concluded that this is possible provided that the most dangerous offences are identified as minor offences. However, the process of this transition is ensured by the transitional provisions of the proposal that the prison sentence for such an arrangement remains in force and these offences are dealt with under the law currently in force. Let me say that, according to our belief, the proposal you have before you meets all the conditions or requirements set out at the beginning of the reform of criminal law. In order to adapt the procedure to the type of sanction threatened, that is to say, to be divided into proceedings before a criminal body and proceedings before a judge or now a criminal court. Secondly, the dismissal of judges for offences by transferring work powers to criminal authorities and in the future provide only judicial protection in the majority of the cases. Thirdly, the sequence of proposed changes. Fourthly, to resolve the issue of the status of judges for offences at the same time, as follows from several decisions of the Constitutional Court, which make it clear that they must become an integral part of the judiciary. In the proposal you have before you, this is achieved through the establishment of specialised criminal courts, with a legal order for their current permanent term in the mandate of district or higher judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you, Secretary of State, for the addition, for the explanation of the proposal. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give the floor to my colleague, Mr Potsch, for the position of the Joint List Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Offences are also an integral part of illegal acts and the judicial system. Unfortunately, too, their expression is characterized by a lack of efficiency. In recent years, judges have solved more cases than their own, but at least one fifth in 2000 at the expense of the statute of limitations. There is no doubt, therefore, that fundamental changes are needed in the area of infringement proceedings. The proposed law is intended to provide them. We agree with these objectives of the law. We therefore expect an undisputed assurance from the proposer that greater efficiency will indeed be achieved. In particular, because we have already adopted a substantial legislative complement under the judicial system, which is intended to achieve the announced objective, so far, we have not provided solutions to all the targets that have been announced. The proposed law seeks to ensure greater efficiency through some substantial changes. For the first time, first-degree treatment and punishment is passed on to criminal authorities, which are bodies which are also obliged to take care of the implementation of a specific law. The applicant did not provide any information on how many cases would be discontinued under these provisions by the current Judges for Offences. There is no doubt that this would mean their relief. However, the question is whether the administrative authorities to which the competence will be delegated will be trained for a new competence immediately and to a sufficient extent. The law does not give all clear assurances in this direction, nor can the law itself give them. We would therefore expect a clear statement in this direction from the proposer. The Courts of Offences, as specialised courts, are expected to consider only complaints against the decision of the criminal authority in a new manner and to carry out a first-degree procedure in more difficult cases. It is hoped that these complaints will not be sufficient to eliminate the reduced impact of the transfer of powers to criminal authorities. We hope not, because the law retains the current payment order and because the request for judicial protection against the decision of the first-degree authority will not delay enforcement if the amount of the penalty, together with the costs of the procedure, does not exceed a certain amount. This is intended to reduce the desire to appeal only in order to postpone the payment of the penalty and to achieve any lapse, which has so far been an important reason for the complaint. This solution, therefore, shows greater rationality. Third time. Judges for offences as specialised courts become an integral part of the judiciary. Therefore, their organisation is also changing. Let us hope that nothing like changing the jurisdiction of the courts will happen. The courts argue today that the main backlogs are due to the change of jurisdiction and the transfer of files to say, from one court to another. However, it is also fair to say that if, until further action is taken, those cases transferred to other bodies remain within the jurisdiction of the courts for offences, in order to delay their effectiveness for at least some time. It would be a good idea for these things to be clarified. Fourth time. We agree that the courts for offences become an integral part of the judiciary as specialised courts and that this law definitively decides that judges are judges for infringements of the conditions of appointment, promotion, rights and, therefore, of the judiciary and judges. In doing so, they must also be provided with their representative in the Council of Justice. It would be useful to explain why the courts for offences are provided for in the regional rank and remain specialised courts in the rank of district courts. Fifthly, and finally, the proposaler considers that the possibility of imprisonment should be excluded in the future system of punishing offences under the jurisdiction of the courts for offences. In the future, only regular courts are expected to pass a prison sentence. In order to achieve this objective, it will be necessary to amend the criminal code and to provide for new criminal offences which will criminalise some of the worst forms of offences that have so far been threatened with imprisonment. In doing so, the government is saying that it is planning to amend the law on criminal proceedings, including the imposition of mandatory punishment, to ease objections to the handling of such acts. This is the possibility that criminal offences under the jurisdiction of the District Court may be issued with a criminal order whereby the accused is subject to the proposed criminal sanction or measure without having to be dealt with in the main proceedings. The government therefore considers the concept presented to be a burden on the courts for offences, since district courts would deal with the smallest number of cases instead. Thus, more time would be left for the courts to deal with other but equally important cases which have, in many cases, become obsolete due to the overload of judges for offences. However, an increased number of criminal cases could be dealt with more effectively by the District Courts in a criminal procedure or a procedure based on recognition or documentary evidence. New offences under transitional provisions must be established within two years and by then the courts may also impose prison sentences. The Government's proposals deserve a re-evaluation and further argument. The concept can be good, but it may also be idealized. There are several questions that support the request for additional justification. First of all, each reorganisation also causes problems and time delays that are difficult to predict in advance. If there are clear and indisputable effects, it is worth considering. So far, none of the organisations in the judiciary has provided full efficiency. It is not clear how many cases would have been brought before the courts and how much the courts would have been really burdened by this. I think that assessment would suggest that we do it again. There is no clear assessment of how effective punishment could be given to regular courts in criminal departments. If there were, why would it not be possible to bring him before the judges for offences as well, and it is necessary to make a complete change of jurisdiction? However, if the penalty could not be applied in the event of a prison sentence, - it is possible, since the defendant's hearing is the basis for the protection of human rights - then the question is how far would the desired objectives be achieved with this proposal, since there would be more hearings in criminal courts. Finally, it is not clear whether or not it is possible to count on the effects of the transfer of the prison sentence from the offence to the regular courts in that it is necessary to amend the penal code and the criminal procedure law, only later would this be realized. We believe that this question therefore calls for serious consideration. Let me finish. Intervention into the system of offences is fundamental. Basically, it's a compliment, and I don't think we'd be working, I'd say, artificial questions about that. However, it is good to say that the intervention is so radical that at some points it is also possible to check the time and content dimensions of this effectiveness so as not to go into any reform without having really strong assurances of its success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Slovenia. My friend Franz Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law on offences. We welcome the objective of achieving greater efficiency in the area of offences, which I think is one of the main reasons why we have decided to do so. However, allow me to make a few more comments on this proposal. First of all, I would also like to touch on the possibility of remedying the complaint. We believe that it is absolutely impossible to say that this is an absolute rationalisation of work, as the law provides for the establishment of new additional courts. It is necessary to provide for the lodging of a request for judicial protection. This, in our opinion, will not reduce the number of objections in the form of requests for judicial protection. In our view, the current judges, who are already in chronic lags as far as complaints are concerned, will be further burdened and the new courts will only be amended and supplemented with judicial protection. I would also like to associate myself with the comments of the Senate's judges on offences that oppose this concept, in particular in terms of the deletion of the prison penalty as the possibility that judges have so far had for offences. We are also of the opinion that it would take into account the fact that this possibility or this amendment would also require an appropriate amendment to the penal code, not only in the light of the identification of new offences, but also in the light of the new penalties for road traffic offences. Here I think it is important to resolve the serious road safety violations for which a prison sentence has been envisaged so far. As regards the comments on the article itself, I would like to point out that we have a comment on Article 49 of the bill, which, inter alia, states in the fourth indent that the type and degree of education and the content of the professional examination for the management and decision of the infringement procedure are prescribed by the Government. We are of the opinion that this appropriate level of education and competence for the exercise of powers under this law and the ZUP should be enshrined in the legislative proposal itself. As regards Article 51 of the draft law, which states that the criminal authority, after establishing the conditions for initiating the procedure under official duty or after receiving the proposal referred to in the preceding Article, collects additional notices and evidence of the offence, points out that no further evidence and notice of the offence is described in this paragraph, under what rules an official collects additional evidence and notices of the offence. That's why he's telling me to think about this. With regard to article 50, which refers to the initiation of the proceedings and provides that the proceedings of an offence shall be initiated on an official basis, when it says, "a criminal authority within the scope of jurisdiction for that purpose shall, in any act or by making a written proposal to the injured party, the State Prosecutor or the State Authority," we have commented on how the data will be provided by the injured party, who may be a natural person in this case. This is information that needs to be provided for the initiation of the procedure. But these would be fundamental, our fundamental comments on the proposal for a law on offences. In general, as I have already said, in particular with a view to achieving greater efficiency, we support the legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you, Comrade Sušnik. Following is the position of the Liberal Democrats' Group of Members, which will be presented by colleague Dusan Vukko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The complexity of economic and, of course, legal regulation also dictates the issue of ever-new rules and the regulation of new relations. This increases the number of offences prescribed and incriminates acts, including social contradictions between what is commanded and what is desired and the conduct of their addressees. The current analysis has shown a practically uncontrollable number of infringements. According to the latest data of the Ministry of Justice, on 12 July 2002 there were 261 laws and 53 regulations in Slovenia, which jointly set out more than 4 thousand 300 different offences. It is necessary to give further infringements imposed by their regulations by local communities. Such a situation when it is found that the inefficiency of prosecution and the sanctioning of offences undermines the fundamental principles of the rule of law because it has a negative impact on legal discipline if practice shows that a large number of offenders can be avoided, requires us and, of course, the government to move towards greater effectiveness of the infringement procedure. Reform is therefore necessary and necessary. Therefore, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports the proposal for a law aimed at ensuring greater effectiveness of the criminal procedure following the following principles or baselines: adapting the procedures to the type of sanctions at risk, burdening the judges with violations by transferring the powers of the criminal authorities, then the graduality of the proposed amendments and the resolution of the issue of the status of judges for offences, as is the case with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In the LDS Club, we believe that the proposed regulation allows for the definition of the type of procedure and the jurisdiction of the body to deal with it, when coordinating and also prescribing new offences according to their social importance or threat by imposing sanctions in accordance with the system law. An important starting point for the proposed regulation is also the unloading of judges for offences. The abolition of the sentence in question allows for the jurisdiction of criminal authorities to be determined in all cases where a fine is prescribed, so-called fine. This clearly simplifies the procedure, since the body which has discovered the offence and collected evidence of its service also decides on the very saying of the sanction. Only for a small part of the offences where sanctions are imposed which affect fundamental human rights and obligations, shall the jurisdiction of future judges or courts for offences be laid down at the first stage. We also welcome the intention of the law to gradually enforce these changes and, in particular, to definitively regulate the status of judges for offences. The current position of judges for offences according to our assessment is not satisfactorily regulated. Judges cannot be dealt with outsidely, but only within the judicial branch of authority, whose part they undoubtedly are, because they have a permanent mandate and have the same position as the District Judges. According to our assessment, the current organisation of criminal courts is too fragmented. A large number of so-called single-person bodies cause problems in the current work and overload cannot be addressed differently from a significant increase in the number of judges and their staff. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The LDS Club supports the proposal of the law, but contrary to the proposal, it will seek to reorganise judges for offences in terms of the merger of these authorities with the District Courts. Why? In particular, we are led by human resources and financial effects in such a reorganisation. With the reorganisation of judges for offences in individual criminal departments within the District Courts, judges of these courts would be, by law, judges of the District Courts, which is possible because they already have a permanent mandate and the same position. They would be allocated for offences in the light of the expected smaller number of these cases, as well as for the resolution of criminal proceedings, including traffic offences resulting from the requalification of the largest offences. The increased number of criminal judges and the concentration in one body will ensure the possibility of specialisation, substitution and rationalisation of work. In view of the existing data, the reorganisation of offenders could significantly reduce the number of jobs systemised or occupied, particularly for other administrative and technical workers. These could be reassigned to other unoccupied posts by district courts or other tasks. For example, tasks relating to the Land Book, execution. The reorganisation could also bring some savings on the business premises of the current offenders. Most of the premises where offenders are judges are leased and for these leases the state has to pay quite a lot of money. After the reorganisation, it can be expected that the cost of such rentals should be reduced at least for those offenders who have their seat outside the seat of the District Court, if their staff could, of course, move to the seat of the District Court. Of course, in the event of such a reorganisation of judges for offences, the issue of the burden of district courts may be raised. In the LDS, we believe that there will be no overburden in this regard if we take into account the statistics available. Thus, we estimate that the requalification of certain offences into criminal offences will result in a maximum of 4,000 cases per year. In view of the current scope of the work of district courts in criminal cases, where the average annual occurrence is approximately. 10,000 cases a year, it turns out that with overqualified crimes committed, this burden would not be excessive. On the basis of statistics, it can be estimated that the regular procedure will cover a maximum of half of the cases that are now being resolved by judges for offences. According to the 2001 statistics, these cases would be around 113,000. We can also include cases arising from requests for judicial protection in this assessment. According to our assessment, it will be in accordance with the new law of cca. 110,000 offenders have filed for judicial protection. This assessment is based on data on the status of cases before the Senate of Offences of the Republic of Slovenia, where the scope of the complaint is approximately 6-7%. Taking these data into account, the change of jurisdiction will also change the case of infringements and burdens, which is expected to amount to approximately 127,000 cases per year for district courts, which, on the other hand, means – and this information seems very important to me – the burden of around 900 cases on an individual judge, which is a third of the burden so far. And for higher courts about 12,500 appeals cases, which on the other hand means a burden for about 800 cases on the judge, which amounts to half of the current burden of these judges. These data do not take into account current backlogs, which should be highlighted in particular. On the basis of all these data and assessments, we are convinced in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that our proposal after the reorganisation of judges for offences is more than justifiable and, above all, ensures greater efficiency and rationalisation. That is why we call on other parties in Parliament to support our proposal in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you for your position. My colleague, Franci Rokavec, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! The area of offences is certainly an area which concerns the vast majority of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. A number of infringement rules provide for sanctions in the form of an offence. It is probably not an exaggeration to say that most citizens are also actively familiar with the area. The current situation is that we have a law of 1983 with numerous corrections and an unpredictable array of various offences that have been established non-systemically, following the current inspiration of the proponents. All of this prevents sufficient knowledge of the offences and allows different interpretations of citizens and also of officials. It is also known that an incredibly small percentage of the penalties imposed are actually sanctioned. In fact, this puts in a funny light all those who acknowledge the error and pay the penalty and question the rule of law. If the offenses are sanctioned, we'd better get them out of the way, get them out of the way. We therefore consider the drafting of a new system law on offences to be a very necessary and well-founded step. We expect that the area of offences will be regulated in such a way that the offences will be determined systematically and transparently. That the organisation of the criminal body will be rational, rapid and effective. That the procedures will be determined, but certainly before the expiry of the procedure. To encourage the immediate settlement of fines. The criminal must, of course, have legal options, including judicial protection, but it is necessary to prevent attempts to make unnecessary complaints and to delay proceedings. It is already necessary to draw attention to the responsibility of the executive and administrative authorities. Disclosure authorities, police, inspection, customs, tax administrations will have to prepare as soon as possible to decide on offences involving additional education and the introduction of workers, including for all necessary technical and software. As regards organisational changes, it will be necessary to examine if the introduction of a new type of specialised court, as proposed, makes sense. The applicant did not present compelling reasons for this, in particular irrespective of the possibility of transferring powers to district courts with possible external departments, provided that this would prove necessary. In the case of sanctions, it is appropriate to include such ones with a warning nature, warnings, warnings, so that the fine is not the first and only means by which it takes place. It will be necessary to look at all the provisions in the rules governing offences and to establish consistency with the new law and to comply as soon as possible. The Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the adoption of the law, but they would end up asking the government: What are the effects of a change in the law that allows payment of half the amount within 8 days when the sentence is imposed? So how many penalties should be paid more according to the statistics, and how much money did the state give up? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you, too. Mr Sašo Peče will give the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u119	Your Honor! How different we are! The rate of crimes committed is increasing in our society, and the level of illegal activity in our society is increasing. You, or this national assembly, are legislating a new law that will be nicer to this mass phenomenon that is in our society. No one can say that these phenomena are no longer from day to day, that they are normal phenomena that accompany the transition, especially such a transition that has bad legislation. And we will go from one kind of legislation, to another kind of bad legislation. I think it makes no sense for the State or the National Assembly to eliminate sanctions in the form of a prison sentence for offences as well. If it is considered that this will make the judiciary more effective because we will narrow down the possibility of punishment, then it is a bad way to create efficiency in the judiciary. Then we can simply say that nothing is a crime anymore, and they will be judges on a regular basis. But I don't think it's in the interest of the state or the government or this national council. In short, I don't think I'm going to be too long, and I think we've come to the point where we're lawizing the time or the life of this country, when money is going to absolve crime, and I don't think that's right. We won't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thanks, buddy. And the position of New Slovenia, which will be presented by colleague Majda Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the House of Respect! Certain offences which, while being negatively assessed and considered to be criminal offences and which are defined as offences in society, fall within the category of offences covered by the Offences Act, which lays down the substantive and procedural conditions for the conduct of the infringement proceedings. For a long time, however, there have been more and more positive initiatives to change, to complement and improve this law or to adopt a new law, since the old law is almost 20 years old and has been adopted in a completely different social system. Therefore, it is certainly right that with the new law we want to harmonise the law on offences with our constitutional arrangements, the rest of the legislation, which I am referring to as a criminal code, and with international pacts and obligations. And thus for the comprehensive regulation of the area of offences and its place in the system of criminal law, and it is not a negligible area of human rights which is also concerned by the law on offences. The data show that the judges for offences and the Senate for offences committed in the field of offences are based on cases and are ineffective. Therefore, at the end of the year, many pending cases are still pending in the coming years, which means, inter alia, ineffective recovery of fines and costs. The figures already show that the judges dealt with more than 200,000 offences in 2000 and that 44,000 cases are obsolete, which is a good fifth, show that the current law is completely ineffective. Given that only 10% of the fines imposed are recovered, the picture of inefficiency is even clearer. The fact is, however, that the number of offences is constantly increasing, including through laws and regulations laying down infringements and penalties to change their content and their degree of social danger. In the new proposal, the proposer retains in principle the solution that judges for offences are treated as part of the judicial authority, and this principle is also applied in an organisational and normative manner. On the other hand, it retains for offenders all constitutional rights which go according to the type of procedure and sanctions. We're supposed to have 11 counts of misdemeanors. We now have 55 organs for offences, which does not mean fewer judges for offences. Le-tech is 137. Criminal judges will have the status of district judges. Judges in a higher court, now a Senate for crimes of 14 and the status of senior judges. The proposer assures us of the rationalisation of the system and of the necessary expenditure, but we are not sure that this will actually happen. Will there be 11 courts in the future established centres of the regions for offences involving external departments in the areas of district courts and with the possibility of operating also in the places where the authorities for offences are now established, indeed fewer people employed and thus fewer costs, and that more efficiency will be achieved by decommissioning the offenders by introducing a special procedure before the criminal authorities? The new law is a system law that leaves a number of open issues, which will certainly have to be addressed by additional rules also with regard to the level of individual penalties. However, it will no longer contain a prison sentence, which has already been pronounced exceptionally by judges and can last up to 60 days. On payment, as we like to say or in eight days, the fine will be lower than the prescribed range. However, in the event of a later payment or waiting for a decision, it will be higher and costs will be added. Is such a solution good? How much is the state deprived of? Offence judges will address individual cases only if a request for judicial protection is filed, which will not delay the payment of the penalty in cases where this would be less than 250,000 for an individual or 5 million for a legal person or an entrepreneur. In the event that the offender does not pay the penalty, the so-called refoulement prison shall be taken into account, which shall last until the penalty is paid or for a maximum period of 30 days. In exchange for the payment of a sentence or prison, offenders will also be able to do community service. However, it is for the Court to decide not to provide that the payment of a fine shall be immediately recovered, taking into account all the circumstances, possibilities and assets of the perpetrator. Therefore, in the new case, the level of the penalty will be imposed by the criminal authorities instead of the judges, i.e. the law enforcement authorities, the police, the inspectors and the place of enforcement will assess whether the act is a violation or not, whether it is a crime on the spot or not, or whether it is a proposal to initiate a procedure or not. They will therefore be completely independent in their decision and will not have to explain their decision. This also gives them greater authority and gives them greater confidence. That is why a number of provisions will need to be strictly completed. In our New Slovenia Group, we are aware of the need of New Slovenia for offences that will be effective, which will give citizens and citizens the sense that they live in the rule of law and that they are provided with legal discipline and that Slovenia, with such a law as a country with an effective legal order, will be able to take sides with the countries that want to join the European Union. We have supported efforts for a new law that has lasted for many years. It's a big and deep operation. There are still a number of questions that are open. We are afraid, but we note the fear that in practice the law will not behave as the proponents do, especially in terms of efficiency, because we have very little experience in terms of judicial reform. No reorganisation in justice has been fully successful so far. Will we have another experiment in a sensitive area that will leave us feeling bad and without real results? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you, colleague Maja Zupan. These were the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. I'd have the word "magic" first. Majda Potrat, and I think she's got less than five seconds left, if I'm correctly informed, two seconds. Comrade Run, will you use this? Thank you very much. The next debater who has been reported, Comrade Jožef Jerovšek – he is not among us. That is why I would like to give the floor to my colleague Victory Jelinčič, who is also not among us. Would it be my colleague Maja Zupan's turn again to please you with the time you've had? Thank you. Joze Tanko, SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. In my discussion, I would particularly touch on the fourth part of the bill, namely the part concerning the organisation of work and the external sections, namely paragraphs 219 and 220. The law also introduces significant changes in this area by substantiating large financial savings as the number of offenders is significantly reduced, from 55 to 11. These will have a seat in the regional centres. External departments will be organised in the area of district courts. It is clear from this that some current delinquency authorities will lose not only the status of the external departments, but even the possibility that they will be terminated. In fact, this means that the availability of State services in some areas will now deteriorate significantly, as the distance to services under this law will increase significantly. Instead of a friendly country and strengthening state infrastructure, there is a centralisation and a substantial increase in the costs of citizens from certain areas that will receive these services in far more remote locations. I believe that the exclusive criteria for the network of public services and authorities cannot be merely a cost of the office, but that there is a need to take account of others, especially important criteria for citizens. The country may actually save some money, but the costs of citizens will be significantly higher. They will be greater due to a greater waste of time, as there is a wide range of unregulated public transport networks, which will also result in more additional transport and other costs. While the legal text allows for the possibility of the operation of court departments for offences in places where the current headquarters of the criminal procedure authorities are, such a solution is only too conditional and follows that it is not permanent. Thus, there is a serious fear that such units will, until now, cease and move to larger urban centres. With such proposals, they are moving away from some environments, and I can say high-quality jobs, which certainly does not contribute to equitable development, and the countryside is moving away from all priorities. I agree with the proposer that the financial service can be organised substantially differently. It is also clear that it is possible to organise significantly differently the way on-calls are carried out and the way they are prepared at home, and this can be organised perhaps in the same way as on-calls are handled in some other institutions. However, I am convinced that the regulation of the criminal courts so far is satisfactory to ensure the proper coverage of the State and thus accessibility, so it would be reasonable to make it clear in the law that the existing network of courts and external branches of the criminal judges does not change. I hope that you will also support this proposal in further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thanks, buddy Tanko. There is also a discussion by a colleague of Saš Pečet, who is not in the Chamber. I also give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Jenul, if he wishes to speak. Please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. I will try to provide clarifications to Members who have addressed questions directly or indirectly regarding the proposal. Mr Potrč points to the question of what will be the transfer of the number of cases to the criminal authorities and whether they will be able to do so. I want to ensure in this place that we have had serious and repeated discussions with those criminal authorities that will bear the main burden, these are the police and the inspectors. And according to this data, when we've checked the numbers that we can assess now, they will be able to do so; of course, organizational, human and other preparations will be needed. But there's something else I have to say. The membership of cases against criminal authorities and future criminal courts, however organised, will also depend on what sanctions will be imposed. In fact, any proposer proposing the adoption of a law will also be able to determine the type of procedure under which this procedure will be dealt with by sanction in a criminal provision. So, for a long time, it's impossible to give the exact numbers. The second issue was about reform and it would lead to backlogs because this is what every reform is doing. That is true, but the reform of the current judges for offences, the transformation into courts, is necessary. This is due to a large number of decisions by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The situation as it is now, I would say, is only partially covered by the Constitution, because the Constitution of the Court of Justice at the Office of Offences does not know; it knows the courts and judges of regular or specialised courts. We will make every effort if the law is adopted to ensure that reform is best prepared and that this transfer of cases will lead to the slightest delay. With the idea of either transforming the current authorities into separate courts or transferring them, as has now been the case, to the District Courts, our top assessment would happen in a package, that is, neither has it been necessary to change the entries, nor does systemisation need to be changed in the beginning, except formally, practically everyone can remain in their place and continue to work as before, and then those changes that are needed will be made. It is true that Member Potrč warns that the composition of the Judicial Council will have to be adjusted so that the specialised courts will also have their own representative. This can be done if the law receives support in the first hearing and in the later procedure by amending the Law on Courts, which establishes the composition of the judiciary in terms of which courts are elected and the quota they elect in the judiciary; but this is not constitutional matter, so there are no problems in this respect. Even with the prison sentence. That's all I'd say. 243 000 were fined last year and 340 imprisonments. Now, because of this 0.15 per cent, the procedural guarantee based on the position of the European Court of Human Rights must be consistent with what threatens the accused, regardless of what is specifically said, it is said that 200 and so many thousands of cases must be dealt with in a difficult procedure, because then 0.1 per cent of the sentence of imprisonment is actually imposed, in our opinion, it is possible to circumvent the general criterion of this case, the 340, so that these relevant acts are defined as criminal offences. With regard to the comments made by the Member, Mr Sušnik, I have written this down. We'll take a look. We believe that these are things that can be corrected in the second reading and in the third reading. The idea given by Member Vukko as well as Mr Rokavec concerning the reorganisation also. I think it's part of a law that actually represents a certain rounded whole. And it is possible, if this is supported, that the second reading will then translate these courts for offences into district courts, while we will not go past the warning of Member Tank that it is possible then to provide for departments where the judges for offences are already. This is also a provision that can still be aligned with the wishes and needs on the ground. I would answer one more question, I think it was asked by Mr Rokavec, which amounts will be less recovered. I must say that our experience is that the safe budget will be much richer than it has been so far. According to the current system, a fine shall be recovered by number in one-third of the cases and one-fifth shall be recovered after fines have been imposed. On the other hand, where the police issue payment orders, according to the data we have, the payment rate is 80 percent. This means that, confidently with this system, even with a discount, there will be much more money in the budget than ever before. Given the time, I can explain so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. This was a debate between Members and Members. We've got some time left. In accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask if anyone else would like to discuss it. [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, the assembly will vote in the afternoon following in the framework of the vote of the assembly for all items of the agenda. I'm breaking this agenda. I'm taking a break until 18.15 when we go to the vote. Thank you very much for your cooperation and rest this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u127	Dear Members and honourable Members, representatives of the government! We continue to work and move on to the vote on the proposals for decisions today. First, we continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Transport. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration. Can we move on to a decision? [[Yeah.]] We're voting. 67 present, in favour of 46 votes to 21. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, the first reading, is appropriate for further consideration. An explanation of vote, Mr. Bajuk, on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members. As I have already said in the debate, we have proposed a different decision, namely that this law, as it is prepared, is not suitable for first reading, because the key things that are important in this area are not taken into account, namely: 1. The government has not fully followed the objectives of the European Union directives governing public procurement today and has not aligned the law with the legal order or the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. 2. In this proposal, the Government has not unequivocally defined the powers of the State Audit Commission and has ensured that, in the procurement review procedures initiated at the request of the tenderers, it is obliged to fully protect the public interest and to eliminate also those illegalities and irregularities that are not subject to the request of the tenderers. 3. In this proposal, the Government did not provide judicial protection for the decisions of the State Audit Commission, as required by Article 2 of the Directive of the European Union and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. 4. The Government did not lay down the rules and procedure for early discharge of the members of the State Audit Commission, so that the State Audit Commission would be completely independent of the executive branch. 5. The Government did not include in the proposal all the reasoned amendments proposed by the State Audit Commission in its efforts to amend this law. We propose voting against this proposal and that the government prepare as soon as possible what the National Assembly has concluded on 9 October last year, namely to submit both laws, the Public Procurement Act and a new law on the revision of the public procurement procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote or the vote of the Group of Members anymore, we are moving to a vote. Let's vote! There are 70 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 21. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda – the first to consider the proposal for a law providing conditions for the presidency of the Republic. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the performance of the presidency of the Republic, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration. Explanations to the voice. On behalf of the Group of Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u130	No, on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u131	In my own name. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much. From the debate between Members and Members, it is more than obvious that virtually none of the parliamentary groups agree with even, I would say, the benefits of the former President's functions and virtually everyone sees some need for amendments and changes. Some parliamentary groups such as ours are more, and some parliamentary groups are fewer. I think that this has created a problem, because if we play with this law and amend it in the second and third readings, it will become our law, the law of the National Assembly, which it proposes for this function. I think that this will also leave us with this responsibility and everything about spending budgetary money, over-expenditure for this former President's position. I think it would be best if, on the basis of all the comments made here, we simply voted that this law is not a suitable basis for a follow-up procedure and, of course, a government based on clear guidelines, because it knows exactly what the position of the majority in this House is to propose a dictatorship, to delineate these, I would say, wishes. This law is likely to come from the presidential courts and not from the government. Therefore, I think it would be right for only the government to forget these comments, make a better or more appropriate proposal for Slovenian taxpayers and, of course, then come to Parliament with such content. I will therefore vote against the fact that the law is a suitable basis for further procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Petty Officer. On behalf of the Group or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u134	On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u136	We oppose this bill in the parliamentary group and will therefore vote against it. Firstly, since it is not submitted in accordance with all the business arrangements, it does not contain all the elements, which should include the law which the proposer submits to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for admission. We also disagree with the content of the provisions, both in terms of the provisions governing the benefits or rights of the President in office and in particular those relating to the time after the function. These things are not proportionate in line with the financial and material possibilities of our citizens, nor are they comparable to the regulations or regulations they have in neighbouring countries or in European countries. In particular, they are not comparable to that or given what our country is, what it has in the past and what the size of that country is. We are also opposed because the public debate and debate of the parliamentary groups have clearly shown that we cannot have such a law in our country and are also citizens against such regulation. In particular, regulation, which means an elite special principle where pension legislation does not apply, but something special. These are things that do not go parallel to the time that our citizens, especially those with the lowest incomes, experience. Our parliamentary group believes that this law is not appropriate and will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Rokavec will also explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the adoption of this proposal for a decision, in particular in view of the fact that it has also been clear in the debate that the proposal for this law, based on the provision of material status to the former President of the Republic, deviates significantly from similar arrangements in our comparable countries, but only significantly more developed countries such as the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the proposal for a law to ensure the competence of the former President of the Republic provides an extremely broad mandate, and in particular raises doubts as to the possibility of establishing a parallel role as President of the Republic. However, I will vote against this motion for a decision in particular because, despite the reasoned comments made during the public debate in Parliament and despite the time-frame, the government representative did not answer the essential questions in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Lavrinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thank you very much. This law is an excellent polygon for all the demagogues in this House, as if it were, for example, a law on Members, and it also reminds me of it. Just as we used to bump up there once too much and the second time we were too humiliated, that's what happened here. I personally believe that the law in the part where it governs the situation and conditions for the current President is completely corrected and fine. It was a common thread for all the debaters, which is that too much has been evaluated or set up all the rights that would go to the former president. I am also of the opinion that this is disproportionate to the country in which we live and, of course, because down it always makes it possible, with, in fact, beautiful corrections in the individual articles governing this area, to reduce this thing. Because I personally believe that this National Assembly will be able to have sufficient wisdom in weighing how much more is acceptable and how much what is actually unacceptable, I will of course support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support the possibility of marriage going to second reading either. However, I must say that I do not agree with some who say that the law may have come as a proposal from the Presidential Courts, although I am personally disappointed because I was expecting there to be an appeal to everyone, but to consider that this law is too elaborate, that it has too many benefits and of course would look at the fact that I apologize first, perhaps we are all looking too much at the current President. I would like to make a proposal, and I will make it later, in view of how many times in public some of the current officials are showing themselves in luxury, with what luxury to continue this luxury later on, when they are no longer in office. I don't know. I have a suggestion that if you're ten times photographed with golf and you drive it alone, have golf then. [[...]] If, I don't know how many times, you run in t-shirt shoes in the woods, run around the woods in t-shirt shoes. And so on. So, modesty when it comes to showing how modest we are, and luxury when modesty in your campaigns is no longer needed. I'm disappointed that there was no appeal from the Presidential Courts against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Kebrich. Do you want to do it on your behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u145	Mr. Kebrič, just a question: Will you explain your voice in your own name? Here you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u146	In my own name. I believe that the law is necessary, but in such a form as this proposal, it is not acceptable. I also doubt that it could be properly corrected in another reading with amendments. That is why I believe that in view of everything that has been said, but I do not want to repeat or myself what I have said, I do not believe that the law is acceptable and therefore I will not vote for it. Therefore, I suppose we should think about it and give them the opportunity to change the government, take into account everything that has been given and resolve the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The purpose of this law is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u149	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u150	This purpose must also be achieved for any other official in this country. [[...]] However, Article 122 of the Rules of Procedure, according to which it is dealing with leaks, has a completely different function or other purpose. So let's leave the law to its purpose. The law, when the person who has had such a discussion should not have been given a second-reading passport on the home working body. The only good thing would be to reject such a law and prepare a new text. And nothing else. If we want to make the Rules of Procedure the way it was set up, I think it is also by the proposer. I am confident that we will be given a completely different approach tomorrow, or a completely different approach, which the National Assembly is expected to take in a certain law, which we consider to be a general debate, under Article 122. That is why I will not support this decision. Not because of the content, because of a product that is not acceptable to go on to the second treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-25-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We can move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 71 of us present. The vote was 38 to 24. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Therefore, the law will be allocated to the homework body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the last, i.e. the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the first consideration of the bill on offences. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on offences, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration. Since no one wants to explain their vote, we can move on to a decision. We're voting. There are 71 of us present. 54 votes against 4. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Therefore, the law will be allocated to the homework body. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 18th meeting of the National Assembly. To the representatives and representatives of the government, thank you all very much and good-bye tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
