ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Franz Čebulj, Franz Pukšič, Milan Kopushar, Bogdan Barovič, Jelko Kacin, Cveta Zalokar Orazem, Leopold Kremjar, Alojz Peterle, Aurelio Juri for the afternoon part of the session, Sašo Peče, Ivan Kebrič, Yuri Malovrev, Jože Ašič for the morning part of the session, Alexander Merlo for the start of the session, Janez Drobnic for the morning part of the session and Franci Rokavec. Since we'll be able to determine the presence in the hall, I'd like your attention. Please insert the cards. We're picking up the presence in the hall, so please press the "quorum" button. We're detecting a presence. The first determination of attendance was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention again. Next time, we'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. There are 47 of us present, the National Assembly is adjourned and may decide. We have also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting, which I very much welcome. Today's follow-up to the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the suspension of the 9th item of the agenda, this is the draft Water Act. Then the assembly will move on to the 5th item, this is a proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers, since the Finance Committee of the 10th item, which has been announced, is still under consideration. So we're going to move on to 9. Dot of the Day - Another defense of the Water Act. We are on the 36th page of the amendment review, namely, we need to vote on the second amendment by Article 194, and the amendment is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are voting on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 194. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 36 votes against one. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. May I have your attention, please? Second, let us vote on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. 41 votes against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 201 and on the two amendments. Under 1 is the amendment of the Joint List Group, under order number 2 of the Government's amendment. I'm opening a debate. Minister, Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. The first of the two amendments is the amendment of the Joint List Group. It proposes what I discussed twice yesterday on compensation in the event of a change in the water rights regime. Let me say that in this case there are transitional provisions. Under the regime of this law, according to the current regime, certain water licences will have to be converted into concessions and certain concessions into water licences, because the system is now slightly different. It is envisaged that if someone were to suffer a change, this change shall be accounted for either by extending the period for which it is entitled to water or by reducing the payment obligation it has for the exercise of this water right. In addition to what is already envisaged, the Joint List Group proposes compensation under the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act. But I have to say, it's also a bit embarrassingly written. While the Administrative Procedure Act provides for such compensation in the event of the annulment of decisions for reasons of higher public interest, it is provided for under normal rules. There is no specific compensation procedure. So this amendment is also technically very embarrassingly written. Besides, philosophy is not what we would support. I therefore propose that you do not support this first amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! There are 56 of us present. The vote was 29 to 25. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 202 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the Joint List Group and under 2nd Amendment of the Government. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I think there are things that are important, after all, from the point of view of a system, perhaps too easily past us. This amendment, the amendment of the Joint List Group to Article 202, also contains this philosophy once again. Not only does you reduce the payment to someone who may have reduced the volume of water rights, but this amendment also foresees that you will give him further compensation from the state budget. It comes from philosophy that water is private property. Water is not private property, it is naturally good, of course public good and no one has the right to own it. This amendment assumes it's private property. With the amendment you have confirmed before, which I have opposed on behalf of the government, although you have now introduced this philosophy into the law in one article, I propose that you do not do so in 202. That's why I object to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Well, it is partly true, as Mr Minister explained, but the fact is that in paragraph 5 the government can lower the concession fee. So it's not necessary. He can make a decision, he can't make a decision. I think such a dictatorship is very questionable for marriage. It should be made clear whether or not it decreases. However, the "may" dictatorship is in fact completely undefined and this is one of the solutions that is not only in this article, but also in this law there are quite a few things that we have tried to improve on the committee. The amendment of the Consolidated List also speaks in this direction, to really try to clarify and clarify both the obligations of the State and the obligations of the concessionaire. If we had read the whole law, we would have come to this conclusion many times to grant a concession to someone, but we could have taken it away from him at some point, and therefore, the question is, can we possibly get anything after this law, when you take it away from him, this concessionaire gets it? Solutions that some investment in an object, a device that can carry out this concession, a state simply, I will say, confiscate this owner, is one of the harshest ways to intervene in this way of thinking what rights the concessionaire has and what rights the candidate has. However, with regard to water ownership alone, I would like to point out that this law removes the provision of a bill on environmental protection which speaks of water as state-owned. This law also interferes with this roofing law and actually becomes water without the owner. So the country no longer owns this water. Therefore, I also wonder if there is no known waterowner, who can then charge any compensation for the exploitation of something that is not owned by anyone. Thus, this solution is quite incomparable in this law. The purpose of this second reading was to point out, above all, such inconsistencies as the words "may" and similar, that by the third reading we are indeed trying to prepare concrete solutions that will enable concessionaires to decide to invest in individual projects, the country, of course, to receive adequate compensation for the exploitation of these natural goods and that the mechanism will also be very clear if the concession is terminated. With this amendment earlier, I would say, we are very clear on these solutions and we are addressing some of the uncertainties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I am surprised by the way in which we went easily through these provisions in the previous amendment. Look, we're introducing a new standard here. All these amendments, which are signed under the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, are amendments proposed by the Community of Owners of Small Hydroelectric Power Plants on the Committee and all aspects of the law. I've already discussed on the committee this way. Here we claim damages for lost profits and so on. Due to the restrictions that the State must make in the public interest, it is necessary to cut down on the right when a person who has acquired it under law, if I am doing a bit of caricature, because of the limitation of the right it has acquired to obtain electricity in order to provide water supply in a certain settlement. No, no, no. We will now limit the right to rule in accordance with the law, but he has the right to compensation. Compensation for loss of profits during his ban. All these amendments have been discussed several times on the committee. Okay. If we have made this decision, then let us begin to make reparations for all these things. The basic purpose of the law is quite different. The advantage is water supply, the advantage is public interest. We'll be in the budget when we have to pay these damages, but I don't know where we're gonna get the money. We are here protecting the interests of a narrow group of individuals who have been given grants by the State in recent years to promote this development for the construction of small hydroelectric power plants. Today, however, they want to be compensated in a variety of ways through the legal provisions. This has nothing to do with protecting public interest. We're playing a very dangerous game here, which we'll see later. I hope that the government will prepare the amendments in the third reading so that we can correct the mistakes that I think we are now making. It is also right to protect the rights of those who have hydroelectric power plants that have certain rights on water, water rights or water management permits, but do not overdo it - we are overreacting. We're gonna give them-- we're gonna buy them a gold watch, okay?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u10	Well, if it were really the intention of this law to protect public interest, Comrade Wolf, then this concept of law would be different from the beginning. However, it introduces some irregular management with so-called public good, because all this public good, which we call "public good", is also in legal traffic, because it is allowed to have land, which is otherwise public good, also privately owned. If you really wanted to put yourself in the position you mentioned, then the concept of the law would be different. However, this law does not prevent public well-being in legal traffic, and that is, in my opinion, the fundamental sin of this law. However, for example, when someone also invests their resources, they get, of course, investors for the construction of small hydroelectric plants and similar facilities, which are provided by water resources, including grants, but they also invest their own resources and are usually very large investments that are linked to borrowing credits. Therefore, this compensation game is important to enable it in this law If someone hires a loan, it was leased on the basis of some known facts and conditions when he went into this project. If the State decides in the meantime that it is no longer interested in this measure than when the concession was granted, some very large financial obligations remain for these investors. But what we are talking about is that, above all, the relative share is determined by how much it really belongs to someone, how much it has already been, I would say, taken into account through grants and the like. This mechanism in this marriage must exist. If we are to encourage investment by foreign investors or by domestic investors, we must have these rules very clearly defined. It is not always possible to count that we will invest in the construction of some public infrastructure from the budget.The start and end of this procedure must be very clear for the investor, otherwise they will not make a decision and there will be a significantly greater burden on the budget than if you conclude that in some process you will pay compensation for something that this concessionaire was not responsible for to eat it. In my view, there will be a significantly higher burden on the budget if we try to finance everything from the budget or from public finances than if some part of the compensation is provided to someone at some stage if it is justified. We are only talking about the need to determine this share and this eligibility. We offer nothing else in these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u12	Comrade Webber, of course I wasn't talking about the concept. You know that my amendments, which were put on the committee and then discussed and reasoned by the proposer, went in this direction. I am talking about the fact that this law has decided on the non-proper status of the public good. But this is not the subject of this amendment. We've been through this before. The Constitution and the theory of some lawyers, constitutionals, in our country, who wrote that according to the constitution, as it is written, owns social property and so on, that I do not explain any function. But we solved this on the board, we solved this already in the basic concept of the law. We have decided to establish a public good, where a natural, private person can also own it. A legal or natural person. However, it can only have this property within the meaning of the law. But this is not the subject of this amendment. The amendment, as prescribed by you, in the first paragraph, states that in the event that damage is caused to the rightholder due to the adjustment of rights, compensation is due to him under the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act governing the extraordinary repeal of the provisions. I mean, it's a legal shit. It's nothing. Under the Administrative Procedure Act, which regulates the extraordinary annulment of a decision, see what this law says in such cases. He's talking about the annulment of the decisions. Here, look at the law and go through the articles where the state intervenes because of necessity, not because it seems nice to someone to bully someone, but when it is necessary and there are clear criteria when the state can reach out to this granted water right, then it also has a certain right, not compensation for lost profits, and I do not know what this association dreams about. Once again, this country has allowed them to have these power plants today, in many cases that I will not be unjust to anyone. I know a few cases where they have received grants from the state budget, it is said that the taxpayers of this power plant have paid them, and now we will pay them compensation when necessary for protection. Go to the brother of another article where it says when the country may interfere. It is a general misunderstanding of this law, at least in this context, in this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. A replica of Mr. Kelemina or a debate? It's a debate. Mr. Weber, you want a replica. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u14	Before that, I just complemented my colleague Wolf when he began to explain the public good himself, and I wanted to complement him so much that I warned him about the concept of the law itself. However, as far as I am concerned, Article 202 is concerned, I am talking about changing the water permit into a concession. And that's what this amendment is talking about. I agree that that part of the first paragraph, which speaks of the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act governing the extraordinary annulment of decisions, is one part of the text which will actually need to be omitted in the third reading. It does not really fall within the text alone or is needlessly written down. That's one part that's gonna have to be arranged. However, the fact is that, in any event, justification or ineligibleness to some compensation should also be considered in the case of a change in the water management permit to the concession. This is not a question of whether it is a public good or not a matter of public good, but it is a real change that will result from the adoption of this law. These consequences should be foreseen and allowed, of course, to be duly taken into account when the law enters into force. In addition, we continue to say that holders of a legal water permit, i.e. someone who does this activity well and who already has this permit, will be granted this water right, i.e. water management permit will be transferred to water right without a public invitation to tender. Thus, it is one of the important solutions for someone who has decided on an activity, invested in it, organised his business, but also needs to be guaranteed some legal certainty by adopting a new law, so that this uncertainty does not apply to many investors who have distributed or will obtain concessions on water resources. It's not a big change. In any event, I also agree that the concept of the law itself must give priority to general use and not to special use, and it will certainly be necessary for each article of this Act to examine in particular from this point of view that there will be no problem of having a special advantage over the general. Unfortunately, I wasn't at the debate yesterday, so I'm not informed right now about how the amendment was voted on, which specifically pointed out that general use has priority over personal use. I don't know the outcome of the vote. If I knew him, I might be able to give you a direct answer as to what kind of interests they are and what they are not about this law. The third reading will indeed need to be looked at individually and the law will be brought into such a form that it will cause as little trouble and encourage investment as possible and, of course, also make it possible to make general use of it in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in doing so, as some have now said, as if it were some manipulation and so on, I do not think that this is a serious issue and should be taken seriously and then found a suitable solution. Look, that's what I'd say. If these things are too loosely written, it can happen in practice that because of some possibility of an authority that may or may not make a decision, so the word "may" puts someone into extreme subjection, dependence, but also blackmail at the final stage. Therefore, these things must be precisely defined. I now find it difficult to assess, but I think that a lot of things in this regard must be written in a concession contract. The concession contract should then contain all obligations and all rights and so on. One of these cases can certainly be, for example, compensation in case of forfeiture of rights or any other kind. I think these things can also be part of the concession contract. Of course, it is very important that certain elements are laid down in the law, that a right is also legally defined, that it cannot then result in any abuse. Indeed, the fact is that the concession contract for each individual project is adopted in a new way and that each one is thus avoided and can be arranged differently with each other. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u17	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u18	there is no common rule or denominator for all the same. [[...]] However, if there is a provision in the law, then of course this right arises from the law. There's something else. See, if we make a provision with such great obligations as are defined here in the law, then I am also firmly convinced that the authority that decides on this right will make a substantial more informed decision, not just by giving someone some rights that may then be taken away, so that some authority will think in advance about what rights and what conditions it will lay on some public good, as it is now about the problem of the exploitation of water rights or whatever. I would also ask the representative of the government now whether it is questionable now, of course, if we write this down in law, whether this will also apply back to all those who already have certain rights. [[...]] I think that even such things have already happened, and I have read some of these documents, so I wonder if there are cases where some of the rights have already been withdrawn, which have been given on the basis of this, and whether, on this basis, claims by beneficiaries against the State could now arise for possible recovery of some of the damage caused. If this were to be accepted as an additional guarantee for the right of recovery of the damage caused, it could then be stated in the preceding provisions that the concessions already issued and so on are not subject to this law, but only those which will be distributed in the future, which would, of course, be based on this binding provision, as I have already said, with arguments and with sound provisions in the concession contract, make it more clear that there would be no such claims as would be adopted in the law if they were, of course. Perhaps we could have an answer to this question whether this would have already raised any requests if these matters had been accepted by me as now defined by this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u20	Mr Weber already said that the first part of this amendment - this is the one talking about the law on administrative procedure, as already mentioned by Mr Vukko - is inappropriately written and unnecessary. The second part of this amendment, which speaks of the transfer of acquired water rights to a concession without a public invitation to tender, is already regulated by law and better than is stated here. It says here to pass, but we have a law to be awarded without a public invitation to tender. There must be some kind of act in between. He can't just walk through it. You don't know when it's time to pass. Is this the adoption of a law? Sort of. But that's how it should be written. It doesn't say. The amendment is poorly written. And it's better arranged in marriage. This third part of the word "can be deleted" would not be terrible if it were accepted, but it is totally unnecessary, because the law defines the criteria when this happens, so the criteria of disproportionateity and so on. However, as regards the question of Commissioner Kelemina, let me say that this moment or in the past no water right has been taken from anyone and cannot be taken away from him. It's done by the letter of the law. Not to be heard from, but to be transformed by this 202. It doesn't have any consequences. I think that there are too many discussions about something that is not really receiving so much attention in terms of the text that we are discussing. All other words, public goods and so on, in fact, as already mentioned by Mr Vukko, do not apply to this article. I suggest you don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I think we can close the debate. I'm closing it, and we're moving on to a decision. We will first vote on the amendment under order number 1 to 202. Let's vote! There are 57 of us present. The vote was 28 to 25. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also deciding on the 202nd Article as a whole. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 203 and the amendment of the Joint List Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u22	I reiterate that this is exactly the same philosophy that we have just discussed for a long and broad time. I suggest you don't support this amendment either.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u24	That's all I'd do to complement the minister. This is the only amendment to Article 203. If we are to try to regulate the word "may" in the third reading, then it would be important that this article remains open and some uncertainties are also made if the Minister considers that they are also regulated in the third reading. But if it doesn't, it's going to be a lot harder at third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 26 votes against 28. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 28.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 39 votes against 3. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 204 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision first on the amendment. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 41 votes against 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 205 and the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the Government, under 2 amendments to the Committee, which is substantively linked to the amendment already adopted to Article 204. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. First, we decide on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Joint List Group for a new 205.a/ Article. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Look, this is the last amendment the government doesn't support. However, I would like to highlight the situation that would have taken place if it had been adopted. The amendment states that all holders of water rights that have obtained concessions in the past are adjusted by a regulation amending the Regulation to adjust the duration of the concession in accordance with Article 143 of this Act. Article 143 of this Act states that the concession shall be granted for a maximum of 50 years. I don't know how you can adjust something, the current concessions are awarded, I don't know, for 20 years, for 30 years and so on, some for 50 years, how you can adjust something for a maximum of 50 years. If the 143rd article said that each concession was granted for exactly 50 years, then I would understand this amendment. But otherwise, I don't know how to take him out. But it would be very embarrassing if you were accepted. You could say, but, well, then what if it's adopted, because it's impossible anyway. It is embarrassing, however, because the government is in charge of adopting a regulation that I do not know what it would look like, within six months of its entry into force. It would be very embarrassing because, of course, we wouldn't know how to write and accept it. I therefore suggest that you do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 55 of us present. The vote was 22 to 28. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the amendment for the new Article has not been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 208 and the two amendments to which the Government is proposing to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision first on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Nobody's free.]] I find that the article has been fully adopted. The amendment for the new 208.a Article has already been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment to the new 10a section. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. We're voting. There are 54 votes in favour, 44 against 6. [[..]] [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the new 10th Division and thus the amendment and the new 10th Division have been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 210 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and thus the title of Sections Strike out what does and Article 210. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 213 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. It's 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and this amends the article. We are moving on to a debate and decision on 216th Article and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 219 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the Government's amendment to the new Annex 1. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Sonja Areh Lavrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to ask the Minister why the River of Thinking has fallen off this list of waters of the First Order. This river is very important. It also comes from the southern part of Pohorje and runs for a long time after the unspoiled nature and also has a name on its river. I would like to ask for an answer on what criteria this has been assessed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I don't know. The list has been prepared by our professional management services, given the importance of quantity and flow. But maybe something's come up, I won't say no. We can check this thing until the third hearing. I can't give an exact answer right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment for the new Annex 1. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Annex 1 have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I am also putting to the debate the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does anyone wish to discuss the proposed decision? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and representatives of the secretariat very much for their cooperation. And we're going, as predicted, to 5. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers - a quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representative and representatives of the government among us. Would you like a word from the government? Dr. Vida Čadonic Špelič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u32	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon, good afternoon. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has drawn up a new system law, which is a law on mineral fertilisers, which replaces the previous law of 1973. Given that the law is from the so-called European package, we have also proposed that it be dealt with quickly. While the law is of a technical nature, it is both cross-cutting and professionally coordinated. As you have seen, it is a shorter law and will implement, together with three sub-legislative acts, four European directives allowing the free movement of goods, in this case fertilisers, between the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia. We propose to the National Assembly that the law, together with some amendments prepared by the Agriculture Committee, be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the Board, mag. Janez Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! As it is said, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has considered a proposal for a law proposed by the Government following a rapid procedure. The Committee also supported the proposal to deal with the law quickly. This is a law from a package of laws that needs to be adapted to European legislation. The Committee has adopted some of its amendments, I think it is five or six amendments, and proposes that the National Assembly adopt the law by means of a rapid procedure, together with amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want a word? Since no, I am concluding the general debate and moving on to a second reading, this is for discussion and decision on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendment and the articles, it shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let us vote on this motion for a decision. Let's vote! The first vote on the proposal was not successful. I very much ask fellow Members and fellow Members to join us because we will vote on the amendments tabled in the second reading of the bill. Second, let us vote on the proposal for a decision. Let's vote! Since the second vote was not successful, I give a 10-minute recess according to the Rules of Procedure. At 11.08, we will vote on the proposal for a decision for a third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u36	Your Honor! Thirdly, we will vote on the proposal for a decision to vote, in accordance with Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles, on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. Let us vote on this proposal for the third time and thus indirectly identify the presence in the Chamber. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide, but a proposal has also been adopted. Mr. Anderlich, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u37	I have a procedural proposal or an initiative, or whatever you want to understand. Yesterday and the data, things happen so that people can't understand them. During the meeting, various meetings of our colleagues are convened and several other colleagues are taken out. I could, believe me, do those things that I have to do during the recess or before the sitting or after the sitting, even during the sitting. But it's not working. It is the dignity of this council. It's about working effectively. I propose to the President of the National Assembly, because I assume he has a meeting now, too, to agree that we will not do these things. Or we can agree on when someone will do this, so that we know that the rest of us are sitting in the hall and we will provide the conclusion. We were inconclusive today, and yesterday at least ten times. On this account, because Mr. Ferry Horvat has taken six people to some kind of conversation. That's not going to work. I beg you, if you don't, ask the President to convene a college and agree on what hours we're gonna work and we're gonna be here those hours and the rest of the hours doing other things. It's not hard for me to sit here, even though I'd have something else to do, because it's my duty and my need.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. As Vice-President of the National Assembly, I can even agree with you, but I also have my own powers under the Rules of Procedure, which say that I am doing my job in agreement with the President of the National Assembly. And this is me having a session right now. Please, let's talk about these things where this place is. We are therefore continuing the meeting and moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 10.6.2002. You also received a proposal from the amendment dated 12.6., which is proposed by Mr Kramberger. We are therefore moving on to debate and decision-making on individual articles and amendments. I shall put Article 14 and the two amendments to this Article into discussion and decision. Under 1 and under 2 are amendments whose proposer is the committee. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, let's vote on amendment number one. There are 61 of us present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Since the amendment under order number 2 is linked to the amendment to Article 22 as well as to Article 23, which is not in the review and which is proposed by Mr Kramberger, we will vote on these two related amendments. I am therefore putting to the debate two amendments, which are related to the amendment already adopted, namely the amendment to Article 22, of which the Committee is proposing. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 of us present. 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. I am also putting to the debate an amendment to article 23, of which Mr Kramberger is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 23 as a whole. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We're going back to the front page of the amendment review. I am putting Article 18 and the two amendments to the debate and to the decision-making process. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment of which the committee is the proposer. Under order number 2, Mr Sok's amendment is supported by his mother's working body. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision first on the amendment to the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 55 of us present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 19 and the amendment of the Committee to delete the article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 20 and the amendment of the Committee on the Elimination of this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 58 of us present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote! There are 56 of us present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We're moving on to the title debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 14, 18, 19, 20, 22 and 23 were adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[No, no, ……]] I ask the representative of the secretariat whether the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law may be violated? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the government very much for their cooperation, and also thank the representative of the secretariat very much. We're moving to six. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE FISHERIES OF THE SEA, STRAIGHT PROCEDURE. I welcome the representatives of the government among us. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm asking the government representative if he wants a word. Mr Jože Strle, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u39	Dear Members and Members! The Law on Maritime Fisheries is part of the laws to be adopted in the process of taking over the acquis of the European Union. The law will, among other things, allow the Republic of Slovenia to enter into a global system for the determination of the TAC and the acquisition of the national fishing fleet, the active management of fishing resources at sea in order to ensure sustainable management of fishing resources, in particular by setting technical conditions for the conservation of fishing resources, the introduction of records and databases, in particular for the purposes of monitoring catches and fishing effort, as a basis for fisheries management and for the purposes of international reporting and, of course, the implementation of mechanisms for regulating the traffic in fish, fishery products and products. The law itself had two public presentations where we tried to take into account all those comments made by fishermen and local interests that were not either contrary to European legislation or contrary to existing legislation. I propose that the law be adopted quickly because it is in the process of taking over the acquis of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Mag. Janez Kramberger, chairman of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u41	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! As we say, it is a law that must also be adopted by making our legislation similar to European legislation. This is a system law that has been dealt with by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Representatives of the agri-agricultural chamber were also present, as was the case with all the laws dealt with by the committee. The Committee considered the law, adopted the proposal to deal with it quickly and also adopted certain amendments which are under review, and finally adopted the proposal to propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the law in a swift manner, together with amendments which the Committee supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u43	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members and Members! On behalf of our Group of Members, I would like to point out that this is a new system of regulation in the field of marine fisheries and that the adoption of such laws would require a thorough and in-depth discussion. Unfortunately, our proposal to adopt this law on a regular basis was rejected. In order not to deal with the law quickly, the secretariat also considered it, but unfortunately, on the Committee on Agriculture, the Members of the Coalition majority did not take this proposal into account either. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the dilemmas and questions that arise in our Group of Members on this issue, because we believe that the law, as it was written, represents favouritism and monopolization of certain fishing operators, in the first place of course our largest company in this area, Delamarisa. I would like to draw attention to some of the inconsistencies of this law. The principle of representativeness, which is enshrined in this law, is highly irregular. We believe that the law on representativeness should lay down in Article 54 what is considered a condition of representativeness. If this is not written, then the article and the law are empty, for the article, as it is written, gives the minister the opportunity to determine these criteria according to his own judgment. As far as fishing licences are concerned, it is stipulated in the law, as it is now written, that where monitoring shows that fish in the sea is too small, technical requirements should be increased for those engaged in this activity. We don't think such a solution is right. The solution in the law should be that in such situations, if fishing is insufficient, quotas should be reduced for all who have permits.Not by increasing technical requirements, as only certain large fishing operators are favoured through the law, but in this way they are removed by the smaller ones. The law also does not provide an adequate solution for non-execution under the operational programme of certain tasks financed by the State. This law even states that if someone fails to carry out these tasks, 75% of the fixed aid funds in the first year and even then in the second year 50% shall be eligible. Thus, such a solution seems contrary to the principles of some healthy economic competition. This law, like most agricultural laws, also introduces a new administration. In addition to ongoing inspections in the field of fisheries, a new inspection service is being introduced, which is an inspection for the quality control of agricultural crops and foodstuffs. So it is a re-enlargement of the administration in this area. What I would like to draw particular attention to on behalf of New Slovenia is the provisions laid down in this law, which abolish fishing as an additional agricultural activity. Thus, according to this law, some 75 fishermen who deal with this as an additional agricultural activity will lose their jobs. This law, however, says that they will be retired from the programme or restructured in the programme, and will redirect another activity. So we wonder if such a solution is good, for we know that early in our legislation no one can retire at all, but we also wonder, of course, how someone who is ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five years of fishing could be able to divert him or her into another activity. Such a matter seems extremely controversial to us, and for these reasons, which I have listed, we also oppose the law as such if the amendments we tabled are not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, Mr Mario Gasparini has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Because I can't argue with the predecessor, but I will tell you how this law was passed. But on the basis of this, the Liberal Democracy will support this law and will also support a rapid procedure. So I must say that Mr Minister himself, as well as the members of the Ministry of Agriculture, have been to the coast at least four times and have had meetings with all fishermen, i.e. those engaged in fishing - either fish processing or fish fishing - so that such a law has been thoroughly reviewed and discussed and comments adopted and all that fishermen as such and the fishing industry have had something to say about this law. That's why I don't think it's that we're going to the first reading now, second, because this has already been thoroughly addressed on the Coast. I hope the Coast has the key to this. I can't think that, I don't know, Styria would have anything to say about sea fishing. But that's how it is. So, as it is said: Liberal democracy will support this law and also this swift procedure. Well, to shed some light on this debate about this marriage. I'm going to read a little history, and I'm going to tell you a little bit about what Slovenia said in 1991 when it adopted a resolution on maritime direction in the Republic of Slovenia. This resolution states: for the first time, to support the development of the port of Cyprus, to promote the development of the free zone, to protect public interest in port activities, to ensure the development of marinas, to promote the restructuring of coastal activities, to provide conditions for the development of freight and tourism fleets, to deliberately promote food and other goods from the sea. 2. The Republic of Slovenia has taken care of the intellectual use of the coastal area and the preservation of nature and cultural heritage - this is what it writes. 3. The Republic of Slovenia will take care of maritime legal arrangements in accordance with international rules. In doing so, I would stop - the legal regime. The Law on Maritime Fisheries, which is now in force, is old, is an old Yugoslav law. When we talk about a new law, it is not only because of the Europe that is shaping us in this - we know that - but also because of the disorganized fisheries on the coast. And when someone here interprets how they're going to lose 70 fishermen's complementary work, we have to say that that's not true, but that fishermen themselves demand that one day they arrange the fisheries organisation on the Coast. That's what this marriage is all about. The fishermen themselves demanded years ago that the maritime law of the old Yugoslavia settle here and we finally came to that conclusion. The purpose of this resolution in 1991 is to achieve the best possible quality of life at sea, better protection of the environment, coexistence of ports, industry and tourism in the coast. Today, 10 years and more from the resolution adopted - what have we actually done on the Coast? Okay, we have a port in Cyprus, but we don't have a highway and a train connection. Well, that's left open. Industrial Zones - we passed the Industrial Zones Act, but it didn't come alive. Marines have been built, then port activities are functioning, we have moved disputed ecological factories, not entirely - for example, the shipyard in Isola - arranged landscape parks: Sečovlje, Strunujan, Skopiški bay, Škocjanski bay. So, this was all arranged. The first and cultural - historical cores in cities, we also established maritime schools, the Faculty of the Sea, then we adopted the maritime code. But there's one black dot left. This is exactly the fishing law. So, in this area of fishing in the sea, nothing has been done in ten years. So fishing deserves a black dot. In ten years, we didn't want to or we didn't want to solve the problems of fishing. Only here and there did we correct the fishing law, which is now in force and is very old. The problem of fishing is very varied, wide-ranging. You are well aware that after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the sea which it has today remains. The coast is 42 kilometers long and here everything I said before is happening: from Luke Koper and so on, not to talk about tourism and other things. The second thing to be identified, not only for us, but also for Europe - read what the European Commission said last week in this area when 28,000 fishermen will have to be out of work, 8% of the fishing fleet will actually be on the coast - so there is no fish, I will simply say, and the quotas allocated in Europe will be even smaller than today. Of course, we have already reduced these quotas, for the first time because we lost the sea, secondly, because our fishermen also find that there are no more fish, and those who might come, I don't know, are heading towards Trieste; because you know, in the Gulf of Puerto Rico, shoes are being hunted almost every winter, and this year they were actually going elsewhere. But also data on tonnes, such as, say, Fish companies, indicate a 20% reduction. This is not small; you have to think that the industry is also behind, say, the fishing industry and Delamaris, which are, of course, fish processing companies, are out of work. And Izola, as the main fishing town, has already been hit on the head. In Isola, the biggest unemployment in the coast is because of Delamaris and Delmar, and it's because there's no fish because there's no catch. The fishing fleet is almost zero, I'd say we have two more boats. We have four in Isola, and I'm talking about this company Fish, which is the biggest, but they're still old, and we're going to have to sort something out here. I also find that export incentives, as far as this is concerned, are too small and the country will have to do something here. Another problem that has arisen on the coast in this regard is the price of fuel. The price was, say, 32 tolars in 1999, and excise duty was also taken into account here, and today it is 61 tolars. So, this price has gone up 100%. Well, some countries have slightly smaller countries here, and it is also known that the price of fuel is reduced, so the country is also helping this industry. The status of the fishermen, as I said before, has somehow settled. There are still some things that are not arranged, especially unpaid contributions to social and pension insurance, but I think this is ongoing and will be settled. Another problem here is the resources allocated by the state budget. We see that from year to year, even now, for 2002 and 2003, these funds are shrinking. They're shrinking mainly in active fishing, so to speak. For example, the catches of bluefish, the funds made from the state budget, are smaller, for example, for 2003 higher-a-vis last year. But they're increasing, like, for monitoring. I mean, does that make sense, I don't know. I have already made some comments on this. The next thing is these old rules that cause this irregular situation between fishermen. And they're not famous, they're not as easily bent as they're called. They're tough and they have ideas. I fear that this new law will be right on that fishermen will not immediately accept it and accept it as their own, even though they are familiar with it, so far everything is good, but it is a hack in the sub-laws that are actually implementing this law. Here we'll see how those fishermen of ours are going to wonder. I was asked if this law was actually written on the back of fishermen. I said no, this law brings positive, I hope to say, almost completely positive movements in this industry. But he also has negatives. These are all my findings. The Ministry is familiar with them. Actually, I'd like to draw your attention to these negative things. I'm going to leave the positives behind, so I'm going to vote for these things because we've already accepted them on the committee. First of all, I think there's a lot of leave in this law to the minister to settle what's not in the law. Here I see what I said earlier that fishermen are primarily waiting for you - are those who will enable work, organisation and so on. I'm expecting some trouble. Secondly, I am somewhat disturbed by this not very complicated one, but well, let it be complicated, this organisation of fishing. But I think it'll come in eventually. A similar organisation, for example, has other countries in Europe, and I do not think that this should be the case, except this year - except for these initial problems in order to have any major problems later. Inspection, but it's a little complicated here. If you think we have only one job in the law that can be inspected - not just by professional fishermen, but also by us, who are day-to-day or weekly fishermen. Then there's a little too much of that. I'm terribly afraid that someone who goes from Izola to fish to Strunjan will stop him at sea and that these inspectors will ask him three times for his license. I think it's too much. At that time, I could catch a few pounds, not anchovies, not codfish, but shrimp, or something like that. It's a little complicated because it's still being thought -- and it was down on the Coast of Speech -- to be another Coast Guard. Now, if I were to tell you, besides those in here, there's the coast guard, and there's the army, and there's the utility companies, and there's Hydro, and there's a helicopter of the army, so on the "stiff sink" that we have, the seas, I don't know how many jobs there are. Actually, there are problems here. Not to talk about boats and so on, boats and fishermen and so on. It's a little bit of a drain on this terrain, as you might say. But what we want is the situation. One of them -- I mean, one wouldn't say negative things is actually the non-fulfilment of a small-border agreement. You know the problems that occurred last week in the Gulf of Piran and the stagnation of the Commission on the River regarding Sops, and we don't really know what's going to happen. Now whether 25 fishermen will hunt on the Croatian side or 25 Croatians on our side, we don't know anything about it yet. But it is after the debate Mr Aurelio had a few days ago on TV in Cyprus - therefore, our neighbours are not down to give in, so the representatives of the municipalities also hold with fishermen who appear to protest and that this protest will also be expressed in a visible way to say so. If this happens, there will probably be some interstate, not local, problems, but also interstate problems will have meaning and will have to be here, probably what to fix. I had another wish that would probably not yet be realized, but I would like to see the Ministry responsible for fishing, that is, for forestry, for food, have a representative with us who would arrange for these services, which are now under law, but also to help fishermen, especially at the beginning, when I expect problems in terms of organisation as well as the status of fishermen, etc. But despite these criticisms and so on: as we say, we will support this law and we can get out of the coast, because the fishermen I spoke to - and these were representatives of everyone, the unions, private, afternoon or the company - are satisfied with this law and support it. The last one of mine would be when I asked if they had any further comments on it, they said, "No, let's keep it that way. Practice will show." But in any case, I'd like it if it wasn't the other way to have a representative down this year, so that fishermen would have someone at home to turn to and these problems and problems that will help sort things out in the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the debate is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. The first vote on the proposal was not successful. I invite fellow Members and fellow Members to the Chamber, as we are awaiting a decision on the amendments tabled in the second reading of the bill. There's enough of us in the hall. There are 50 of us in the hall, so I'd like your attention. Secondly, we decide on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. Since the second vote has not been successful, we will vote on the proposal at 11.58 a.m. for a third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u47	Your Honor! Thirdly, we will vote on the proposal for a decision that the National Assembly, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of its Rules of Procedure, votes together on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. This proposal is voted on for the third time. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 10.6.2002. I shall put Article 3 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 4 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 12 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Since the amendment was linked to the amendment to Article 96, we will also vote on it. The proposer shall be the committee. We vote on the amendment to Article 96. There are 52 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 96 has also been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 14 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 17 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 21 and the two amendments. The proposer shall be the committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Since we have adopted two amendments, which are also associated with the amendment on page 4 of the review, namely the amendment under Articles 1 and 2 to 99, we will also vote on these two related amendments. We therefore vote on the amendment under Article 1 to 99. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[against 1.]] I take it that the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 28 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 50 votes against no one. The vote was 50.) [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Committee's 31st and amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're still deciding on the article. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 35 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 50 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the whole article. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 53 and on the amendment proposed by Mr Aloise Sok to this article. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the colleague who has tabled the amendment, however, I would like to ask the applicant whether it would not already be advisable in the law to lay down the criteria for representativeness and what you believe about the criteria contained in this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u50	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you so much for saying that. When we prepared this proposal, we found that we cannot write this law down or write it down. The conditions for recognition of the representativeness of the fisheries producer organisation shall be amended in accordance with the European Commission Implementing Regulation. This Regulation is currently in force. 2318 in 2000 on 29 November. However, it is an implementing regulation, regulation 104 of the market order. The implementing Regulations are changing extremely rapidly. Those conditions shall be laid down by consensus of all Member States. So it is not a matter of the Minister making a spatial decision on these conditions, but of the criteria being set in Brussels. However, since the European Union Regulations are to enter into force as soon as the day following that of their publication in the Official Journal of the European Union and the conditions currently in force would be laid down in the law, this would mean that they would immediately be in non-compliance, they should go into the legislative procedure and amend the law. As proposed here, it is not in line with the current requirement, as this is the moment when the two-thirds majority of production is required to recognise representativeness. That is why we have proposed as we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 20 votes against 30. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 53 as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 40 votes against 4. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 96 as a whole, we have adopted the amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 97 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 99 and the amendments to this Article. The amendments under number 1 and 2 have already been decided, discussed and decided on the amendments under number 3 and 4; the amendment proposal is a committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 3 has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number four. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. For the first time, the vote on the article was not fully successful. May I have your attention, please? The second time we will vote on Article 99 as a whole. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 105 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 209 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that all the amended articles in the review are open, except for Article 53. I ask if qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article. Please let them do this. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. [[No, no, ……]] I ask the representative of the secretariat whether there may be a breach of mutual compliance with the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. It was 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the government very much for their cooperation, as well as the representatives of the Secretariat of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. And we're moving on to 7. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE GREEN MATERIAL PROPOSAL OF AGRICULTURAL PLANTS, FRUIT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia among us. Does the government want a word? Darko Simončič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u52	Madam President, honourable Members and honourable Members! I would like to present the proposed Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants, which is part of the legislation which is in the process of coordinating with the acquis of the European Union. The law will redefine the area of production, production and transport of seed material, which has been regulated by the seed and seed law so far, and the procedure for the registration of varieties governed by the law on the certification of new varieties, the authorisation and production of new varieties and the protection of varieties of agricultural and forest plants [[of 1980]] . Both applicable laws apply to agricultural and forest plants. The proposed new law will regulate only the seed material of agricultural plants and forest reproductive material will be regulated in a specific law. The proposed law regulates the compulsory registration of persons engaged in the production, preparation for the market and marketing of seed of agricultural plants. We also introduce the name "supplier". It lays down quality requirements and other conditions to be met for the marketing of seed material of agricultural plants and the way in which seed material complies with the requirements laid down. It provides for the official supervision of persons registered for production, market preparation and marketing and for the inspection of seed material on the market. It lays down the conditions and procedure for entering the variety into the variety list; it provides the basis for the authorisation of the seed certification authorities and for the appointment of test laboratories and testers in the process of entering the variety list. It shall lay down the tasks of the public service in the field of seminary and the manner in which these tasks are carried out and financed. It shall supervise the implementation of the law and lay down the tasks and powers of phytosanitary and agricultural inspectors. The proposed law does not establish new bodies. The central responsible authority for the implementation of this law is the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Plant Protection and Seeding, which is the body of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and which has already been established by the Plant Health Act. This also brings together a set of phytosanitary areas in national legislation, as combined by the acquis of the European Union. These are the areas of plant health, plant protection products, residues of these preparations on plants and the quality of seed and plant material. On the basis of the public authority of the administration, the official validation of seed materials will be carried out by the certifying authorities. In accordance with the European legal order, formal certification is an official procedure carried out by certification bodies which fulfil certain conditions, in particular with regard to independence and professional competence and technical equipment, and which at the same time fulfils the conditions for holders of public powers. The law also gives the Administration the power to appoint test laboratories to carry out laboratory and other seed tests in the process of assessing compliance with the prescribed requirements. The law introduces an additional examination of varieties for the descriptive sorting list as a public service in the field of seminary. An additional test of varieties will be carried out in economically more important types of agricultural plants, such as potatoes, wheat, maize; fruit species such as apples, peaches, olives. The results of the additional test will be published by the Management Board as a descriptive sorting list to assist producers in the planning of production directly or indirectly through the Advisory Service. The proposed law is of a technical nature and provides in particular a legal framework for the adoption of sub-legislative rules whereby Slovenia fully aligns its legislation with the European Union's legal order in this field and also introduces international procedures and methods for ensuring compliance of seed material with the prescribed law. So this would be briefly about the content of the proposed Law on Seeds of Agricultural Plants proposed by the Government for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Vice President, Mr. Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Agriculture, Forestry and Food addressed a proposal for a law on seed of agricultural plants submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a rapid procedure. The law is part of a set of laws to be adopted in the process of taking over the acquis of the European Union. The members of the Committee on the reasons for the adoption of the proposal for a law on and content did not discuss much. However, they adopted a decision saying: "The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food supports the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to deal with and adopt the law submitted on a rapid basis. On the basis of certain comments, the Committee supported the amendments of the proposer which were in the review and finally adopted the conclusion: "The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food supports the proposal for a law on seed of agricultural plants and proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to consider it and adopt it quickly together with the amendments of the Committee." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let us vote on the proposal for a decision. Let's vote! The first vote on the proposal was not successful. I think there's more than enough of us in the hall. I think we could finish this morning's work and adopt this law. So I'd like to ask you a few more attention. Second, let us vote on the proposal for a decision! Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 10.6.2002. I shall put Article 15 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! The first vote on the Article was not fully successful. I'm asking for your attention again. Second, let us vote on the whole article. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 21 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The first vote was not successful again. I'm asking for your attention again. Second, we decide on Article 21 as a whole. There's enough of us in the hall. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 22 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 35 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 66 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 79 and the three amendments. The proposer of all shall be the committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to decision-making first on amendment number one. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 votes against one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number three. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 47 votes against one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 81 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, with a note, if adopted, the amendment of the Committee under order number 2 is irrelevant. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. First, we decide on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 39 votes against 5. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. With this he became an amendment under 2 immaterial. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 84 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We have held a debate on the amendments tabled, we are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the decision on the remaining articles. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We're moving on to the title debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I find that the title of the law has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to the draft law were adopted in the second reading. All the amended articles are open. If qualified applicants want to table an amendment to this, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[No, no, ……]] I am asking the representative of the secretariat whether compliance with the provisions of the law may be violated. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I would like to thank the representatives and representatives of the Government very much for their cooperation, including the representative of the State Assembly Secretariat. And we're moving on to 8. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGAL REPRESENTATION PROCESS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr Jože Sterle, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u56	Dear Members, honourable Members! The law on forest reproductive material is an express technical law, which also has a parallel to the law that you have just adopted. The main purpose of this law, however, is to restore Slovenian forests as the only natural renewable wealth in fact with appropriate reproductive material. This law has an appropriate European paralyte, which is why I propose that you adopt it quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. President, mag. Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the law on forest reproductive material at two meetings, the first meeting of the hearing and the second session of the second reading. Representatives of the agri-Zadar Chamber agreed with the proposed law were also present. On the committee, we supported the proposal for a law to be adopted in the National Assembly following a rapid procedure. We've also received some amendments. We propose that the National Assembly adopt the law along with the proposed amendments to the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Since it does not want to, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill, which is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 10.6.2002. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The first vote on the article was not successful. Could I have your attention, please? Secondly, we vote on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 3 and the two amendments of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to decision-making first on amendment number one. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 4 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 5 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 47 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 11 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 13 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Articles 14 and 3 of the Committee's amendments to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u60	Thank you very much. It is already so sad that if time is running out, sometimes it is necessary to waste a little more time in order to stop wasting time. We have a case like this here. The Committee on Agriculture is not the only committee that has been acting this way lately, but I do find the following. It was the same in previous laws. We have the same motioner on the same date as the three amendments to the same article. The matter could be simplified in such a way as to submit one amendment to one article. Thus we should not vote three times, four times, even five times we voted on individual amendments per article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Battelli. Just to clarify. Nomotechnically, the way amendments have been tabled is corrected. The point of the proposer is, for tactical reasons too, the matter can be broken down and invested in this way. But nomotechically, of course, the amendments are properly submitted. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We're voting on amendment number two. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 3. We're voting. The vote wasn't successful. There's a lot of us in the hall. A little attention. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 15 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 21 and on the two amendments of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision first on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 49 of us present. 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 23 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the Committee's 31st and amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 40 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 43 and the Committee's three amendments to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to decision-making first on amendment number one. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under number three. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 44 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 44 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision first on the amendment. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Your Honor! If we agreed, the vote in the amendment review would have ended, extended the afternoon part of the session for so long, and extended the beginning of the afternoon session for so long. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 48 and on the three amendments to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all, the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 3. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 47 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 56 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! The first vote on the article was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall. Could I have your attention, please? Second, we decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present. 46 votes against one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 63 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. The first vote was not successful again. I'd like some more attention, please. Secondly, we vote on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 64 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 66 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 73 and the three amendments to this Article. The proposer of all shall be the committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to decision-making first on amendment number one. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 3. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We have held a debate on the amendments tabled, we are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the decision on the remaining articles. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to the draft law were adopted in the second reading. These articles are open. If qualified applicants wish to table amendments, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask the representative of the secretariat whether there may be a breach of mutual coherence. [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I would like to thank the representatives and representatives of the Government very much for their cooperation, including the representative of the secretariat. Thank you very much, honourable Members, honourable Members, we continue the afternoon work at 3 p.m. when we move on to the 11th item of the agenda. Thank you very much for your cooperation and good running.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u62	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving to 11. Period of the day - First draft of the law on the establishment of public interest for culture. I note that there are only 25 of us in the Chamber, so I call on all the leaders of the groups of Members to bring their Members and Members to the Chamber. We move on to agenda item 11, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture [[EPA-477 /III]] . I am informed that they will additionally be absent for the continuation of the 20th extraordinary meeting of 12.6.2002. Janez Drobnič for the start of the afternoon part of the session, Franc Sušnik for the afternoon part of the session, mag. Andrej Vizjak for the afternoon part of the session, Peter Levič from 4.30 p.m. onwards, Ivan Bozič for the afternoon part of the session until 4.00 p.m. and Janez Podobnik for the afternoon part of the session until 4.00 p.m. In order to start work, we will first check the presence. Could I have your attention, please? There are only 43 of us missing. I'm guessing there's more than that of us. We'll repeat the conclusion. I'm asking you again to find the "quorum" consonant. There are 52 Members and Members of Parliament present and we can continue our work. I welcome the guests, attending today's meeting, the Minister for Culture, Mrs Andrejo Richter, the Secretary of State and the Under-Secretary of State and Mrs Alenko Ogrinc of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] I give the floor to the Minister of Culture, Mrs. Andrei Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u63	Dear President! Dear Members! When I came to Parliament, the result was 1:0, if perhaps earlier culture and sport were to be associated, today could be some better success. I don't know what the result was when I left the office was 2:1 or even 3:1. I must say that sport and culture have gone together and Slovenia has always been recognizable one by one and one by one. If we conclude our participation in the World Cup today, we are opening a debate in our National Assembly on another broad area, this is about culture. I hope that we will also be able here to unify our strengths and, above all, our vision for the future. Today we're in 2002. Since many things are much clearer to us than in 1994, when the current law on the realization of public interest in culture was passed today, we believe that this is why the time has come for its full revision. This is what inner knowledge forces us, the real experience and also the shortcomings that the cultural field is alerting to, and the external development of events, from the general institutional framework that has changed significantly in Slovenia in the last year, and only labour and public financial legislation, to the coming entry into the European Union, which requires Slovenia's good cultural condition for an effective break into the new cultural environment and therefore the greatest order and organization of its own house. Therefore, the proposed legal solutions are problematic and focus on those matters that need to be resolved as soon as possible in order to be able to focus on the substance below, which is the strategic issues of cultural development in the next, for Slovenia so decisive, years. A rich and elaborate debate on the Committee on Culture, Science, Education and Sports of the National Assembly has proved this. Such debates have been followed by the Ministry of Culture since the fall of last year, when we embarked on this difficult path, which has reached the first decision point today. Let us even say that we have done everything in our power to make this path as pervasive as possible and that we can reach all those who have something to say about solutions, from unions, to municipalities, from cultural institutions, to individual experts and, of course, the cultural world, that we are not even talking about very difficult inter-sectoral government coordination. The bill seeks to raise awareness of the need for an active cultural policy at all levels. Culture is supposed to become a self-evident part of local development strategies, and the country must support them in their ambitions. Accordingly, we also clearly answer that centralisation does, but gradually and with guarantees. If Western Europe has decentralised its culture for 20 years, and today it notes that cultural space must ultimately remain comprehensive, then the cultural network created by generations of Slovenians must be considered by us as well. Some would like definitive answers to the question of what is in the interest of culture and therefore expect the law to give this answer as a permanent document. Those who have written in their cultural strategies of basic orientations ten years ago, such as creativity, accessibility, identity and pluralism, today talk about social cohesion, creative industry, cultural capital, urban culture, open society. This is why the bill states, above all, that the cultural policy strategy must be based on the historical state of affairs. At the same time, however, it leaves the door wide open for the future and does not fall into convenient definitions that do no harm to anyone, nor do they. It is necessary to accept that development is a dynamic category that requires constant vigilance and high reactive ability. Given that the Committee has adopted a position to define more clearly the public interest in culture, I also propose a re-examination of whether this is the right direction for us. The draft law defines the national cultural programme as an action document. The proposal for a national cultural programme prepared by the previous government, which is in the parliamentary process, will be our excellent starting point for the action part that is now missing and will need to be prepared on the basis of new legal solutions. Therefore, it is likely that the debate on whether or not a national cultural programme or a law was previously overstated. It is time to face even the bare facts that say that the saints in public institutions, and if they are so ideally designed, simply do not work. But if they work, their role is only formal. They confirm a work programme which they do not modify during the year and do not accept the final bill proposed. Other roles, such as supervision of the business and legality of work, are poorly handled. Moreover, they cannot help the management of the institution because they have everything the directors need, money and systemic solutions, in the hands of their founders. If they have all these powers, they must also be given this responsibility. Therefore, we cannot say yes to the unrealistic notions of the management of the institution, as there are also indications from several sides, but to normalisation. The saints should become the public conscience of the institution and the founder. The founder, however, should finally face the obligations he has towards the institution. If the program is weak, it is not the solution to give it less money, but the founder with the powers he has to regulate the situation. Special chapters in our proposal for a law are working relations. If the pillars of Slovenian culture of creativity are to be centres of excellence, then they must become open to the best. However, the accuracy is not compatible with the inviolability of employees. We need to put a clear border between ambitious cultural policy and solidarity social policy. Culturers must accept the risk they face, while other workers must point out that they must therefore be granted special rights when it comes to compensation for periods of unemployment, retirement and the award of extraordinary achievements. This is certainly an issue where the proposer needs clear support from Parliament. Nevertheless, the whole of culture's eruption is an area that needs stable funding. This year's budget rebalancing confirms that we will only be able to insist on multi-annual contracts if the state is able to conclude contracts with elements of public law, as we offer them in the draft law, because it gives the country certain privileges to withdraw from the contracts. Without this manoeuvre space, we can do more or less from the country's multiannual contractual obligations. Finally, let me express the hope that the National Assembly will achieve the highest possible degree of political consensus, because this is a question concerning all Slovenes, the whole Slovenian nation, and direct its comments to such improvements as will strengthen the intentions of the proposed law and strengthen the possibility that this law will reactivate Slovenian cultural potentials. I wanted to be very short. We are still, it seems, torn by the result of our football, so I hope that we will take the debate well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u65	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! After a long debate, the Committee has drawn up decisions that have been made in writing by all of you and have them on the bench, so I will not repeat this. I must say, two things revolved largely before the serious treatment of the law. This is the thing about chicken eggs, or the adoption of a national programme, and then the roofing law or first the roofing law and then the national programme. After a long debate, we have only come to the view that this law is the basis for the adoption of the national programme, and that is why we have proposed that the procedure for the adoption of the national programme for culture should also be initiated at the same time as the adoption of this law with a phase gap. The other thing about this dilemma, the chicken or the egg, was whether we should first adopt a law on the financing of municipalities and then a bill on culture and vice versa. Even after a long and substantial debate, the Committee has taken the view that it is better for the government to first propose to adopt a law that will guarantee culture not only forms of governance but also funding, and then to adapt the law on the financing of municipalities in such a way as to comply with this law. This dilemma has also fallen away. And if I fly for a very short while. In Opinions 18 - I ask you because they are very well thought out in order to support them - we have talked about the need to define the tasks of the National Council for Culture more clearly; the deadline in this law for the adoption of the national cultural programme should also be defined. This was one of the shortcomings of a similar law in the past when we adopted the law and not the national cultural programme after the years that have passed. Then we decided that if, of course, honourable Members and Members of Parliament were to accept - we should re-enter the law of the Cultural Chamber, so that the public concerned could also influence this policy through it. Then we talked about what the director of the office or what the board should have or whether it is okay for us to have administrative boards in cultural public institutions or not. Then we also talked about the social pay of employees in public cultural institutions, this is about specific working relationships in culture. Remember, when we discussed the Labour Relations Act, then Ambassador Maja Širc, with a group of other Members, submitted a supplement where in this general law she tried to achieve some special status for employees in public cultural institutions, but the National Assembly then rejected this, explaining that in this special law that we are dealing with today, he would try to solve this problem. In addition, we discussed the financing of public cultural programmes and cultural projects. The difference in funding between the country and local communities. Here you have one 60:40 or 60:20+20. You must've had a good time with these things. Madam Minister, she has already said these things on the committee when we have discussed these matters, that she has reached a consensus with local communities. Probably, if there's a speech, it'll be easy today, because, as she told me, a recent meeting with them will also provide you with very fresh information. Then there's something else I'd like to say. In the past, it was overlooked from Members of one previous call when they adopted a similar law that we thought that the functioning of public cultural institutions was so exemplary that they did not need any inspection or supervision. As regards the implementation of this law, it has been shown in the past that this has not been the case. Therefore, we have also called on the proposer, in one of the preliminary positions, to complement this law with the supervision of the implementation of this law. I thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u66	Thank you, too, for the report. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I've got two applications. I give the floor as the first reported representative of the United List of Social Democrats to Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, of course, we support the proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture. I think that the law in the National Assembly, as proposed by the government, can be adopted by the end of this year, so that it will enter into force at the beginning of 2003. The proposed text or thesis on the drafting of the law has been in public debate since the beginning of this year. I think that a two-day public debate on work materials was very useful for the new roofing law on culture, which was held at the Cankarjev House at the end of January, and where the proposed solutions were discussed mainly by the professional public. The proposal for a new law takes into account years of experience since the adoption of the old roof law, which, of course, has not been the best in life, which already points to the fact that we have not been able to adopt the national cultural programme as a strategic document of cultural policy in Slovenia. The law also takes into account the new situation following the adoption of the Public Finance Act and introduces a number of innovations in the role of the Councils and the administration of public institutions, labour relations, financing, decentralisation - 38 more municipal public institutions - and the delimitation of powers between the state and local communities. I think that, over the past few years, we have led a rather unfortunate policy in the area of financing public cultural institutions. I do not think that the solution to the 1998 amendment of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities was sufficiently weighed when the increase in the proportion of income to municipalities was automatically transferred to the obligation to finance inter-ethnic cultural institutions from the country back to the municipalities or to the municipalities where the offices of these institutions were established. Two years later, however, we made things more complicated by the implementation of the budget law. It was therefore no coincidence that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia annulled both decisions and stressed in particular that this area should be properly regulated within the framework of the Cultural Department. Therefore, one of the most important solutions in this law is the one that speaks of the relationship between the state and local communities, particularly in the area of institution financing. Of course, different solutions are possible here. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we advocate solutions that are proposed or indicated in the law. Here we need to listen to the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, which is very constructive - not only in this segment but also in other ways. In principle, we support the proposed solution for the Ministry of Culture to provide 60% of the funding for the 38 cultural institutions mentioned in the country, which go beyond a mere narrow local framework and 40% of the resources provided by the municipalities; in fact, the municipalities will, of course, be entitled to up to 20% of the additional funds for the appropriate use of the municipalities, which is not clearly regulated in the law. The solutions in Articles 25, 27 and 121 are too general and non-binding. This law must therefore also have a clear financial impact on the state budget. Without the clear provision of additional resources for the operation of these institutions, these provisions may also experience a rather clairvoyant fate in the Constitutional Court, as it is clear that the affected municipalities will carefully examine the legal solutions regarding the operation and financing of cultural institutions. The next important issue concerns specific provisions on the labour relations of workers in cultural institutions, and we therefore support the solutions prepared by the Gloss Union and the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia. Our secretariat also draws attention to the problem of cancelling an indefinite-term employment contract for business reasons. We also propose that the Ministry carefully examine the other comments made by the secretariat and the position of the home committee. However, following the adoption of the umbrella cultural law, it will be necessary to approach the preparation of the national cultural programme as soon as possible; the text adopted by the previous Government in its short term will need to be upgraded, or to consider the possibility that the key elements of the national cultural programme will already be included in the proposed umbrella law for the second reading. At the same time, we will soon also face a new legislative proposal on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture by 2008, worth 30 billion for five different programming sets, which we put before the Mayan holidays into the parliamentary procedure on behalf of the ruling groups Maja Širc, Janez Podobnik, Vojko Čeligoj and Samo Bevk. We have only withdrawn the more modest version of the law from the United List of Social Democrats' Group from the parliamentary procedure and have made the way for a more ambitious project, which I hope will receive the support of the government and other parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. There is no reason for the government, especially since it has recently sent the so-called 'Talk for Knowledge' into the parliamentary procedure would not positively define this proposal. Your Honor! The Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, the National Programme of Culture and the Amendment of the Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent cultural programmes of the Republic of Slovenia will, with the relevant professional and political consensus, make an important contribution to cultural policy in Slovenia in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Just Bevk. The position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members will be presented by Mr Janez Cimperman.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u69	President, thank you for your word. Madam Minister, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague, nice greeting. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we were surprised to adopt a proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture, which was sent to the Ministry of Culture in the parliamentary procedure. For eight years now, we expect the National Cultural Programme to be adopted by the National Assembly and only then by the law that we have before us. The 1994 Act required the adoption of a national cultural programme in one year. So we're eight years late. However, the normality of culture, in particular its organisation, can only be achieved on the basis of the clear objectives set out in the national cultural programme. In October 2000, the Bajuk government adopted a proposal for a national cultural programme prepared by the then Minister of Mags. Sheligo and her team of experts sent him to the National Assembly. Instead of seeking to adopt the national cultural programme as quickly as possible, the Minister of Culture sent to the National Assembly a proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture, which, after all, is very poorly prepared. We note that it is a systematic blocking of the national cultural programme or an attempt to completely eliminate the successes and efforts of the previous government. It went even so far as to change the title: instead of the 'national cultural programme' the term 'national cultural programme' is used. We believe that in order to propose a national cultural programme prepared by the mag. Sheligo, he's in the drawers forever. We believe that the ruling coalition, at least in this area of culture, should strive to avoid such a situation. Interestingly, Article 2 of the above-mentioned bill stipulates that, I quote: "When adopting legislation and legal interests that may affect the state of culture and its development, it is necessary to take into account the public interest in culture established by the national cultural programme." End of quote. At the same time, the national cultural programme in the draft law from Articles 7 to 11 is provided for only as a medium-term plan, without a deadline to be adopted. The Ministry of Culture has drawn up such an incomplete bill that the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has drawn up five pages of comments. Nor is the bill fully aligned with the social partners, as the Minister seeks to demonstrate. Only the signing of a document on the extent of coordination of certain parts of this text, rather than the full text, occurred. They also have a number of comments in the Gloss syndicate. They are amazed and outraged that, despite their warnings and suggestions, even an article has remained in the text of the law, which allows for the liberal dismissal of all employees for indefinite reasons of business, and they are arbitrarily and completely misinterpreting the business reason already as the adoption of the new programme design, which is brought into the office by every new director. The Minister of Culture presented her vision of this on the home committee: "The news in the field of labour relations is mainly in the direction that it is a matter of separating cultural policy from social policy. The mission carried out by culture not only means the profession but also the profession of its holders. This, however, represents a choice in every way. Even in terms of creativity, it cannot guarantee the inviolability of employment, whether it is public servants or other employees in culture." In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we point out that the Minister forgets the rule of law and the principle of equality before the law. Article 3 of the bill states: "In case of doubt as to whether an activity is a cultural activity, the Minister shall decide." Since the minister’s role is political, experts on culture or profession should decide on this important issue. The second problem is, of course, because the Council for Culture has only a consultative function, it can only give initiatives, opinions, professional proposals and expert commissions, and it is only proposals - it is a consultative body. There is also a legitimate fear that only some elements of the national cultural programme will be introduced into the law and that the national cultural programme will never be adopted. I reiterate that the national cultural programme must be the basis for drafting a law on the realization of public interest in culture, as the national cultural programme represents a strategic document defining the design of cultural policy and the public interest for it. It sets out the guidelines, objectives and priorities of cultural policy that will highlight Slovenian identity and identity. The national cultural programme provides for the legal, financial and organisational guidelines necessary for its implementation at national and local level. With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, it is very important to preserve Slovenia's identity. The national cultural programme would, however, reach a national consensus on fundamental strategic guidelines for the cultural development of Slovenia. Slovenian culture would have become so new. Without a national cultural programme, however, any government with a culture can manipulate, bureaucraticly regulate the details of how to organize, organise, etc. Therefore, the Socialist Party's parliamentary group proposes the following solution: the second consideration of the bill should be carried out only after the adoption of the national cultural programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Cimperman. I now give the floor to the representative of the new Slovenian Group of Members, Ani Marija Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives, Madam Minister, representatives of the government and colleagues and colleagues. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture at first reading. We are, however, committed to having a national cultural programme under consideration in the National Assembly. Given that, according to the Minister of Culture, the national cultural programme is almost ready, we expect it before the second reading of this law. Public interest in culture must be defined in the national cultural programme. On this basis, public interest in culture can be better achieved, with a more creative approach and new ideas. At the time of accession to the European Union, culture will become the distinctive content that will identify us in Europe. This is our language and our way of life, which has deep roots in the past, this is our cultural heritage. A law on the financing of municipalities should also be adopted as soon as possible, as the implementation of the law on the exercise of public interest in culture must be linked to changes to the law on the financing of municipalities. It must be clear what the state finances and what the congregation finances in the field of culture. The state and the municipality must be a stable partner in culture if we are to ensure that there is no setback in this area. To help culture, the country should introduce a stimulating tax policy favoured by sponsors and donors investing in cultural activities. The owners of the cultural heritage, according to the New Slovenia Group, are also not sufficiently stimulated to maintain it, since owners can only enforce 3% of tax relief in the maintenance of cultural heritage. A fund for emergency purchases of movable cultural heritage should also be established. These are pictures, statues, and the like. The competences and tasks of the National Council for Culture should be defined more precisely, as it is the only way to expect it to work well. The cultural chamber was established years ago, but unfortunately it didn't come to life. That's not how she did the job she was supposed to do as a chambermaid. The question is, what caused this? The Cultural Chamber must have its own programme and the Ministry of Culture should be responsible to enable it to function, because it is otherwise pointless to include it in this law. In preparing the proposal for this law for second reading, according to our Members' Group, New Slovenia, it is also necessary to take into account the comments of the Gloss syndicate. Specific provisions on working relations and rights from working relations should be examined. Article 52 of the Labour Relations Act, which refers to fixed-term employees, should be taken into account. The legal security of employees in cultural activities must be ensured. The position of an independent cultural worker, one of the pillars of ensuring public interest in culture, needs to be defined more precisely. The report on the progress of the Republic of Slovenia in joining the EU, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 6.6.2000, states, inter alia: "In the area of free movement of services, as regards cultural activities, a law on the realization of public interest in culture will need to be adopted." For all of this, our Group of Members, New Slovenia, will support the proposal of this Act, and in particular those changes that will provide more stable conditions for the realization of the public cultural interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tisovic. I give the floor to Mrs Majdi Shirca, who will present the views of the Slovenian Group of Liberal Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u73	Dear government officials! As you already know, we have had LDS Members and Members quite a few comments on the text submitted, but in a dilemma, whether or not the law is supported, we have defined as constructive additions, in short, for additional positions which the law in the second reading is intended to focus on those solutions which we now think are still controversial or inconsistent in this form. I will also start with the most engrossing problem, which, I think, is a little too much through the debate on cultural policy, namely the national cultural programme where Members and Members have proposed an option, perhaps not the singlest Members and Members of Parliament, but the possibility of incorporating the key elements of the national cultural programme into the law. Although it is reasonable to assume that the proposer has demystified the current status of the national cultural programme, which, even in today's Chamber, received additional mystification once again, by taking away some of the laxity and wealth created in the middle of the 1990s, perhaps even because of the inability to define certain strategic definitions of cultural policy at that time. And I think that the powerlessness of that time may have also prompted the current mystification of this so-called strategic document in the field of culture. Indeed, in his absence, many of the strangers they met at the time were transferred to the NKP, and cultural policy developed more or less soundly, regardless of his absence, although this absence was always an alibi for cultural life through this national cultural programme to save all the difficulties. For cultural policy has developed almost all the logical requirements which, in this law, the existing, now applicable law, we see as the need to establish public institutions, to set up criteria for the development and operation of certain areas in real terms. And certainly not in overstretches that are usually brought by national programmes, which, let's face it, are often filled with principles and desires and then quickly dispute in reality or come into conflict The new law preserves the national cultural programme or the NPK, not the NKP. More? It also spreads to local communities. So it preserves some principled order, for who will dare deny this need. In practice, however, it is possible to create even an additional handicap, as has been pointed out today. As it has already been said, it is true that it takes away some overstatement from him, but at the same time it also brings inadequacy when it brings in Article 2, or it is a condition for the adoption of certain laws, which, if not complied with, is difficult to adopt. However, given that the government had a fig in its pocket or a certain reserve, there is also evidence of a transitional provision which states that a discharge may take place in the absence of this national cultural programme. Let me recap. Our group's proposal was also to integrate the national cultural programme into this law, which is actually addressing the fundamental issues of cultural policy. The second point made in our parliamentary group, by also articulating in the positions, refers to the possible over-recognition of political power or to all those solutions that greatly enhance the role of the government or the ministry or the state. The minister says that this reorganisation is only, but not an increase in power, but we do think that it is a reduction in the participation of direct users or the most frequently told professions and perhaps even a partial withdrawal of democratic solutions, which in culture are very presented in the present life. Thus, for example, in some cases the role of the world for culture is diminishing. That too has been discussed today. And also in the explanation of the law, which is quite frank, it is even contradictory for cities, because it is contrary to solutions, such as when it speaks of matters that are not dealt with by law itself, such as the issue of taxation and so on. However, we also read in the explanation that the principle of professional decision-making must be maintained, while we see in the solutions that the expert commissions and those assistants at work and the creation of cultural policy are linked to the mandate of the minister, which means a political option. If I continue, in this option of strengthening the power of the country's role - compared to the current law - the National Council for Culture, the present, the existing Council for Culture, which is defined as an expert and consultative body, consists of prominent people in the field of culture, who are called delegates. In short, the new national council under this law is appointed by the government, which can assume an absolute advantage from one option, if we can always trust the government and its enlightened role. But there may also be traps in this. It has already been said about the cultural chamber that the law, by reasoning that it has not been brought to life, has been written down, but we believe that the interest association is in some way - that the possibility of an interest association should remain, that it should be present, because also in the future - and also with regard to the entry into European integration - the association will certainly be more current than it is now, when sometimes the tension within a narrow space is easier; for within a wider and competitive space an organization is always more necessary, after all, because we have seen these days or earlier at the game. The law also brings a number of changes or restructurings to the functioning of public institutions. In today's explanation of the text of the law, we are faced with the assumption that the saints operating in public institutions are not productive, that they are formal. Even as a member of a world, I can say that they are only formal as long as they are allowed to be formal and as long as a member is allowed to play such a role, but if he takes it responsible, he certainly does not. In short, it is certainly necessary to consider solutions for the second reading, including those that offer the possibility that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Public Institutions is the Minister or Minister, which means, under a certain option, certainly greater political control over the work programme, the employment programme, in short, over the entire strategy of a specific public institution. For the world, which we hear is not functioning well and is not in this role as it is needed, but today in public institutions it has the main power of decision-making, it becomes a fully subordinate factor in this proposal, it can advise, give opinions and so on, adopt views, but on the other hand all of its professional advice can reject, overlook, can also confirm, but suppose that it can destroy it in a second. In this sense, it seems to us that it is a political strengthening of the power, not to say, to return certain segments to the lap of the country that assumes - and I understand that they have come from the point of view that this is always trustworthy and sober. However, the organisation of public institutions would certainly need and expect solutions that would be public service - if only possible and in cases where it can - be organised so as to have as many managerial flexible bases as possible, thereby establishing a more competitive and selective atmosphere or spirit. This means that we would offer the possibility of restructuring certain institutions also in a company that is similar to economic governance - where possible. In the service, let's say I give as the most exclusive example the technical service of the Viba film studio. Even the most fundamental interventions for the next treatment will need law in those places that touch on the competence of the municipalities, on the establishment of relations and on the financing of public institutions. And certainly those, especially those who will or will be established by the congregation. The solution offered by this law implies quite mathematical logic 60:40. We were already explained. It would certainly be necessary to check in the future how the additional burden of the municipalities will be, in cases where we are not talking about the transfer of funds, and also in cases where we are deducting those 20 expected percentages that place this claim on the lie, as the state would then finance 80:20. But this is a very specific question, and we will certainly be more detailed in the second reading and in the solutions offered we can define up to what we now have in common positions. However, I must mention that it is a particularly questionable solution, which poses a considerable risk of recentralisation of public institutions, and, if I say so, part of the LDS Group's position is that, when it comes to transferring the institution's rights and obligations from the municipality to the country, and vice versa, it is also possible to consider whether the infrastructure can be transferred without refunds, in short, irrevocably. This provision can be very dangerous in such restructuring. It can even mean some kind of support, especially those facilities financed by the municipalities themselves and built by local communities, but now they could also be willing to give up with some such arrangement, of course in the hope that the country is a much larger guardian than the local community can be, which is not necessarily the case. The law also deals very deeply with that public service, which is set out in the existing network and ignores the wide potential of non-institutional forms of creation, which are also in the public interest. In our views, we have said that this interest needs to be defined more. However, we know that the so-called non-institutional creators are, compared to others, in a significantly more unequal situation, we know in particular that the labour law, and also by regulating the system of wages for cultural workers that has been saved here in the National Assembly, is well arranged; but the obvious remains that the law leaves out independent cultural workers or makes them quite at odds with the exemplaryly protected employees. And we need to know that it is a major part of the artistic potential on the market, and it is on a market that is not even stimulating and not rich. We can't just put them at the door of the Employment Office, force them and push them into s.p.E., or into craftsmanship. The section on employment relations is still open in certain places. At the sites of sanctioning infringements of competitive clauses, for example. In places that speak of termination of the employment contract and also in places that are not covered by the Labour Relations Act. That's, I think, the Ministry understands that solutions will be explored. The law abolishes the pension for deserving cultural workers, who were both in the teeth of the Slovenian space and who maintained it until this year. Now the Ministry has decided that the Slovenian space does not need to give deserved creators a special pension. Fortunately, however, it retains that opportunity for independent cultural workers to pay contributions to health, disability and pension insurance. This chapter can only be completed in those places that put more orderly, if I may say so, procedures alone or also conditions and criteria. On the issue of public funding, it is also important to find new solutions that would help the country to better control the implementation of the programmes, if I were to talk about contracts and release a whole segment of other comments. Indeed, the fact that in the case of multi-annual contracts in public institutions that are to be concluded on the basis of the objectives to be submitted by the institution or institution to the State with certain very loose criteria must take into account certain safeguards in such conclusion of contracts. For example, if these objectives are not achieved, the government or the ministry of evaluation, for example, does not mean that it also has any possibility of sanctioning or revising their proceeds. I summed up very briefly or perhaps too in detail a few views which developed in a rich and certainly very constructive debate on the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Majda Shirtz. These were the views of the groups of Members. Is there another group that wants a word? Vojko Celigoj on behalf of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much for the words, well-known representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners supports the guidance and approach of the proposed umbrella law to achieve public interest in culture. The objectives already set define the intent of the law to regulate a number of areas of decline to resolve some of the dilemmas that life has posed as a particular problem. However, guidance will be a good guide for all who will prepare a document on the national cultural programme. The proposed law is becoming a programming document in the field of culture and offers some fundamental solutions and orientation of activities in this area and wants to increase the efficiency of providing cultural goods. It also ensures the participation of professionals and users in cultural and political decisions. It also shows the clear intention that cultural competences are as close to users as possible and that many decisions, as well as responsibilities, are transferred from the centre to the local community. The law guarantees the right to a more equitable approach to public funds in the field of culture. The proposal for a law interferes with the resolution or at least restricting the financing of employees who meet the specific conditions for the status of independent creator, which is certainly a particular problem. A well-known Republic pension as a supplement to a pension also points to a situation that has solved certain problems and has a number of negative reactions in the public. However, this area only needs to be addressed in other legal provisions such as pension legislation. The parliamentary group will support the law, the amendments of the committee and the proposed decisions adopted by the home committee, which have also been adopted and added to this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Cheligoy. These were the views of the groups of Members. I conclude this part of the debate and give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have only one written application, so I limit the debates of the other Members and Members to 5 minutes. I give my word to Dr. Mihu Brajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister of Culture what he actually wants to achieve with this law. In fact, when we look at the goals that the government has drawn up in this material, or the Ministry of Culture, we see nothing special. It refers to the 1994 law, which sums up some objectives and so on, and mentions that the absence of a national cultural programme has also led to the uncertainty of the municipalities about their role in the field of culture and so on. The Bajuk government, in which I was alone, has adopted a national cultural programme. In the exposition of the Minister - and also - I did not see any clear words about what was actually wrong with this cultural programme. I think that the Members would already deserve a word on why the programme prepared by the eminent representative of Slovenian culture, Mr Sheligo, is so much better for so many eminent co-workers - in which this cultural programme is not good enough for Members to know and discuss it and eventually accept it, even with the comments of the current minister or with some upgrade. That's how a man unwittingly creates the impression that the program isn't good because it was being prepared by Sheligo. It was prepared by an eminent Slovenian cultural creator, not by bureaucrats at the cultural ministry. I would like to ask for a clear definition of the Minister for this cultural programme prepared by my colleague Sheliga to see what was so bad about this programme, because just to say that there is no national cultural programme, that this is the law and so on, that is, of course, unacceptable to me. It is also unacceptable that we are adopting a law or that we have received a law on the exercise of public interest in the process - it is strange to hear that, at least - for culture. Okay, I allow this to be in line with the new Slovenian spelling. Of course, you would expect us to follow a logical path, from general to special. First, the national programme, where we will make clear what our strategic orientations are, and then the first stone in this building and on this path is, for example, the law that, say, the government prepares and sends to Parliament. But that's not what I'm saying. My second comment concerns the practice which unfortunately characterises this government. Not entirely. It must be acknowledged that Minister Dimovski has spent quite a lot of time in dialogue with the social partners when it comes to the labour law; that Minister Bohinc has spent much less time on this social dialogue when it comes to wages; and that when it comes to culture, we are actually seeing the right mismanagement of the culture ministry, which is actually ignoring social dialogue. That's hard to understand. According to statements made by representatives of the trade union in culture, such as Glass, one would expect the Ministry of Culture to listen to comments, opinions, the views of the social partners, with much more sense of time and space, but this has obviously not been the case. I consider this to be one serious flaw - the absence of social dialogue, the absence of a democratic political culture that does not belong at this time. Since we are in the context of the first reading, I note that the tendency to concentrate power in certain structures is extremely strong. This trend is shown in at least two cases: one in the increased role of the Ministry of Culture as a central bureaucrat body, full of power, and on the other hand the director of the public institution, who is actually becoming some, could almost say, self-reliant. The formation of a mandate principle in cultural institutions is, in my opinion, confused with common sense and our culture, with our cultural tradition. If anywhere, then in the field of culture, a person expects a cultural dialogue. And if we now link this to a modern management practice in which all great companies in Europe and the world base their excellence on respect for employees, in cooperation with employees, in constant dialogue with employees, then the setting up of such formulations as we have in this law is an action in a diametrically opposite direction. This indicates a complete lack of knowledge of modern management practices, not only in general, but also in the field of culture, and puts cultural creators in some highly subordinate position. It is also unclear from this law - I myself have read this text several times - it is not clear what is in the public interest. It is not explicitly stated, so that anyone could be made clear. It is also unclear how this public interest in culture is being realized. It is not clear who is responsible for providing for those goods of public interest. There is no clear delimitation of tasks between the state level and the local community. In the opinion of our Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, I even explicitly quote: "We believe that the proposed solutions are legally and systemically controversial, because they are not based on a clear delineation of tasks between the State and the founders, so to speak in advance of certain tasks in this area" - and so on, that I do not read the whole paragraph. Thus, our secretariat has also clearly recognised the imperfections of the law in key items. We will listen again at local level to a number of reasoned comments on how the state actually takes what it is interested in and declares, under its auspices, a national monument, an interest and I do not know what else, but leave everything else to the local community, whether it is already a law on the financing of municipalities or I do not know which law will regulate it. And now we are witnessing the collapse of many well-functioning cultural organisations and societies at local level. Since it was created with such a cultural policy, such cultural conditions as we have not yet had have arisen. By the way, it's such a bad situation. Of course, there are some terminology in the past that I am not surprised about. Say, you're talking about republican recognitions. It would be good if, once in the cultural ministry, we were aware that Slovenia was a country and that it could be state pensions, pensions and so on. Well, there are still these things. Of course, there are still a number of concrete comments that I will not make now. But you know, somehow this law that I'm reading, 1994, and the purpose of this law, and what you're now proposing and referring to this law, it's like we're making a fool of ourselves. For example, point 4 of 1994 says - the 1994 law - when it speaks of the goals: 'decentralise powers and responsibilities in the field of culture'. When you read this law, it's about centralizing competence in the field of culture. So in my opinion, this law does not belong to the National Assembly. This bill belongs to the premises of the Ministry of Culture, for a good time put it aside to see what stupid things you have written, how badly it is done, and rather focus on the national programme of culture, which is well-designed, and add your views, your comments, changes and give us something that has already been done and accepted in the government to see, read and talk about and finally accept in some form. Such a law, such a law as you have now presented in this House, is a waste of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u78	Thank you, Dr. Brace. The replica to your debate has Rudolf Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Brace! It was a typical example of Homo duplex. When you were sitting as Vice-President in this place, where Comrade Pohorec is now, you were punishing Members, but don't let those things they deal with on the committees put in these places again. And to be honest, I applauded you at the time, and I really appreciated you. And because of this, if we worked hard, we would have come to the committee a little earlier, this thing with the members of your parliamentary group on the committee would have been said, done and saved us these painful answers, if we wanted to answer every single thing on the committee right now. You're right about certain things. But I think in your exposition here you've been exaggeratingly exaggerating, given what was written in the report and somewhere else. I'm sorry if I hurt you. But to me, who had to listen to all these things once with such and similar arguments, it seems to me that this is a typical part of what you said that Members should not do. But don't mind, it's just my observation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Mogue. Before you, there was Mr. Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u81	I have a replica myself. I'll probably take the floor later if I have to and somehow go against what my colleague Mogo said. But three things are in this performance that require, I'll say, not opposition, but an explanation. As we all know, the Republic - for example, like the monarchy - is a form of statehood and from this point of view I do not find the concept very problematic. It says "republic" and the constitution also states that Slovenia is a republic. So from this point of view, I think it's kind of superfluous. In such discussions as cultural debates, there is always a need for sharpness, which - I believe - even among fellow social Democrats - there is some genuine concern for culture. But here, I think there are two things I need to explain. One: to demystify this notable, publicized national cultural programme of Sheligo. The text published in the New Journal as Shelig's national cultural programme is - regardless of whether you think it is different - in three quarters or more of the papers written by the Ministry of Culture in the mandate I was in, and in the mandates earlier, there will be no misunderstanding. So I don't consider this any special merit, because it was some attempt to satisfy these requirements of the law. From that point of view, this really came about for a long time. It started with, I'll say, joint forces. There's something I need to say here that's going on as an eyewitness to someone who was later secretary. Mr Šeligo was one of the few cultural workers in the Republic of Slovenia who refused to participate in the preparation of the national cultural programme when it was to be prepared by the Council for Culture in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But that's, I'll say, the problem with the relationship between the then government, me and him. One rare! Secondly, what can be said about this - if we refer to procedures - the government led by the esteemed Mr Bayuk has not adopted the programme according to the envisaged procedure. Ergo violated what was democratically accepted as a legal procedure. From here on out, there are speculations as to why anyone was going through it when he got ahead of himself with this program. I'm aware, Mr. Sheligo, as minister, did a lot of things when he threw it into circulation. But the way he threw himself into circulation should require that this automatically fall under the following democratic procedures. I'm sorry about that. Whether what is said by the Queen of Democracy is more considered a procedure that you also give a lot, or more counts what we have to do, let's say, in another parallel law that is called, again, Dular's law, where just as the text that was at the Ministry, after some -- as was said the last time at the board's meeting -- unusual paths came into the state council and from there I am, or more count the rules. I am afraid that these are self-promotion patterns that do not contribute to solving cultural problems. The other thing about unions. It is appropriate to provide an explanation to which Shirtz’s colleague has already referred. When we were taking this [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] - just to complete this sentence of the Labour Relations Act, the unions were representative, where the Glass was also involved, of the fact that the solutions, which were in the law which had already been published in the Rapporteur, were those that were sufficient and that there was no need to make exceptions. They were attacked later. That's not fair, which is why we, as proponents, withdrew.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u82	Thank you. Now we have two more replicas. Mr Brejc was first reported, then Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to know why you gave your word to Mr. Mohet, because what he said wasn't a replica. Otherwise, Mr. Moze is not listening well. I have made it very clear that if a parliamentary group gives its position in plenary work, Members have the right to express their separate opinion or to supplement the parliamentary position. That was -- was that what I said? And that's what I did today. Nothing but that! What the honourable colleague said on behalf of the parliamentary group, I added to what I said myself when we discussed inside - not entirely - this law. No more than that. As for "homo duplex" and so on - please, Mr. Mogue, on any other occasion. With regard to Mr Školč's replica, of course, I can't say who wrote anything right now. But I'm just asking that the text that we in the then Bajuk's government were considering and it seemed appropriate to us, so we also accepted why this text did not come into the process - and we would have to tear it up here, because of me, they would have said: it sucks or I don't know what. I am disturbed by some strange practice that something that occurred in the previous reference did not go forward when it was adopted in some stage. It bothers me. I allow you to be right. I don't know. Well, look, I don't know! But I allow it to be what you say it is. And if so, it is all the more reasonable to ask the question, why not submit to the National Assembly a text that has already gone through the government procedure - nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u84	Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would only replicate Mr Mohet in the part where he mentioned that if Mr Brejc had come to the Committee on Culture, we would be deprived here today of painful answers. That's what you said. I must say that your performance has been useful because here too has shown a way of thinking how uninterested you are, that politics - it is said, a ruling policy - gives answers, here, before the plenary. In fact, I believe that some of the answers to the relevant questions raised are painful for the ruling coalition, in fact they will be painful, but that you say they would avoid the painful answers, but it is incomprehensible for me to make this public. It reminds me of what they used to say, yes, why they didn't transfer it to a socialist relationship, and there's room to talk about it, and then nothing happened to the public. I hope that these answers will not be excruciating to the public. Perhaps they will be excruciating to others, but to the public, and they will not be excruciating to us. We want answers to these questions why the national programme, which is in the process that is ready, does not go forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Jerovšek. Another replica has been reported. Rudy Mogo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. We are also discussing culturally here, and at least I do not think that we should be divided into positions and opposition on cultural issues, and I have not even noticed this when we discussed these things on the committee and discussed them as one. I'm sorry if I hurt you with that word, and I'm calling it off. However, I wanted to tell you this, Dr. Brace, if you really wanted to read this law, then this report of the committee we gave, and the tapegram of the board's meeting, could be inappropriately short in what you said. But I'm not denying you any right to do that; we call mathematics that if I ask for a triangle, it says, it has three pages, three angles, the sum of the angles 180 degrees, that such speech is insurmountable, but we can't prevent it. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Mogue. I give my word to Minister Andreja Richter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. I will probably be disappointed, Mr Brace, but if I clarify a truly national cultural programme. On 31 August 2000, my predecessor, Mr Sheligo, sent in a procedure to amend the statutory law, the same law on public interest in the field of culture, because the proposal of the national cultural programme he prepared was contrary to article 8 of the applicable law and, as such, as it is still a proposal today, I will say, contrary to existing legislation. My predecessor was well aware of this and, as was the first to begin the procedure for amending the law, and of course also then - well, a list of the national cultural programme. I must say that far from this tone of voice, as you have spoken, I can say all the best and all the best about Mr. Shelig. Just as we've given up our jobs, it's probably the example of all the governments that are in this, I'll say, our ten years of autonomy have been or have been transitions. More! All my predecessors, from 1994 on, when it entered into force and the law on public interest in culture was enacted, have participated in the Cankar home in the final debate on the roof law. And since we have finally brought together all five former ministers, with me at the helm, we have found that it has taken place in Slovenia at a time when we will be able to unite the Slovenians to the end and this national cultural programme in this year too, I will say, to make public. Public debates on the national cultural programme have continued since 1997. A lot of literature has been written, published, and last but not least, the result of this work, Mr. Sheliga, is his program. We ourselves have found in the debate that it lacks concrete starting points, objectives and, above all, an evaluation part, that is to say a coster who accurately defines the concrete four-year implementation of the national cultural programme, not to say long-term, vision of development of culture as well. And that is also what we must add and complement to this national cultural programme of Mr Sheliga. I strongly hope that one consensus in the morning on the debate when you discussed the added value law has already been reached, if you have supported the Slovenian book and not finally proposed, in any form, increased funds for this Slovenian book and reading culture or - not to say - even the part that is written and supported in the national cultural programme, the dissemination of the bookstore, I will say, networks, support for the reading culture of Slovenes. This is exactly what the national programme lacks in this programme: specifically evaluated projects and objectives, or prioritisation. I could therefore say, as I said in the introduction, that the national programme in the proposal is the basis to be complemented. And by no means do I say, I have also promised the committee that, at the time of the adoption of this umbrella law, which will give us the basis of the strategic plan of the national programme, we will prepare, complement this proposal with the content of the national cultural programme. But the second thing I have to disappoint you is what you said about union partners. Today I come from the SWIZ union, where we are also continuing the debate on, I will say, negotiations or agreement. We, I have to say, we deal with the Swiss all the time and with the Voice. We've never negotiated before. As we have been preparing in consensus this law throughout, for also social partners have been throughout the month since December, in our membership and in the narrower section. I can also say that only Article 52 is harmonised, which until the law has begun its government procedure we have not harmonised. Of this, three months have passed, and at this time, I can say, even after the written assurance and the records have been fully harmonised. If I could say that the Ministry of Culture does not work with the social partners, it is a grave, grave mistake, or I will say a sentence that absolutely does not hold back. And this, maybe the situation in culture is very good at the moment, because, look at the simple events, the programs currently taking place in Slovenia. For the first time in this budget, NGOs in all areas have been given the opportunity to run for funds, and social activity is also flourishing, as in addition to the fund for amateur cultural activities, a project invitation from the Ministry of Culture, where everyone can also, I will tell individuals, societies, legal persons to apply for these funds. So, [[...]] On the other hand, I would like to thank you for the comments that you have made, which we have already cleared up on the Committee and which will be taken into account in the further preparation of the second reading law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u90	Thank you. Dear Mr. Bajuk, I did not understand that you have a replica, so I am now giving you this opportunity, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, it's not really a replica, but it's a comment. And the comment is at Mr Školč's distinguished colleague's presentation that when I listened very carefully to him, I was really proud to find out, and I would just like to stress that, not only for all my colleagues and colleagues, one fact that I was not familiar with, is that the so-called famous national cultural programme that was completed during the previous government was actually built on the basis and taking into account everything that had already been done; but I did not know that the whole two-thirds had already been built. This was a guidance, and this is also a guidance and direction from today's opposition to support every smart thing we see in the government's operation. Sometimes we are [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] which is not too many, but this certainly holds true as a principle. [[...]] But as for Mr Shelig, whether he is or is not, when he was willing to cooperate, he is not here, he will certainly defend himself, he will come to you himself and explain to you why he was not there. According to the Minister, of course, I would just like to say that we really expect that we will be in this new composition, the version in which the national programme is currently in place, and with these additions, which you have told us that you are acting to really address it as soon as possible in this national assembly, if possible even before the second reading, as the representative of our delegation has already said. However, as far as cultural support is concerned, we have not yet decided on how the tax base will be within the VAT framework, but you can count on us to make a very strong commitment that Slovenian legislation will protect the Slovenian word and even the Slovenian image, not just the written word, and that we will recognize this, as other countries recognize, and that we will give the basis to our negotiators that they will explain to the European Union that we are great supporters of the European Union, but that such a union that will respect and cultivate our identity, our national consciousness, which we have the right to and when it is threatened, has just been threatened by such a Europe that has not accepted it or respected it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u92	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. I'll go in line, just like you signed up for replicas, if I understand you correctly. Victory of the Hellenic Tribal, then Dr. Brejc and then Joseph Školč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture is an important law and, in fact, it is high time that it came to Parliament. The cultural situation is extremely poor. And if I turn to the Ljubljana opera alone, there's a total mess that's caused by a whole series of recurring wrong moves by the ministries of culture and the result is actually terrifying. And there's nothing to suggest that anything would improve. That is why I am even more supportive of this law, which I believe will make some order in this area, even though much remains to be done. I have a few questions that bother me. Our country's national cultural programme has not yet been developed. We don't have one. We do not know what is the advantage of the national programme and what is what the Slovenian nation needs and what is what is not. Until we have done so, we will not know what to support: Will we buy Jakobice or Metelkova? I am still even more interested in buying Slovenian impressionists than in subsidising some drug addicts on Metelkova. Next, if we go to the National Council for Culture, I see that there is quite a lot of competence being given to the government here. I think we should define more strictly and more precisely: what, where, how the national cultural council works with the government, because if we leave Slovenian culture to the government just like that, we will soon lose it. I think that Mr Drnovšek has not yet been to the Slovenian opera, I doubt that he was in Slovenian drama. Maybe he was in some kind of cinematographer. If we move forward, with the expert commissions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u94	Mr. Victory, I don't know if that's the replica you signed up for. Is that a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u95	No, no, no. For the debate. I have been reported for debate and I am also debating. And I'd like to ask you to deduct those 22 seconds you took from my time. Thank you very much. The expert committees are also a chapter to be established by the Ministry of Culture, of course with the agreement of the distinguished experts in the field of labour. Reputable experts in the field of work, if I go back to the opera and ballet, are those who, in their own words, go somewhere to some politicians. Certainly not those who would care for the flourish of the Slovenian cultural institution, which was once at the European and world summit itself, but today is somewhere near the Albanian opera, perhaps even lower. When we are talking about specific provisions for the management and implementation, there is not much to be said about the directors of the institutions. This is very much left out, perhaps intentionally, so that things will be better done here and there. In the specific provisions on working relations and rights from working relationships in cultural institutions, I believe that certain articles need to be simplified and aligned with the way in which these matters are handled in Europe. This is quite a side to European standards. And if we look at how this is regulated in the cultural institutions of Europe, they have much more strict requirements and enforceable conditions, which are, of course, defined in less than here. When we go to support cultural projects, I miss the definition of what a cultural project is. We have a definition, we have a definition of support, but we have no definition of a cultural project. Except then in Article 83, when we talk about financing cultural projects, we still do not know what this cultural project is. Furthermore, the types of funding state that public funds are primarily intended to finance cultural institutions. I would also like it to be defined here that the funds are also intended to finance the work of cultural institutions, not just their existence, as one might understand. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] In short, just to conclude, I support the law. However, I think the Minister will take these comments into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u96	Thank you. Replica, in the order of Dr. Brace, and then Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I would just like to say to the Minister that I recall that we also discussed the national programme with regard to a certain disagreement with Article 8 and that some of the wording was already in place. So it's not an insurmountable obstacle. I wouldn't agree with you in the part where you say there's no vision in this cultural program. However, this is the first cultural programme that has actually taken all of this part, where Slovenians live, even outside the national borders of the Republic of Slovenia. So I think this claim was too narrow. The fact that it didn't cost the guy, it's true. But I agree with you, and that must have been done. However, you did not answer the question why you did not first come with a national cultural programme and only then with implementing acts, laws. With regard to your information on cooperation with the social partners, you said that you started talking to the union partners today. Better late than never. I'm glad it started. I hope that these discussions will take place in a manner appropriate to the cultural ministry of a democratic country. With regard to the Social Democratic Party, let me say that we have supported all forms of Slovenian culture, that we support them and that we will also tell them tomorrow morning, when the subject of VAT is on the table, and, in fact, show how we feel about these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u98	Thank you. It's Mr. School for Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u99	My colleagues who don't get upset about these things are sorry, but I'm going to say it's really annoying about the surface when we're talking about certain things. [[...]] It's two things again. Comrade Brejc said that this programme was unique after this vision of a single cultural space, of course that is not true; for the first time that it was, it is said that this was the first time that it was formulated. That's not true, it's been practiced all these years, which I realize is that culture is an important segment. And if I am not mistaken, this term of a single cultural space, where Koroška was then counted, and Furlania-Julian landscape, and other Slovenians living elsewhere, I will say, promote to the greatest extent the late academic Vidmar, with the repercussions that it then had in the documents of the then cultural community and also in the policy of supporting, say, publications in substitution, say: Draves in Celovac, ZTT in Trieste, the famous SAFTI, which then infamously ended during the time of the Demos government and so on, when these structures were marked as terribly problematic. However, it is true that not because they published books to avoid this discussion, I apologize in advance. Another matter that the Government has adopted is relevant to say about this national cultural programme. My position remains that laws are binding on every government - including the government led by Mr Bayuk - that it is not possible to go through the written rules laid down by the laws and that this is called a national cultural programme, and that what the government has done has been done beyond what the basic law has foreseen. Thus, beyond this consensus or the opinion of the cultural council, the government could not have adopted this document without it. This is what you've skipped, can know, can not know - I'm not going into it. From this point of view, I would not be happy to use the football lingo today - but from this point of view we would get the red card and the thing would end very quickly. I am further illustrating this in your words that you are reading this law, and I am also making it clear to him that excessive concentration of power in the Ministry may be under-discussed with different partners. But what you did was expose this professional public to give an opinion or participate in the NKP. The fundamental role of the world for culture under the former law was - or a key role - to prepare this document. And you skipped that. For this reason, I find it foolish to shed the crocodile's tears behind this text because you did not respect democratically adopted rules codified by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u100	Thank you. Now he's got a replica of Maria Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I wanted to respond to the comments made by Mr Trinitarian Jelinčič, because I think we should speak with greater respect about the Prime Minister here. Not everything that is wrong in this Slovenia is not his fault.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u102	Thank you. But I'd like to ask that we don't go to the premiere now and I don't know who else. Let us stick to the content of the law and to replication resulting from the very contents of the law. Dr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u103	Very short. Firstly: I did not say that the concept of the national cultural space of the Bajuk government was invented and used for the first time, but I said that it was used for the first time in the national programme, because I do not know that any cultural programme would have been made before. But of course, you were the Minister of Culture, Mr Školč, and surely you are better educated about this than I am. Next, please, don't pull my tongue, Mr. Skolcz, to say more about SAFTI. But it certainly wasn't a cultural institution. And thirdly, in the Bajuk government, we weren't in power long enough to skip anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u104	The first one is Mr. Victory Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I accept the criticism of Mrs Marika Pozsonec's esteemed colleague and, in fact, I agree with her. It is true, Mrs Pozsonec, that it is not my fault that everything that is going on in Slovenia is bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u106	Thank you for that replica, too. One more time, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u107	I tell my colleague Brejc very briefly that it was the custom until 1990 to adopt a programme every four years. And within this I hope to say - but I was not a fan of these texts, you can believe me, nor have I been involved in their writing. That was one of the key ideas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u108	I hope that we are done with the replicas and the debate. Mrs. Maria, is it a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u109	I'm so sorry I wasn't clear enough. I didn't say it was your fault, but you're saying it was Drnovšek's fault. I don't know how he gets into this cultural policy, whether he goes to the theater or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I think this is unnecessary and does not belong to this debate. Victory, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There's only one sentence I'd like to say to Mrs. Marika Pozsonec's respectable colleague. In fact, the Slovenian proverb says "such a commander, such an army".
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u112	I conclude the general debate. Would you like to discuss, Mrs. Potrata? Please, you have another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u113	Thank you, I answered earlier, thank you for your words, Mr President. The general support for the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture by the United Nations Group has already been expressed. However, I would like to comment specifically on my strong support for the first position recommended by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport in the adoption of the National Assembly, which reads as follows: "The law must examine and clarify what needs to be done in the field of culture in the public interest, how it is realized and who is obliged to care for the provision of those goods of public interest." I believe that this also applies to the treatment of cultural societies in the draft law, which I do not think is appropriate. In the applicable law on the exercise of public interest, this material was regulated in a specific chapter X entitled Society in the field of culture. Given the constitutional importance of cultural societies for Slovenian culture in general, and in particular for certain areas of cultural creation, I am thinking mainly of choir singing, contemporary dance, artistic art, as well as beauty and everything else, such attention to the social form of organisation in culture is justified. The definition of cultural society referred to in Article 55 of the current law is also very welcome. This stipulates that, I quote: "Emergencies unite in cultural societies with a view to carrying out five different activities in them: carrying out cultural activities, combining professions in specific cultural fields, carrying out activities in the fields of cultural education and education, dealing with professional issues in specific areas of culture and contributing to accessibility to cultural goods and the development of cultural activities." In Slovenia there are about 17,000 companies, different kinds. And many of these types of societies are specifically defined in sectoral laws. I'm talking about humanitarian, environmental, fire, hunting and other societies. And so far it has been in the roofing law on culture, and it concerns about about 2,000 500 cultural societies. The Law on Society-specific Definitions cannot contain such a definition, and unless sectoral legislation does so, the area will remain unspecified and, for example, anyone can be declared a cultural society and the registration authority will take this for its own knowledge. We have at least as many reasons in culture as in other areas to set appropriate criteria as already covered by Article 55 of the current law. The fact that the drafter does not wish to repeat these minimum criteria for cultural society, which must also be met as a beneficiary of public funds for culture - either at national or local level - raises doubts that there is a desire to allow unlimited arbitration on the part of the holders of cultural budgets. The second paragraph of Articles 55 and 56 and 57 refer to the acquisition of the status, and I state: 'a society acting in the public interest'. This is regulated by paragraphs 68 and 69 of the proposal for a new law. In doing so, there is hardly any noticeable but essential difference: instead of "the society", the "organisation" is referred to. This raises the issue of conflict, since the difference is not only a sign, i.e. a nominal one, since society is a status definition which means a certain way of managing and controlling. The organisation, however, is totally optional and undefined. It is also directly stated in the explanatory statement that the ratings arising from recognition - I state: 'acts in the public interest' - should be enjoyed by all those accepted by the Ministry of Culture as such. And that just confirms the suspicion I made in the previous part. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] If you'll excuse me, just let me decide. In view of the above, I believe that the drafter of the law should re-examine the reasons for deleting the chapter on cultural societies, and I am convinced that there are all the reasons for maintaining these provisions in the new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u114	Thank you. The last discusser is Dr Bernik, and then I really conclude the debate. Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I won't talk long, but this law doesn't seem right to me to be adopted. Let me mention that some definitions are rounded, I don't know how to say that, "cercuites" and they bite themselves in the tail, if I may say so. In addition, it seems to me that this law cannot be enforced at all because, as others have already said, we do not have a national programme of culture at all, and this first part is full of what will be done on the basis of this. I don't know how this is going to work, but your lawyers should know by now and suggest this thing a little more neatly. My proposal is to take this law back and review it, edit it, prepare a national cultural programme, because this work has been done a lot and then you come back. I'm sorry that we have to warn some ministries that laws are poorly prepared, and now we're going to put yours on this list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u116	Thank you for your discussion, too. This concludes the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal of the law on the realization of public interest in culture, first of all, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 42 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the positions drawn up by the parent working body and recorded in the report of the parent working body. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the vote a complicated proposal of views, as set out in the text. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members of Parliament present, with 46.5 votes against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you all for your cooperation. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the mutual recognition of trade marks for handguns and tradesmen with ANNEXes 1 and 2. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm calling on government representatives to join us. A little patience, please. Does the government want a word on the bill? I don't see any wishes. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Nobody wants a word, that's faster. Since no one wants to discuss the bill any more and since the amendments to the bill have not been tabled, I propose that the assembly, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the draft law in its entirety. That decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it, we will vote on this proposal for a decision. We are voting on the law as a whole. I'm sorry about the motion. We are too few, we will see, we will vote on the proposal for a decision to decide the law in full. So first, let us reiterate the vote on this proposal for a decision. Another time. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 44 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The proposal for a decision is adopted and we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. Again, we weren't paying attention. Secondly, I will put the bill fully to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We'll vote next time. There are 51 Members and Members of Parliament present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The bill was adopted. I'm moving on to 13. This is for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on regular air traffic. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to. So I conclude this debate. Do Members and Members want the word? (None.]] Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss the draft law and the amendments to the bill have been tabled, we will, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide that the National Assembly will vote in full on the proposal for a law. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We will vote on that. We vote, please, on the proposal for a decision. There are 53 of us present, 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 54 of us present, 50 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the French Republic on cooperation in the defence area. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] The MPs and the MPs? [[Not at all.]] I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. That's what we're gonna decide. We're voting, please. There are 55 of us present, 52 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We will now decide on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting, please. There are 53 of us present, 52 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a loan law for a European Investment Bank in the amount of EUR 20 million for the financing of the environmental recovery of mercury mines, rapid procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Would you like a representative of the government? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. The bill provides for us to rent EUR 20 million as a country with the European Investment Bank in order to speed up the remedial work in closing the uranium mine Zirovski Summit. Maybe just for a little while about history. In 1994, the government adopted a closure programme. Then things did not go as planned, and in 1998 she amended the closure program. Well, and even in 2000, it was recast. And if it were to follow the planned trend, the final closure would have taken place in 2017. So last year, we decided to speed things up. I have to say, we've had some problems with running. We replaced the Director and agreed on this loan to enable us to implement the closure by 2005. Things are going well for now. If this law is adopted, the invitation to tender has already gone out, international. And then we could sign a contract with the contractor within a month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u118	Thank you for the Minister's opening statement. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives. That proposal, submitted by the Government, was addressed by the mother labour body at its meeting on 8 May this year. And in the beginning or in the introductory debate, several key findings were made, including why, in essence, the programme had not been implemented in accordance with the established and revised programme since its adoption, or where the reasons for not providing sufficient financial resources throughout the budgets following the dynamics of the documents adopted. In view of the contested decisions taken in the past, the question was raised as to whether a solution to the law was transmitted, in particular since, on the basis of a stalemate of explanations which revealed the situation only from a financial point of view, it was not possible to determine whether the audits of the projects had been carried out and alternatively presented. Furthermore, the issue of the very importance of the mine and the necessity of closure for those ecological reasons was raised as a matter of professional interest. In the context of other issues relating to the implementation of the ratification of the inter-State agreement, however, it would be necessary for the debaters to clarify why this mine is open and from which title, who bears the costs of closure and how much they are in revalued value. The discussions followed with appropriate responses from government representatives. At the conclusion of the debate, however, most of the members of the Committee noted that, regardless of the problematic decisions in the past, at the moment it is most important to ensure the rational implementation of the project of closing the Žirovski vrh mine with the possibility of using a favourable credit. However, individual members considered that by adopting certain legislative acts, the National Assembly indirectly assumed responsibility for the project, which, on the basis of a comprehensive approach and from a broader point of view, went beyond the narrower segment that the text presented addressed. On finding that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Permanent Cessation of Uranium ore Use and the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Žirovski Summit 2000 Mine, given that the closure period would be extended to at least 2017, did not bring the planned result, it appears that it is necessary to obtain additional information in terms of determining the most appropriate solution, the more appropriate integrated execution of the project in place. In view of the fact that it is unlikely that in the next two years it will be possible to make up for what could be done in this area after a five-year period, it would be appropriate to extend that law, for example, to 2007. In particular, the proposed text is supported because additional resources and the envisaged faster recovery of the mine reduce the potential risks compared to those arising from the operation of the mine. In particular, in order to address the harmful effects of uranium due to people living in the immediate vicinity of the mine, it is essential to provide funds and to adopt legislation as soon as possible. Hereafter, on the basis of the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 1 and to the title of the law, and accordingly I propose to the honourable colleagues that, in the context of the swift procedure, we adopt the law together with the amendments of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u120	Thank you to the committee rapporteur. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. Since there is no special review of the amendments, but there are two amendments in the report of the parent working body, we will discuss articles and amendments. I shall put to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to Article 1. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and we will vote on the amendment to Article 1. Let's vote! We weren't careful enough. There's 60 of us in the hall. Secondly, we will vote on the amendment to Article 1. May I have your attention, please? Let's vote next time! I think there's been some mistakes. Can we vote again? [[Yeah.]] Second, let us vote on the amendment to Article 1. Let's vote, please! There are 46 of us present. 45 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us also vote on the whole article. Let's vote! 49 present, voted 44 against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] Article 1 is adopted. I now put to the debate Article 2. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] I conclude and put to the vote Article 2. We're voting. 51 of us present voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] Article 2 is adopted. I'm putting Article 3 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude and we will vote on Article 3. We're voting, please. 53 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] Article 3 is adopted. And now it is also giving rise to debate and decision-making on Article 4. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm concluding. We vote on Article 4. We're voting. 52 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] Article 4 is adopted. We will now discuss and vote on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? At the title of the law, we have an amendment that's in the committee's file. The title of the law is amended to read: "Proposal of a loan law to the European Investment Bank amounting to EUR 20 million to finance the ecological rehabilitation of the Urinian Mine Žirovski Vrh." Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Then we will vote on the amendment to the title of the law. We're voting. 52 Members and Members present, 47, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The title is completely changed and we are moving on to the third reading. I note that the amendments to Article 1 and the title of the law were adopted in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table amendments to this article, please do so. I don't see any candidates. Before that, I ask the secretariat whether the amendments have caused any conflict in the law. [[No, no, ……]] I ask if anyone wants to discuss the law in its entirety. [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a debate on the amendments tabled. [[...]] We are moving on to a full vote on the law. Let's vote on the whole law! There are 54 of us present. It's 51 for the vote, no one's against it. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed with this. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION AND REFORMING OF THE IMPOSED INVESTIGATION SOCIETYS, A FAST PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm asking the government representatives to join us. Dr. Bayuk, procedurally. Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of the Nova Slovenija Group and SDS have tabled several amendments, including amendments already adopted by their mother's working body. It is our desire to define the mother's working body in this regard. We are aware that tomorrow, at an early stage, the mother's working body will address other points, and we would ask that our amendments be addressed, that the mother's working body be informed of these and also identified before the debate takes place in this national assembly. It is therefore a procedural proposal that today we should not be considering defining our amendments first of all as the working body of the mother. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u122	Thank you for your discussion. Just give me a second to check it out. I'm sorry. We checked. In fact, amendments are subsequently or additionally tabled, on which we do not have the views of the parent’s working body. The committee is expected to meet tomorrow morning. I will put this procedural proposal before the assembly in a decision to put an end to the debate in order to define the parent working body until these amendments, and today we will break with this item on the agenda. That's what we're gonna decide. We are voting on this procedural proposal. There are 51 of us present, 21 votes against 27. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted. So let's go to the debate. I give the floor to another procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u123	Mr Vice President, it is likely that without government representatives this important point will not begin [[Maybe they're here already?]] I have another question that is related to the content of the law and is in fact the first case where such a decision or a different decision to be taken in the national assembly can be very much linked to the trends on the stock exchange itself. We know when the stock market works, in the morning, between 12:00 and 1300. Perhaps the President has more information; I think it would be wise to make a decision about this law or tomorrow afternoon - yes, we can't do it in the morning because it will directly affect trends on the stock exchange; those who are more familiar with this law will either say it - or if we extend it tonight. I do not believe that such a proposal will be adopted. However, it would be good if we first heard a presentation by the government representatives and then went to the views of the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u124	Another procedural proposal, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u125	That is all I wanted to suggest is that I ask that the amendments tabled be reproduced, because none of us have seen that we can at least look at the amendments before the debate and the decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u126	Thank you for that suggestion. The amendments are in reproduction, so they'll come to the table. Mr. Podobnik, was your procedural proposal - what? Can you recap, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u127	I would like to know how this agenda item will be discussed. We're not gonna finish it today. Tomorrow morning, it's not fair to continue. So we can continue tomorrow at 2 p.m. on this agenda item. Because the solutions will have a direct impact on the stock market; today pension bonuses have already increased by 7% because tomorrow's decision is expected. Whatever decision will be made tomorrow, this will directly affect decisions on the stock exchange itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u128	Thank you. I'm asking the president of the National Assembly to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Explanation, response to respectable colleague Sponik. Yesterday afternoon, the Director General of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange called and asked me to accept it today. At 11 a.m., I took him in a short meeting with the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on the Economy. The Secretary-General of the National Assembly was also present. After a brief discussion, I asked him to send a letter of formality in which he communicated his views and opinions on the adoption of this law. If I understand correctly, he believes that the adoption of the law at the time of the open market could have an impact on the situation on it. I told him, of course, that the National Assembly is an institution acting in accordance with its agenda and that, as a rule, the conduct of other institutions is not taken into account; of course, I expressed my sensitivity to this comment and suggestion and immediately his letter, which I received a few hours later, also sent to the Government with a request to give its position. I expect this letter at any moment and tomorrow, according to the government's opinion, we can also determine whether or not to act differently than we were meant to do when the agenda item comes to light, and we also decide on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u130	Steady Run, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I know that this debate - I would say - is out-of-office, but not just mine, from anyone else, and I would just like to draw attention to that. I myself respect all the warnings received by the National Assembly, I would only ask that they be fully examined, i.e. I understand that a decision may affect the conduct of the exchange. Just take a look. After a decision has been taken, our Constitution and our Rules of Procedure shall have a 7-day deadline for the State Council for a possible veto, then, if it is given, a meeting shall be convened, at which time we shall decide again. And all this time, you can or you can't, it's not my substantive evaluation, it's my behavior on the stock market. It is said that the stock exchange, perhaps, needs to adjust, not just to the national assembly. Maybe he does, but these things should be studied and I don't think we should make this decision in our mind when we should or should not have a session and make decisions about some things.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u132	Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u133	Well, I think it's an incredible precedent, which has happened since there was actually a situation here, when it is recalled that I do not know what will happen, they are meeting - the director of the stock exchange, and the president of the National Assembly of Action, the leader of a party's parliamentary group, we are not deciding on this, but this law was on the agenda of the May session. It's not a state of emergency. I do not understand, however, that this is how he sat down and raised some doubts among the Members, and I also understand Mr Podobnik and Mr Puck, and Mr Horvat, that they had some meetings. This was when we were inconclusive this morning because of these meetings - so there were only a few elements to the state of emergency - and, of course, this point, once again, I stress, was at the May session. And there is no reason, and there is no reason not to continue the meeting; unless it is necessary for the committee to be defined for amendments. I don't mind. We voted, now it will be six hours, probably or obstruction, and the committee will meet in the morning, and I know all the mechanisms, so that there is no goal achieved by voting against it. But those who voted against us were consciously voting against, even understanding what Mr Potrč here explained that he would not repeat. But all I'm asking is that this choir doesn't become some kind of puppet in the hands of anyone. Because that's actually something that shouldn't happen to the assembly. For the first time, for the first time, I spoke to college yesterday. And it'll obviously be a month's work in this national council: a letter comes in, a long list comes in, someone remembers, it's more important, it's less important, then the stock manager comes in and says, "If you adopt this law, I don't know what's going to happen." And so on. Yes, but where is the role of the National Assembly as the highest legislative body in the country that has its own rules, its constitutional role and must work through this constitution? He's adopted the agenda and has what he has on his agenda. The rest is, in my opinion, unnecessary harassment and the establishment of certain situations that do not belong in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I understand by continuing to consider this law. So let others also adapt to the national assembly. There's no more debate. He's a representative of the government. Mag. The sea. Once more procedurally, Mr. Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u135	Mr Vice-President, I would like you to put to the vote a procedural proposal so that we do not continue this item until 6 p.m. so that we can get to know the amendments that have just been tabled in the Group. I would also like to explain my proposal by explaining my first performance. You know, things aren't that simple. You will understand that I will do everything in my power to ensure that no decision of the National Assembly will interfere with his authority. But it is definitely a fact that in the life of a society where an institution is called a stock exchange, which has a significant impact on financial and other flows, and at the same time Parliament's decisions affect its flows. This is some new fact that we must accept from Members and Members of Parliament. We're not used to that. I don't have any information, no contact, no letter came to me. It was only this morning when I came to work that I first read a conscience that I took seriously. It is a journalist: "The President of the National Assembly, Borut Pahor and Ljubljana Stock Exchange Director Drasko Veselinović, will try to ensure that during the parliamentary treatment of pension vouchers no one would put in the pocket of illegally obtained profits." That's what this is about. Those of you who know the matter, you know that's what this is about. And this was Mr Veselinovic's responsible move and Mr Pahor's. But there's more to the solution. One solution is that the stock exchange will withdraw the vouchers from trading in these days. So, I would only suggest, Mr Vice-President, that in the parliamentary group we have the opportunity to examine the proposed amendments in the parliamentary group before the start of the government's presentation and not continue with this item on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u136	Now, we have to follow the rules of procedure a little bit. We are only in the stage when the government gives its position, then the mother's working body, and in the meantime the hour will be my 18th. We didn't decide to work after 6:00. That is why I have decided to go to the debate as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I give the floor to a representative of the government. I don't think we'll be able to make it to the amendments soon. Mag. Matthew More, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u137	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government, by proposing a law amending the First Pension Fund Act and reshaping the authorised investment companies, proposes to extend the two deadlines set by this law by extending the deadline for the conversion of specific investment companies. This deadline expires under the First Pension Fund Act on 13 July of this year. The Government proposes to extend the deadline until 31.12. Second, the government also proposes an extension of the period within which pension holders can exercise the right to exchange pension benefits for the policies of supplementary voluntary pension insurance. This period, also in accordance with the First Pension Fund Act, expires on 13 July of this year. The Government proposes to amend Article 28 of the First Pension Fund Act in order to extend the period until 31.12.2002. The reason for the extension of both deadlines is that authorised investment companies have been granted the right to own property that has filled the privatisation gap with a considerable delay since what was foreseen by the First Pension Fund Act. The authorised investment companies entered into agreements with the SRD on the transfer of the remaining assets on 11.12.2002 instead of 13 January 2000. Therefore, the applicant considers that it is necessary for authorised investment firms to give a longer period of time to align investment with the legal provisions and, at the same time, to allow them the appropriate time dynamics of transformation into regular equity companies or investment firms. In view of that amendment to Article 33(1) of the First Pension Fund Act, it is proposed to extend the deadline for the conversion of PIDs until 31.12.2003. For the same reason, there is also a second extension, which is the time limit for the right to exchange pension benefits for the policy of supplementary voluntary pension insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u138	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u139	When the government faced the need to amend the First Pension Fund Act, it did not support those initiatives which required that, as well as with respect to the right to exchange pension benefits for the supplementary pension policy, the limit should be abolished to 10,000 pension benefits which, in accordance with the First Pension Fund Act, could be substituted for or increased by the supplementary pension policy. In view of the amendment adopted by the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Finance and Monetary Policy, which removes the limitation of the maximum permitted amount of pension benefits that a natural person may replace for the policy of voluntary supplementary pension insurance, the Government has taken an additional position in this regard. Government representatives drew attention to the consequences that would have arisen if those amendments had been adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. That amendment could be disputed because it substantially alters the conditions for backward, but such a major change cannot be justified by a broader public interest. The number of pension vouchers issued by the shareholders of the authorised investment companies when the shares of the authorised investment companies are exchanged is fixed. Such is also the extent of the assets of the first pension fund, which means that changing the number limits or their removal for an individual cannot affect the increase in the amount of supplementary pension insurance. In the opinion of the Government, if the change could have an impact on the increase in the total amount of supplementary pension insurance, the broader public interest could have justified the removal or modification of the limit. The abolition of the restriction on the replacement of pension benefits in this context would, however, be an opportunity for an individual to provide a higher supplementary pension by additional purchases of pensions, but at the given extent of the total amount to which I have already pointed out, this could only be an increase in the pension at the expense of other individuals who would consequently obtain a smaller supplementary pension. In view of the fact that the voluntary supplementary pension policy also provides 20% of the tax relief in accordance with Article 12 of the First Pension Fund Act, such redistribution of a given amount of supplementary pension insurance in the view of the Government cannot be in the wider public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u140	Thank you, Prime Minister. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! That proposal of the Act was addressed by the parent working body at its 24th meeting on 9 May this year, and at the time of its consideration at the meeting, the Committee received an initiative for the substantively related amendments to Article 1 and for the new Article 1a, which infringes Article 28 and Article 30 of the Basic Law by a member of the Committee of Blaž Kavčič and the two proposals of the Capital Society for a new A1 and Article 1b, which provide for the amendment of Articles 15 and 31 of the Basic Law. In the discussion, the members of the Committee considered that the content guide of the applicants was, inter alia, to achieve a greater interest of citizens in the light of the legal possibilities offered on the basis of pensions and the first pension fund, as it could be seen from the available analytical data that the said response was very modest. The Committee further supported the proposal by the proposers for the consideration and adoption of the text submitted by means of a rapid procedure. He also supported the amendments for the new Article 1a and Article 1 and also proposed them for adoption by the National Assembly. At the same time, the Committee did not support the amendment proposed by the Capital Society for a new Article 1.b. I propose that the National Assembly deal with and adopt the law as soon as possible, together with the amendments of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-12-SDZ3-Izredna-20.ana.u142	Thank you, rapporteur. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The hour is so long he wants to discuss which of the parliamentary groups? [[...]] [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Potts. [[A voice from behind.]] I think it's procedural for us to end this agenda item today and continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. This would result in the completion of the 16th item of the agenda tomorrow, and then the 10th item of the agenda - amendments to the value added tax law and additions. Thank you so much for your cooperation today. I'm adjourning the session at this point.
