ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. I begin the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Delak, Rudolf Petan, Franz Pukšič, Mirko Zamernik, Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Jožef Kavtičnik, Milan Kopushar, Bojan Kontič, Pavel Rupar, Geza Juban, Dorian Maršič, Janez Podobnik, Ivan Bozič from 12.00 p.m. on, Jelko Kacin from 10.30 p.m., Roman Jakič from 11.00 p.m. to 13.00 p.m., Jožef Jerovšek for the morning work, Stana Stopar from 12.30 p.m., Igor Štemberger, Branko Kelemina for the afternoon part of the session. Please insert the cards and determine the presence in the hall. Quorum, please. 44 present. There's a little more of us in the hall. I'm detecting a presence in the hall next time, please. Well, another time. 47 Members and Members are present. It is said that we are consensual and can be decided by the assembly. Today's continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the interrupted item 1.D OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LAWAL OF THE SEA. To this end, the assembly will move on to the consideration of point 1.e - this is a proposal for a law restricting the advertising of alcoholic beverages and in order to proceed. Yesterday we interrupted this point in the presentations of the parliamentary groups and ended with them. We are now moving on to a debate between Members and Members. We have two applications in writing, Mr Aurelio Juri and Jaša Zlobec Lukič. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Have a nice day. Let me immediately say, first of all, that I am opposed to the proposed amendment, but I will take some more time than I normally do to say why, in the hope that my colleagues and colleagues, in particular the proponents of this change, will listen to me more carefully and perhaps also to someone who has listened to me, because of course the reasons are one that also rejects the issues raised by the applicant yesterday. Look, we've had a lot going on around the maritime code in the past few years. We searched and considered it long and hard, legal and other professional services of the government, the National Assembly, the interested and professional public, ministers, ministers and not least Members and Members. Never, nor did anyone, during the long-term treatment and processing of the code, besiege at the time of Article 8. It remained exactly as the government had proposed, despite fundamentally changing the situation under the former Yugoslav Maritime Code. He introduced a general or absolute ban on entering Slovenian inland waters, namely in bays and ports, foreign military and non-military ships on nuclear power or with nuclear weapons. So we're not talking about ships that are supposed to transport nuclear waste, but the dictatorship is very clear. We are therefore talking about a ban in the area of inland waters and not the entire territorial sea where the United Nations Convention on International Maritime Law provides for all ships, including nuclear-powered ships, from the right to a safe passage of normal navigation. I stress this because in public the concepts of territorial waters and inland waters have been mixed. Those of us who have read this article, this 8th Article, today, 8th article, a little more carefully - I believe that I was not the only one - we have made very clear from it, and aware of the power and influence of the nuclear forces, the courageous choice of Slovenia, that despite the interest and efforts to join NATO itself does not participate in its nuclear doctrine or allow military nuclear presence in its territory. It was assumed that such a solution was acceptable within or negotiated with the rules of association. Otherwise, it is difficult to explain that in the very course of preparation for entry, if it turns out that there could be a problem, they would introduce into the code a provision which, at least for a shade - let me be allowed this assessment - corrects the impression that Slovenia has left in its own and, I believe, even in the international public when it withdraws the signature of a multilateral, so-called, policy for a world without nuclear weapons. The withdrawal of this signature is my own assessment, allow me, as a regrettable step and also a kind of embarrassment, which, as a young sovereign democratic and, above all, an advanced state, should not be afforded, not even within the effort to join NATO and its further organisational and civilisational growth, which cannot, I repeat, weigh down to a world that will wave with the flag of peace and increasingly equip itself for war, a world that will increasingly be trapped by nuclear weapons and intimidation, a world that will elephant and build peace on balance or in the balance of terror. If so, let us again consider where we are going and what responsibility we too take. Once we have done so or withdrawn this signature, we have withdrawn from this initiative, and let us give up the only guarantee now that we will not allow nuclear weapons to enter our territory by sea. And if not by sea, I believe it's even harder on land. I'd like to remind you here of a statement recently made by the Secretary of Defense, Dr. Grizold. He made sure we didn't have that kind of weapon. I submit that the guarantee cannot be his word, even less the words of the Foreign Minister, Dr. Rupl, who points out that he will not be if the government does not allow him to enter, but rather the appropriate and legal arrangements that we now have and cannot change. It is clear that the government withdraws its consent to the proposed novel and insists on the solution it has proposed. I want to believe that she suggested it consciously and responsibly, otherwise I wouldn't support it. Does she admit, if this was not the case, that last year she made the mistake of simply writing the text of Article 8 after the current inspiration of the on-call writer, and thus admits that she does not always know what she writes in her own products? In this case, I'm gonna have to ask myself how much and where I can trust her. The guarantee that we will not have nuclear spikes and floating reactors is that we do not vote on this novel. Personally, I can hardly accept the fact that we have a nuclear power plant that will be spent in 20 years or more, some of us will be forced to find an alternative before then, and I hope that the competent ministry will also be actively working on this, because time is running out. However, I do not accept, and do not mind me, if I do not follow the time, the use of nuclear energy for military purposes, so that its objective is merely intimidation and I cannot agree to this by allowing nuclear submarines and other ships to use this power, and even nuclear weapons, to infiltrate our coves. At the same time, of course, I am joining all those movements and political forces that are equally thinking and leading activities elsewhere, beyond borders, in order to resist such visits, in Trieste or anywhere else in the immediate and distant neighbourhood. So much in response to those who say there is no effect of this ban if such ships do sail to Trieste [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u3	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u4	or if we are not seeking to denuclearise the entire or at least the northern Adriatic. [[...]] To be consistent with this, of course, let us start at home. The motion for an amendment is based on the proposal that the existing Article 8 should be contrary to our aspirations after the Republic of Slovenia's early integration into NATO and the other European links. That's what it says in the written explanation. First of all, with regard to the diction of the other European links. I do not know that the acquis communitaire or any other instrument defining the criteria for connection would provide that this prohibition should be lifted. Therefore, at least we should not involve the European Union in this. Nor is it clear as to what act is the legal basis for the proposed solution. This also reminds us of our secretariat for legislation and legal affairs. Last but not least, the recent inspection of us into this alleged flaw, as far as it was known from the media, is not special or has not warned us at all. And if it happens to say that candidates for membership have to open their seas and ports to the nuclear fleet of this organization, or that such visits should not be rejected, I ask the government, but I ask a little bit back, how did it not simply rewrite in the new code the provision of the former Yugoslav, based on which, for example, since Slovenia had not yet entered into force, we allowed last year a visit to the US nuclear submarine Nordfolk and earlier by aircraft carrier John Fitzgerald Kennedy, which thousands of people, as a colleague recalled yesterday, joyfully visited. However, I cannot believe that it was about the design and writing of such an 8th article for a mistake, or for a slip or, as I said before, for the current inspiration of an on-call reference at the Ministry of Transport, perhaps an infiltrated pacifist or anti-nuclerist, which no one - and here is the story absurd and ridiculous - from superiors in the hierarchy and in the chain of decision-making to the minister, to the government, to Parliament, there is no correction. On the question of why such a novelty, I allow myself to explain earlier that it is more than the actual need to meet the criteria then to show someone who is undoubtedly influential in this regard and who will say the main word in Prague in autumn about whether they invite us along, or not, that there is no dust in our behavior, that we are the ones in the class who never miss, who always wears slippers, who first raises his hand and, of course, serves with the right answer and who is also offered to go after cigarettes. In short, to show the most influential as being as cautious as possible, as we like to do sometimes in the face of our own dignity. And don't mind if I'm here a little bit, but the memory, you know, of the adoption of the pharmaceutical law is still alive. If we reject the proposed amendment, let me remind you that we must also look at it through the recommendations of the resolution on the maritime direction of the Republic of Slovenia, which states in point 1a that "the Republic of Slovenia will lead an economic and development policy that will also be maritime-oriented and will therefore support the development of the port of Cyprus, which, inter alia, must become an ecologically less burdened port of Central Europe, and will develop environmentally sustainable activities to this end". However, in point 2.a, the State has undertaken to limit and prohibit environmentally harmful activities and to take other measures to ensure conditions for improving the quality of the coastal sea. This is a resolution, we can really take it, we can make fun of it, but I think the directions here were very clear. The argument used by the proposed amendment in the written explanation of the novel is that, in addition to the Krško nuclear power plant, nuclear-powered vessels on our territory are also acceptable and harmless, in view of the many accidents of such vessels and the potential risk of uncontrolled discharges into the environment, if such an accident occurs, a risk which increases in proportion to the small size of the aquarium and the density of traffic in it. Let us not forget that the cove is a very shallow bay and has a lot of traffic and other activities. In this regard, I would also like to hear the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment. Last but not least, in the light of September 11th, let us also consider increasing the security of the country, and especially of Kopra - unfortunately this is one of the places where I live - if we were allowed to have nuclear-potential ships come to us. It is interesting how a party that is extremely attentive and sensitive to the nuclear safety issue of a Kreške nuclear power plant fills the government with questions about measures, including the potential threat of a terrorist attack - you know that a recent meeting of the Environment and Space Committee has also been held on this subject, and I welcome that this meeting has been convened - the issue of the safety of nuclear ships has been removed from the left hand. It is also interesting that this is done by a colleague who has protested loudly against the arrival and presence of such ships, not American ships, in remote Split. If I conclude, see, I propose that we reject the amendment of Article 8 of the Code of Sea and possibly enforce it only when we are invited to NATO when the electorate and the electorate decide to accept the invitation or to sign the Treaty of Accession. In doing so, let me say that I agree with my colleague Janša to show the referendum to call and perform as soon as possible or before and not after the powder summit. And may it be requested from the title of meeting the criteria for joining NATO if it is not already ordered to do so. If that happens then, I promise I'll be quiet right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I want to replicate my respectable colleague, Aurelius Yuri, and I wish to reciprocate him respectfully because I value him as an individual, as an MP, as a member of the parliamentary group, as well as a coalition partner. But he did say some extreme nonsense, and I'm sorry to use that term. The first issue is the reference to the statements made by the two members of the government that said there would be no nuclear weapons with us. That's right. I'd like to point out, and I'm a little embarrassed that as a man from across the coast, I explain that the American ship, even if it's in our waters, is still an American ship and all that's on it is theirs, is not ours and is not with them and is not with us. The same applies to the French ship. Mr. Jelinčič is having a good time because we were on an American aircraft and he knows exactly what these things look like. I remember his overjoyed joy and the photographs we took back then. The second question is, of course, the issue of the density of traffic and the danger of an incident involving a nuclear-powered vessel in our waters. You know, the northern Adriatic is connecting, we're talking about the northern Adriatic ports. And something can happen to us, and it has been happening for a long time that these vessels without difficulty land in Trieste and without difficulty land in the river. It's embarrassing, though, because we've already allowed floating in here, and it's not just once. When we ask ourselves about the density of traffic, the statistics clearly show how many vessels enter the bay and how many in the cove. And the density of traffic is significantly higher there. That is why I find it a little funny that citizens of Slovenia should go to Trieste to watch nuclear-powered vessels because they cannot land in our country. I think that's very double-faced. I find it counterproductive, I find it unserious, and above all, I find it unserious. Before I conclude, however, it seems most unrealistic for a member of the Italian minority to discuss this. I think that's really out of line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Yuri Replica. Then Mr. Jelinčič, also a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u8	So the most unserious thing is that colleague Kacin is involved in this matter. Secondly, about the density of traffic in the market and copier bay. There are relatively more traffic in the cove than in the Gulf of Kore, depending on the size of the bay. Let me remind you that corridors and berths for such visits in the port of marketing are also separate from other corridors and berths in the port of Kore. The argument is, you know, it's sad that if our parents are going to see ships in Trieste and not in our country, I think it's extremely unsettling because we're turning a carrier into Disneyland. I don't think that's appropriate and that this argument, despite thousands of visitors, doesn't support criticism. With regard to the presence of an American ship with us, which remains an American ship carrying its weapons aboard. At that time, an American ship entering Slovenian territory introduces nuclear weapons into Slovenian territory. It's hard to deny, of course. During the duration of the visit, such weapons are located on Slovenian territory and I claim from this title that the assurances made by Minister Grizold were, of course, so slightly removed from the vine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kacin, including rockets that take off on Cape Canaveral, I look forward to watching and enjoy when they take off, and yet I would not like to have this launch site with us. I also like aircraft carriers, including atoms, but I don't like them very much, but I don't want this thing to be with us. Just like the Russian nuclear submarines that rot in the Barents Sea and in the North Seas, I went to look at them, but, although I like them, I wouldn't want them with us. The fact is, when an atomic ship arrives in the Slovenian sea, it is here with us, regardless of the fact that it is their unit. That's even worse because we can't affect their operation, their safety and ultimately, but who knows if they're not spreading radioactivity around. Mr. Kacin, you'll say that because you can't see the radioactivity, that's why it's not. I don't think we can say that. The fact is, our piece of the sea is in the closed sea. The small pool that we have left, as far as your government has not donated to the Croats, let the little one remain as pure as it is, not contaminated with atomic bombs, with spikes, with the filth that they shake with the aircraft carrier and all. We already have problems with nuclear waste in Slovenia, and we do not need to have any more here to open the door to the track for possible new nuclear wastes, for which Americans will not ask us, but they will shake them here or will not. No one has ever been asked to respect local law, local standards. Nowhere. And they won't be with us either. If you think it makes sense that we are actually building a base for worshiping the U.S. military forces in the Kori port, this is fundamentally bad and fundamentally wrong. I think if we have a port in Cyprus, let's open it up for business. Let's open it up so that Slovenia can have something of this. Not that we're opening it up to make the biggest argument that the Slovenians will be able to go to Koper to see American atomic ships, submarines, aircraft carriers and what else I know. And once you have released them, if you will, in the Slovenian sea, it is not said that they will not use these atomic weapons at any given time. After all, you left the aircraft flying across Slovenian territory without Parliament discussing it. The government allowed the plane to fly itself in the wake of the attacks on Yugoslavia. If anything else happens, any other attack, the Americans will certainly not ask the Slovenian Parliament whether they can launch rockets from the Slovenian sea, but will do so. Of course, the Slovenian government will applaud this because it does not hope to react in any other way. However, know that at least in the Slovenian national party we are very opposed to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you. The replica has Mr. Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for the opportunity to replicate the respectable colleague of Victory Jelinčič, who is also Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, and was a member of the Committee on International Relations when he discussed the need to enable the use of Slovenian airspace for NATO's action against Yugoslavia. He has just claimed that the government has made up its own mind, which is simply not true. Just a few months before that, I think that in October, we discussed this at a closed meeting and also gave conditional consent that Slovenia participates in the military action when it comes to it. In order to avoid misunderstandings, it seems right to point out that I have not betrayed any secrets, even though the tone was closed. This has been told to our public many times. Now I'm talking about a joke. Given that nuclear reactors are so dangerous to the environment, I believe that each of us who has ever been to Krk or on a nuclear aircraft or on a nuclear submarine has received a dose of radiation. I don't know if it's necessary for each of us Members to carry here a detector that will read again and again how radioactive we are and how hot we are in this room. Maybe it's because of some strange thoughts that are now being judged here between us. But all we hear now about environmental pollution, about the stress of radioactive waste, is the shaking of nonsense, which is not honorable or proud of this national council. And if we are already as legislators, I would like to ask that we abstain from some debates. What I said about the visit to a nuclear aircraft was only an answer to Mr Jelinčič's calls, but he did what he did; he would not comment on it himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I will only allow replicas as long as they are connected to the agenda item, not when someone has made a decision. So if this is the case, Mr Jelinčič and Mr Juri, for a replica relating to the agenda item, please. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you very much. First, I have to say there were no phone calls, but they were smiling.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u15	That's allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u16	I know it's allowed, because I don't know what's bothering Mr. Kacin. But there's something else. In its ruling, the Constitutional Court found that the permit for overflights was unconstitutional, and it will not hold that the National Assembly allowed these overflights.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u17	Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u18	I'm sorry that Mr. Kacin isn't here, but he's used his stupidity qualification twice in the first and second shows, and talking about the dangers of nuclear waste and nuclear energy and so on. What's stupid and what's not will be judged by the electorate, will be judged by the public. I think we should be respectful of each other and not qualify our performances as stupid, less stupid or less smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you. And now I think we can give the floor to Mr. Yashi Evil Lukic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The maritime code of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted by the National Assembly on 23 March last year, it is said, a bad year ago. Today it is to be changed, although the international situation has not changed completely in this year as far as it is concerned. Ambassador Janez Janša, who has also recently become a specialist in Slovenian singing and transvestite, said in relation to the law, quote: "At the time of the adoption of the Code, a provision was also adopted in Article 8 of the Code, which runs counter to our aspirations for the early integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO and other European connections, since it makes it impossible to sail nuclear-powered vessels through our territorial maritime waters. In particular, this means that in the future we should not host foreign military and nuclear-powered submarines such as NATO, which may present a problem in the integration of Slovenia into NATO and in ensuring the national security of the Republic of Slovenia." End of quote. At least three places, however, the diction of colleague Janša is somewhat loose. For the first time, Janša's definition of "the earliest integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO and other European links" does not stand the test. It does not then belong to other European links, but it is, by definition, a transatlantic organisation. Secondly, colleague Janš avoids mentioning nuclear weapons on possible nuclear-powered roaming ships as the devil of the cross. Third time. What does Comrade Janš imagine under the word "during foreign nuclear-powered military submarines". Maybe a meal at [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] . My colleague Janš continues with his proposal, quote, "Nuclear energy cannot and must not be the reason for the prohibition of access to foreign vessels with this kind of propulsion of our maritime territorial waters, since we have a nuclear power plant in Krk practically in the middle of the country." End of quote. So, if we already have Krška, then according to Janša's definition in Slovenia, the doors are wide open both to nuclear ships and to nuclear weapons. Let us now consider the amendment to Article 8 proposed by colleague Janš. The third paragraph of the appointed article should be as follows: "A visit or haste in the internal sea waters of the Republic of Slovenia shall not be permitted by a foreign military ship which, by its visit, endangers the safety of the Republic of Slovenia." The point is that a nuclear warship or a warship with nuclear weapons poses a potential threat to the security of the Republic of Slovenia when it has such good intentions. Each authority shall refer to a public opinion when appropriate. But when it is not her will, she only waves her hand, and devours the prayer of the ignorant people. One Slovenian agency conducted a survey on a representative sample last April. 88.5% of respondents disagreed with the presence of nuclear weapons in Slovenian territory. Of course I also belong to the Slovenian sea. I am sure that a similar survey would show similar results today. In addition, we are faced with a far-reaching strategic change in US military doctrine. On 19 May 2000, a new NATO military doctrine officially entered into force allowing members to use the threat of the first nuclear attack. This doctrine did not grow within European connections, but in the Pentagon. Of course, the organizations of the United Nations did not ask for an opinion. This means that NATO no longer works as a community of members, but as an American military-political mechanism. Slovenia will most likely receive an invitation to membership in NATO at the end of this year in Prague. Before that, our country will organise a referendum. Nobody's objecting to this at this point in the public eye. It is likely that Slovenian voters will opt for membership in NATO. Personally, with regard to Slovenia's accession to NATO, I am quite indifferent. However, I cannot understand why, after a bad year, we should radically change the maritime code. Indeed, with Slovenia's membership in NATO, the code will have to be amended sooner or later. But I don't see any reason to change before any of us do. History teaches us that kneeling in politics is not particularly effective. If you offer yourself in advance, it will happen very quickly that no one will ever ask you for your opinion again, but he will decide for himself what your benefits are. If Slovenia is invited to NATO at the end of the year, the National Assembly will certainly have to amend or amend the maritime code sooner or later, but we are in no hurry to do so at this time. Being a politically, economically and militarily small country does not mean that we have to keep our heads down at all times, especially if none of us insists. As wrote by a Slovenian writer in the 19th century, who does not respect himself, the basis is the foreigner's fifth. That is why I will not support amendments to the maritime law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you. In order to be commercially correct, Mr Zląb, it is necessary to know that this bill has been signed by a number of Members and you cannot just ignore them afterwards. This is a proposal from a group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u22	Excuse me, Janša is a consortium.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u23	First signed, so it'll be clear. Replica, Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u24	I would not even comment on this substantive thing that Mr Zląbec said or what Mr Juri said before. This debate is more similar to that of the Montenegrin Tribal Assembly at the beginning of the previous century, when there was a war between Russia and Japan and they were discussing whether they would have declared war on Japan or not. The debate lasted a long time, and in the meantime the war ended. However, I would say to Mr Evil Man that his statement, if he said that the power was arrogant, might even hold, but I would remind him that in this case, when we discuss this law, we are in opposition and he is in power. Mr. Zląbec, you represent here a government coalition that has scissors and linen in its hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you. We have now concluded the debates of Members who have applied in writing. I limit the debate of other Members who have not applied in writing to 5 minutes. But here are the applications, Mr. Barovich, Mr. Gasparini, Mr. Battelli A, excuse me! Then Mr. Battelli first because he has a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was shocked earlier, given Mr. Kacin's statement. However, something similar was done by Mr. Janša when he spoke of what he would say when he spoke abusively about the work of the Montenegrin congregation once in history. Both do not judge at the level that the National Assembly is supposed to hold and do not fall within the context of the regime on which this country is founded. So what was said by Mr Kacin is in total contradiction with our constitutional arrangements and shows an understanding of the foundations of this country, which is probably distorted. I feel equally unworthy that other nations and other parliaments are being discussed in Parliament at any time in history. It is more beneficial and patriotic to look at yourself and be critical of yourself and try to improve yourself rather than despise others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There are political interests in this country, there are national security interests and there are national interests that we talk about very much. If the political interests of this country's work are also integration into NATO, we will talk about this when we receive an invitation when the Slovenians decide, then yes or no. If there are national security interests, and since we have already heard some qualifications, how pleased we were at the critical moments when American ships came to us as a sign of aid and support for Slovenia's independence, fine. This is exactly what I will stress: there are other types of military ships besides nuclear vessels, which will be possible, if the Slovenian nation so decides, to sail on the Slovenian sea, because they do not necessarily be nuclear. And if the Slovenians decide to do so. And not least, there are national interests. It is certainly among these national interests to remain that end of the Slovenian sea which we have, our Slovenian, and to remain that end of our sea as clean as possible, even though compared to the sea our neighbours want, I do not know why it is not very clean.We have little sea and we know, dear colleagues, how the United States of America - I must mention - respect or have any relation to the Kyoto Agreement. It's just a reflection of what can happen to us. I don't know if this national council really needs a fight because of its various political interests. You're clear anyway. The interests of this country are clear anyway. People will decide one way or another. If the will is the will of most customers, except ours to join NATO, then other ships, rather than nuclear vessels, can enter Slovenian waters if necessary. We will be against the sailing of nuclear vessels, so that the end we have, the Slovenian sea and the Slovenian ecology, which I hope at least some will bet much, will be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I have listened from Mr Yuri to Mr Barovic, but no one has touched the problem of radioactivity. We're afraid of radioactivity due to nuclear-powered ships or submarines. Except for Mr Jelinčič, who said there was invisible radioactivity, of course, and then Mr Kacin, if you can't see it, you can't see it. I ask you here whether any country that has these ships, these nuclear-powered vessels, would leave its crew on board that is nonstop in this radiation. Probably not. What I'm saying is that the possibility that there's some kind of radioactivity in the Bay of Piran or the Bay of Copier is very small if a ship like that comes along. If there's a disaster, then it's another thing, but then we're at the atomic headquarters in Krske. I think it's unlikely that this threat of radioactivity will come true when a ship arrives in the cove. The other thing that bothers me is that the submarine is counted among the ships. I don't know if that's true. Mr. Kacin is talking about the ship all the time. And that's right. But the ship is my ship. I can't believe the ship is also a submarine. If we can allow the ship, if we allow it, then if we accept this novel, we will probably have to think about the submarine, because we ourselves have heard that it has also entered the port of Cyprus. Now the difference between ships and submarines, we can't do that. That's what you're saying. Something needs to be fixed here. Or let someone say the ship is safe whether the ship is a submarine or not. I'm not in the clear here, even though I'm a Primor, but I don't think so. That is why it will probably have to be rectified if we accept this novel. If we take it that way, it'll probably stay a little questionable. I'm not rooting for one, not the other. I know that this danger of radioactivity exists, but it has to come to some catastrophe, because otherwise no crew, no state will leave its crew to be under radiation all the time. I'm sure you don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you. With regard to the boat’s or vessel’s dictates, this will, of course, be answered by the government, which word is the right word. I'm guessing there's also a submarine under the water. And there's no doubt here, at least with me. About radiation or radioactivity. I am, I regret here that my colleague Gasparini did not listen well to my performance. I said - I object to this novel for two reasons. The first is of a moral - ethical nature; I oppose the use of nuclear energy for military purposes; of course, from this title I also oppose such visits. The second is of an ecological nature. Here, of course, we are talking about a potential danger if there is an accident, a collision, a collision. I warned you that in the cove, this risk is greater than it could be anywhere else. If this happens, I hope that this will never happen, but if this happens, we will bear the consequences, above all, of the people of the coast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Zalokar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate my colleague Mario Gasparini. I would like to remind him of the historical fact that, in the U.S. military, I think that they've shut up and sacrificed their soldiers in their history in the face of nuclear experiments, not told them, but then, decades later, these soldiers ended very tragically. So I have to say that I do not have any great confidence in the fact that the American army is honest in this respect with its members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u35	Replica, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I would only remind the honourable lady that this has been happening all over the world. That the authorities have actually denied the effect of radiation on the population and that entire generations have died, the Soviet Union is one of the typical examples and so on. Probably this is happening with us, too, and we, too, cannot believe 100 percent, say, near the Krško nuclear power plant, that all these reports and all those releases and everything they say is talking about certain limits and that there is no excessive radiation. It's all very relative. We can believe it or we don't believe it. These are things that are invisible. We don't really know what can happen. Of course, we have to trust some of the institutions, the regular ones that exist here, that have control over this, but that guarantee with some of their expertise, that they are knowledge, understanding, measurement within the limits of some permissibility. This is the only thing that can remain for us and, of course, control over these institutions. I think that these controls are enough today and that, above all, the case we are talking about today cannot have some disastrous consequences for Slovenia. To name just one country, because an American ship would come to us as the most typical example, I think it's incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you. A debate, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I announced yesterday that I would support this law, and I will support it, along with the government's amendments. This is because we all once signed a declaration of Slovenia's accession to NATO, with the exception of one parliamentary group. It is true, however, that we are forced to vote in favour of this law on the basis of this commitment, the moral commitment. But we do things my way very well. First of all, there are no invitations to NATO. For example, if we take the case of Poland, two years have passed between the invitation and membership. Probably, if there's an invitation, that's what's gonna happen to us. In those two years, we would have had time to regulate our legislation where it was supposed to be in violation of Nate's rules. So we're doing this surgery in my opinion as unnecessary. In a way, for some reason, we are drawn into a game that is running ahead of time and which is not, in my opinion, an honor to the functioning of the National Assembly. But we don't have a choice because we're trapped in this market. As regards only the text of the proposed law, the proposed amendment to the third paragraph assumes that only a foreign military ship which by its visit threatens the safety of the Republic of Slovenia may be rejected. It would be consistent on the part of the applicants to write down which military ship could also endanger the safety of the Republic of Slovenia, since it is not only NATO nuclear-powered ships or nuclear-powered submarines or any ship and submarines carrying nuclear weapons. I think our government's discretion should be extended to all categories of such military ships. However, if the logic is that certain matters apply to foreign warships, then they could simply remove from the code what is nuclear, and it would be understood that the concept of a military ship includes nuclear power or even nuclear weapons on board or underboard. In short, I stress the superficiality of the approach to this problem, which is not an honour. However, I will support the law for the reasons I have said, and I hope that I will also highlight some kind of speculative headlessness, with which we are still dealing with these serious issues concerning the long-term security of our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u39	Replica, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u40	So there's no misunderstanding, I'm reciting my colleague Kelemini. I would like to commend his overwhelming tone in that we still have to trust some institutions. However, I would like to point out that only one week or ten days ago, when we discussed the safety of the nuclear power plant, its tonnes were completely different. I believe that we must trust, yet I trust our experts in Krsak more than perhaps the officers on the U.S. submarine in this regard. However, before we conclude the debate, in any case, Vice-President, I raised in my opening remarks a very clear question to the government, on the point that there was a mistake. I would accept it and understand it if the government accidentally attributed a simple provision of the previous code. But this provision of the current Article 8 was written "ex newm". It is a purely new provision that clearly defines our interests, and it is affecting today's amendment. I would therefore ask once again for the government to answer me how and why the government has defined itself as such; I believe that it has done so knowingly, and I would ask for an explanation in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u41	Replica, Mr. Kelemina. The government representative intends to respond, we just have to let him have this opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In fact, I must explain or supplement what Mr Aurelio Juri said. There's two things that need to be separated. In what he said in the second part, about my possible sceptical view of nuclear safety in Slovenia, it was because I expressed certain doubts about the correctness of the reports and the proper part of the nuclear safety management because of the poor internal relations in this institution. If internal relations and relations between people themselves continue not to function as they should, then one can express doubts about the correctness of the business and also the reports and so on. That's all it's about. Nothing else. I have no doubt about these institutions, but I doubt if internal relations are the best or the best they should be; then I also doubt the reports and statements that these institutions make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u43	Mr Mahne, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I hoped that Mr Aurelio Juri had asked his question more rhetorically in the beginning. But now that he has highlighted this, I must ask him if the government could answer this question in writing, because I cannot know what the government meant when it adopted the maritime code, as it was said. The easier part of my explanation is those dilemmas relating to the dictates of the use of the word "ship" or "ship". I assure you, it doesn't affect the content. Among the definitions in Article 3 you will find that in a different division of vessels in the maritime code, according to the length applicable to all vessels, there are ships on boats up to 24 m and above 24 m, while in warships there is an exception and all warships are considered military vessels. So everything that is defined as a vessel in accordance with the maritime code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. First Mr. Janša, then Mr. Yuri. In the end, Mr. Yuri. It's a replica. You can turn it off, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you. My question was not rhetorical, it was very concrete, and I have put this on the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. There is no appropriate response from the government, for obviously everyone is hiding behind what was done, but no one knows who wrote it down and how it went through. But I'm saying this isn't a serious government behavior. From this address, I hoped that we would at least reach the bottom of this truth today, why someone within the Ministry of Transport had written such a provision. Was it conscious or was it the one-day fly of the one who wrote it? How come it went through all the bars, normally? I was aware of this in the dictatorship, and many have read it, at least I have tried and read the main articles of this maritime code, especially those to which I have been warned, read and understood as a conscious definition, a conscious choice of our country. Then he appeared, as you know, a problem when he visited the submarine when the Foreign Minister said, "Who wrote this nonsense in there?" And then the circle started spinning. I think that was already an open question and someone today should make it clear whether it was a bad choice or whether the new circumstances dictated a changed position.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u48	This debate has shown that, in fact, in some ways, it has happened needlessly that a maritime code has been adopted as it was. If the representatives of the government then who were responsible were to make greater efforts, this procedure would, in my view, be particularly unnecessary. But what happened happened, and now we're fixing this mistake. Once again, I'm warning you what I said in the introduction. By amending the maritime code, we do not now introduce any free regime for the influence of foreign military nuclear and other ships in Slovenian territorial or internal waters. Any nuclear or non-nuclear military ship still requires an explicit individual permit to enter Slovenian waters just in case. I think this has been completely forgotten in this debate. If the government decides on this individual case, whenever such a request or initiative comes, that it would harm Slovenia's national security, or if it considers that it would endanger the environment in our country or in our waters, it may simply not issue such an invitation or issue such a permit. He doesn't say he has to. As a result, when we change the maritime code, we do not throw away all the guards you have warned about. I think it is very important and that this debate has been completely overlooked. The warnings given here in this regard are, in my opinion, legitimate in many ways, also going on elsewhere, nuclear energy has been the subject of many dilemmas, controversy and debates from the very beginning, and it would be abnormal for us not to do so. However, in all matters, the reasons for and against must be weighed; in cases where the image is not black-faced, it is necessary to decide on the basis of which side there are several reasons for it rather than against. Three key concerns or three main sets of concerns against this proposal have been raised. First, to allow such a change to the maritime code, we will be threatened by those with nuclear weapons. That's, excuse me, totally inappropriate. Those with nuclear weapons that would threaten Slovenia can do so regardless of our maritime code. You probably agree with me that it's no defense if we have an article in the code, it won't stop anything like that. But I think that, thank God, at least there is no danger in the foreseeable future. The second set of concerns includes concerns against the safety of nuclear technology itself. These concerns exist; at this stage of the development of science and technology there is absolutely no safe use of nuclear energy, not for peaceful and military purposes. Any such device to a certain degree shall constitute a risk. Therefore, the real question here is whether a risk is acceptable or unacceptable under certain specific circumstances. We already have a nuclear power plant in our territory, so we've already taken some degree of risk with respect to it. And the majority of public opinion and the majority opinion in, I don't know, the power structures are that this power plant will continue to operate for 20 years. So we accept this level of risk. We have a nuclear reactor for scientific purposes here with Ljubljana; it is also a degree of risk and we accept it. Definitely. The fact is that a nuclear or nuclear warship or any nuclear device in a Kohrska or a marketing port almost equally threatens Slovenian territory, regardless of where the border is. Well, the radiation won't stop at the border crossing. Now to speak, and to be in the port of marketing, it will be much safer for us, that is to say. It's the exact same level of risk. Literally. If you look at the map, there may be even more territory at risk if anything happened in the port of marketing than if it were in the port of copier. Third, but that's what you have to say. Objectively given the development of technologies, which, on behalf of the proposers, would be
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u49	So when the government proposes a law, it's not limited to five minutes. In such a way that other applicants cannot be in a different position.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u50	Now, after all the research, it must also be said that devices using nuclear technology in the West are safer than those used in the East. From this point of view, some Western nuclear technology in our vicinity poses a lower risk than Russian nuclear power plants in Central Europe. This is also a fact that, unfortunately, has already been empirically checked with the Chernobyl accident. Now, a third set of these concerns is part of the political debate. At least three of you here have said that the amendment of this law represents some form of proponent to those who are stronger and possess nuclear weapons, specifically the United States has been mentioned. Now, this is the second debate. Here, however, it is necessary to ask whether the objective, which is not only an official objective of Slovenian politics, but also an explicit goal in the coalition contract of the current government and which says that our interest is the early inclusion in NATO, the North Atlantic Alliance, whether it is honestly written or not. Do we view integration in then as joining a circle where we share similar values, but is this adhering to a stronger one? Those who think it is more powerful will, of course, vote against this amendment of the maritime code, and against Slovenia's membership in NATO. If he thinks so, it would be fair, otherwise it's dishonest. Definitely. This, of course, is a legitimate dilemma that surely divides us. Now, colleague Yuri, you belong to a government party that has signed a coalition contract that states that Slovenia's goal is to join NATO as soon as possible. This is also the case with the European Union, and most countries are stronger than we are. We're probably not going there because of some compulsion, but because we think we're going to grow there faster. That this will be a better environment for us. Of course, the same applies to NATO. The debate is legitimate, the dilemmas are legitimate, but it is necessary to be honest then also with the Slovenian public, not sign something and then defend something else. It is true, however, that under these conditions or partner objectives in the annual plan, it is not written, for example, that Slovenia has to change the maritime code if it wants to become a member of NATO. It doesn't say that anywhere. No official inspection required that either. But of course, that doesn't mean anything. It's not just us who decide whether we're going to be members of NATO, it's up to others. And the fact is, at this point, no NATO Member State or any candidate for NATO membership, except Slovenia, has such a general prohibition in its legislation as we have in the maritime code. As long as this ban remains, it is a negative signal in the year when our membership in NATO is decided. As long as it doesn't stay, as long as we remove it, there's a positive signal. And it is now up to this House to decide whether to send a positive or to send a negative signal to those who will also decide on our membership in NATO, and this year. The dilemma is completely simple. It's not some formal criterion, but it's a signal. Let's decide whether we send a positive or we send a negative. So I appeal once again on behalf of the Members we have signed this law. The Dark Government opposes, the committee has supported the law, that the majority in the National Assembly do so and that we send this positive signal. With this concrete change, Slovenian national security will certainly not be reduced or reduced in any way, on the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you. Two replicas. Mr. Yuri and Mr. Battelli. Mr. Yuri first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u52	I would first point out, Mr Vice-President, that the Rules of Procedure have been violated, as a longer debate has been allowed than 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u53	I claim that the rules of procedure have not been violated because it is a bill-maker. And if we allow the government to speak indefinitely when it seems to it, then we can also allow those who propose the law to do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u54	Then I apologize for understanding your warning in the opposite sense. Oh. K., then I say goodbye. Otherwise, the debate would be a pleasant one because it gives me an opportunity to answer certain questions. The applicant himself notes that there are no explicit requirements and that the inspection has not explicitly requested but is talking about a positive signal to be sent to the Prague Summit. I can start to list and write down a whole list of signals that we can send to the Prague Summit, of course, so that we will definitely accept. This argument is a little weak and in the end we can bow, 100%, to American politics, raise to 2% or 3% for the military, and, of course, we will communicate much in this way. I just think the question remains. First of all, there's no explicit request. We could make that change when it's time, today, I think it's too early. And with this change we also send a signal to somewhere else, not just Prague - we send it to our public. And our public will be thrilled not only by the polls but also by the introduction of a regulation that opens our ports, our doors to entry not only nuclear power but also nuclear weapons. Look, Mr Janša, of course we accept such a level of risk. Initially, I have said that I accept the level of risk that relates to a crackdown, but I do not accept the introduction of new risk elements. With such a change, we introduce new risk elements and thereby accumulate risk in our space. Therefore, we must also be aware that this risk also arises in the public, which will be defined to the requirements that we meet for membership in NATO, and I do not believe that it will speak in favour. See, the very public presentation of the opinions that we organized at the time and at this presentation were used by all possible cannons in favour of entering NATO, we know what the public's reactions were. I also assume we won't get any more sympathy from each other with this sophistication. I do belong to a party that has signed a coalition treaty and also a statement of support for entry into NATO and the European Union, but in that coalition treaty it was very clear that we also support the maritime code as it was prepared. And we assumed that those who supported this would not need such changes. Mr Janša and the group of Members who signed this claim that this is necessary, not because this is required of us, but because we must send a good signal. But as I say, here we can open a signal array and wave with all the flags to spot us and also invite us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u55	Mr. Battelli, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's not a replica. It's procedural. Yesterday I pointed out certain, I think, shortcomings in the text and amendments that we're dealing with. I said that again today. I would like to make an amendment to this law, which, look at it in substance -- and I would like some attention, however. We cannot, in the long term, waive the discretionary right to prevent the entry into our waters of military ships of all categories for which we would assess in a given situation that could endanger the security of the Republic of Slovenia. And if we are so precise in the previous paragraphs of the articles defining these types of ships, a real ordinary nuclear-powered ship, a nuclear-powered warship, any ship carrying nuclear weapons and so on, then we must do so also in the third paragraph. Where it is found that if something threatens our safety, we have a discretionary right to prevent it. And that's not a small question. And we are aware of certain matters in the course of the debate and the handling of this rather sensitive topic. And I believe that, given the debate that has taken place, it is imperative to table such an amendment. And that's why I'm asking you to let me do this. If necessary, also by the vote of the National Assembly. And I believe that many colleagues would sign it, which does not prejudge in any sense the meaning of the law and the intent of the law. But we can't do this on such a superficial scale.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Battelli. I forgive myself, but that was a little bit of a, let me put it this way, a broader debate on procedure. You have every opportunity to table an amendment until the end of the point, an article to which amendments are being tabled. Until the conclusion of the debate. So please, we are in a general debate, which I hope we will conclude now. I ask you to form this amendment if you think it is necessary and put it in place and, of course, it is very difficult to hold a meeting and discuss it because this is one for two months already in circulation, this material. This makes the work of the National Assembly very difficult. So please, give as soon as possible this amendment to form. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The only problem is that the general debate will soon be over and then it will no longer be procedurally possible [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u59	More, more. You just do it if you think it's necessary and
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u61	In the meantime, we'll just keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. So now we are still in the general debate. Who wants a word? No one else. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, namely to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments, of 12.2.2002. One page and a little bit more, one sheet of paper. So this is a review of the amendments to the amendment and the completion of the maritime code, the reduced procedure. We know that this amendment has two articles. The first is substantive; the second is actually more formal. And I'm putting Article 1 into the debate. In this article, we have four amendments and an amendment by Mr Battelli. Of course, I warn Mr Battelli that now is not the time for discussion, but that he must make an amendment if he thinks it is important. Okay, I'm opening a debate on the amendments. No one wants to discuss the amendments, the article. Mr. Jansha. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u64	I would ask the government representative first if he would explain what he means by the term "trade nuclear ship". If there's one you can tell me that there is.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u65	Representative of the government, Mr. Mahne. Can you please explain this, answer the question? And I'm reminding you of the procedure, Mr Battelli. While you are discussing with people, fellow Members, time is running out. And, of course, the National Assembly is not obliged to wait for you to debate until I don't know when. Excuse me. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u66	Well, I'm sure I agree with that. I also said in the introduction yesterday that, given that in Article 8 itself, there was a little bit more talk about individual types of vessels and that the definitions of Article 3 were not followed consistently, where the military ship was defined and where nuclear ships were defined, of course this caused some problems to the government as well, and this amendment would say that if only a personal opinion could be expressed, it was rejected. I can't tell you anything else, but I don't know ships like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you. This is what we call Article 1 and the four amendments. So far, I find no new amendment has been tabled. The debate is still under way. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u68	I am reminded of the fact that this has already happened, it is said that the practice in the National Assembly is to take a break for the amendment. I therefore request, on behalf of the Group of Members, 15 minutes of time for the amendment to be tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u69	Mr. Battelli, I don't think you can ask for a 15-minute break. We'll pick it up at 11.45.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u70	Please join us in the hall because we're at the edge of the conundrum. We'll determine the presence, for the first time. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at the presence in the hall for the first time. Quorum, please. 40 present. There's about 60 of us in the hall. We're picking up the presence, another time. Press the quorum, please. I note that 53 Members and Members are present and we can continue our work. During this time, Mr Battelli has tabled an amendment that is still in the process of multiplying, so you do not yet have it on your hands. But I'm going to read it anyway because it's very short. Amendment to Article 1: 'In the third paragraph of Article 1, the following text shall be added after the words 'foreign military ship': [[Quote]] : 'Nuclear-powered foreign warships, foreign warships with nuclear weapons'. Explanation: The proposed solution defines more precisely the discretionary right of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to allow or not allow all categories of military ships to enter our territorial or internal waters. Roberto Battelli, head of the parliamentary group." I'm putting this amendment in fifth place, which means that behind the fourth amendment in this review you have in your hands, this fifth amendment will be. So now we have five amendments. The debate is not yet concluded. Who wants a word? Nobody? Please, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u71	Well, I don't think that's necessary, but still. With this amendment, Mr Battelli can achieve even the opposite effect of what he meant. Because a foreign military ship is a term that covers all ships, whether they are on diesel or on nuclear power, or whether they are on nuclear power and have nuclear weapons, or whether they are on nuclear power and do not have nuclear weapons, and vice versa, in short, all combinations. Therefore, there is no need to add a specific specification to this. This third paragraph gives the right to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to allow a foreign military ship to visit when it thinks that this is not good. Any ship. But if we just write "nuclear-weapon ships" or "nuclear-powered ships," that's narrower. Then it's narrower. But if we add, it's just like they say, I don't know that hunting for the season is open to poultry, ducks and chickens. It's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u72	It was a debate on the amendments. Yes, it is. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u73	What Mr Janša says could be true if, when the ban on entering our internal waters of certain categories of ships is lifted, we know which one would not be explicitly stated. Because then you could, as I say, stay in the whole article and the law only when it comes to the term "military ship". Because if a foreign military ship covers all categories, then I do not see why any military ships had to be specified in the preceding paragraphs. So if we're doing this in the preceding paragraphs, we also have to do it in terms of discretion, I think. Thank you. That's all I'm saying. I'm sorry. Of course, the term "foreign warship" as part of the poultry remains.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u74	Anyone else want a word? No one else. Then I conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 1 and move on to the decision-making process. We shall first vote on the amendment to Article 1 under order number 1. If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment under order number 3 is irrelevant, which you could also read in the footnote. So we are voting on the first amendment to Article 1. Let's vote, please. Of the 49 present, 24 Members and Members voted in favour, 10 against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 32 Members and Members voted in favour. Eight was against it. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Thus, the amendment under order number 3 is irrelevant and we are voting on the fourth amendment to Article 1. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 33 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the fourth amendment has been adopted. And now we're left with the fifth, Mr Battelli's amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 17 MEPs and Members voted in favour. 30 were against it. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. And now we are voting on Article 1 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 36 Members and Members voted in favour, 11 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] Article 1 is hereby adopted. We have another article in this amendment of the law, this is Article 2. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to decision on Article 2. Let's vote, please. Of the 54 present, 40 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. And here we have another amendment, on the other hand, if you turn this sheet around, you can see that there is also an amendment to the title of the law. So we're in the debate on the title of the code. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate and we're moving to a vote on the title, on the amendment, sorry. Amendments. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 37 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 9th.]] With this, we have also adopted this amendment, and this address has been adopted. We are going through the third reading of the proposal for a code. I note that the amendment to Article 1 and to the title was adopted in the second reading of the draft law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. That's not the interest. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss the proposal for a full code. [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am still asking about coherence. Is it consistent? Since it is harmonised, we can move to a full vote on the Code. Mr Pece has an explanation of vote. Please, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. If we agree to this fact that the National Assembly has, in its current practice, dealt with laws for which it has received a directive from various European and global integrations and has adhered to this directive in the sense that we do not oppose what foreigners require of us, it has received at least some directives, although of course we do not agree with this in the Slovenian national party. But somehow it's justifiable for all those who don't listen to different institutions. However, in the case of amendments to the Maritime Code, we have not even received this Directive in the short term. In this case, the National Assembly, all those Members who will vote in favour of these amendments and additions, will achieve three effects: firstly, nuclear power in our sea, secondly, nuclear cargo in our sea, and thirdly, nuclear weapons in our sea. The emphasis was on the sea, but it is even more necessary to emphasise the size of the Slovenian sea. And instead of talking about the sea, the sea, the coast, the economic issues, and saying how we will solve or how we will help improve Luke Koper, how we will contribute to a better tourist season - no, we are meeting on these few kilometres to destroy the Slovenian tourist season, the Slovenian coast, by allowing us to do so, all three radioactive elements, to legalize them and welcome them. Whose wish? No one's wish. At the request of a part of this national assembly. In the Slovenian national party, of course, over this loss of sovereignty, and in this case we do so, we do not intend to support this law. And to all those who, at least as many as look on the basis of Slovenian interests, we advise that they do not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u77	Very briefly, I will not repeat what I said before. The fact that no amendment has been adopted has changed the content of the amendment to Article 8 of the Maritime Code. Of course, I regret that the arguments I mentioned did not run into much support. Nevertheless, I predict I will vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you. Voice explanation, Mrs. Montenegro, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I would like to explain why I am going to vote against the amendment proposal and the completion of the maritime code. Above all, I have not been convinced by any of the debaters, as well as by the amendments themselves and by the amendment of the law, that the situation has changed from 23.3.2001 to today. The second reason is entirely personal, i.e. I have been opposed to nuclear weapons for many years, I am opposed to nuclear energy in general, and i think that because of the safety and ecological security principles and principles and because of the harmful effects of radiation, the law, as it is, is not put in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you. Can we get to the vote now? Yes, you can. We are voting on the Code as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposed Code has been fully adopted. And I'm closing this agenda. We're moving on to the 1st Dot of the Day, which is a defensive proposal for a law restricting the adverting of a drinker containing alcohol, a quick procedure. Mrs Possonec, Mrs Possonec, as the proposer of that bill by letter of 19 February this year, informed the assembly that the proposal for a law restricting the advertising of alcohol-containing beverages was withdrawn from the legislative procedure. You received a motion on the bench. Mrs. Possonchev's not here today. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word on this? A representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] The MPs and the MPs? [[Not at all.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal by Mrs Marie Possonec to withdraw the proposal for a law restricting the advertising of alcohol-containing drinks, a rapid procedure, from the legislative process. Let's vote, please. Of the 57 present, 42 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And that concludes this point. We're moving to Point 1.F. Mr. Peche. Procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u81	Respectable present. My procedural proposal also concerns the completion of the takeover law and the law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of restrictive competition in the sense that we would save this national assembly a shameful act in the future and today you the time that is appreciated. As you know, we have tabled both laws solely and exclusively to protect the domestic economy. To protect it from foreign acquisitions and to allow one of the forms of competition prohibited under the existing law. Of course, at the expense of those, in particular foreign entities that already exist in our market order, and who will be more frequently present with us today or this year, until we are fully open to the so-called European Union or regular membership. In short, as it is procedural and an explanation of the proposed decision, the purpose of both laws was to protect the domestic economy. However, in the context of both proposals for laws that have been tabled correctly, which have already put their way of life through their home working body, the Committee on the Economy, I would like to say only the following. For the first time, the secretariat gave a negative opinion. The Committee on the Economy gave a negative opinion, even more so, by voting 1 to 8, which means that all political parties, except the Slovenian national party, were opposed to both laws imposed, i.e. the takeover law and the anti-competitive law. The government opposed, as well as the Ministry of Economy, which was present on the working body itself and also included the so-called Association of the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia, which took even the opposite position, namely that it is necessary to establish a new fiscal system in the Republic of Slovenia, which will include certain tax incentives for the entry of foreign investors, i.e. foreign capital, which will engender Slovenian capital, the existing Slovenian structure, particularly that which today stands and which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gives, does not sell, gives to foreigners. For all of this, and in particular because of the fact that this national assembly is going to save those disgraces that will happen otherwise if we leave both laws in the procedure, that is to say that the two protection laws for the Slovenian economy will fall. That they will not once, if they read the proposals on what has been discussed at the national meeting and how this National Assembly, the 2000-2004 National Assembly, will vehemently reject the content of the protection of Slovenian economic operators, as it has been at the national working body, I suggest that we withdraw the laws from the procedure, thereby saving all of you and making ourselves as if it were never possible to do so. I hope you'll accept the proposal. With this we offer you an elegant solution, but unfortunately the Slovenian National Party has only four Members and we fear that this law will only be supported by four votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Two questions for this procedural proposal. The first is, for the proposed law on additions and the law on acquisitions, the first signed Mr. Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti. In order to be able to decide on these two proposals, we need at least a clear word, or you are withdrawing because you said 'I propose withdrawal'. So, are you withdrawing or not? It is usually necessary to do so in writing, but, given that the session is being recorded, it would also be sufficient orally, but it should be clearly stated'return this and that'. Please, if this first law can make the first law signed, Mr Victory Jelinčič and for the second law, when it comes to it, Mr Sašo Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As already stated by colleague Sašo Peče, the Slovenian National Party withdraws the proposal for a law supplementing the law on takeovers for a reason which has obviously already been said. The fact is that the Slovenian Parliament, as well as the Slovenian Ministry of Economy, is not in the interest of protecting domestic economic operators, but is in the interest of early integration into a kind of united European Union in which we will be second-rate partners and in order to adopt our particular political lords in the European Union and to give them at least a few friendly views, is prepared by Parliament, as well as by the Ministry of Economy, and in particular by the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly, to renounce the interests of its own, Slovenian economy and to allow manipulation and entry and hostile takeover by foreigners. That is why, once again, Mr President, we withdraw the proposal for a law supplementing the takeover law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? Please, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u85	For a very short time, more because of the media or because of cameras and similar things, I would just like to say that the basic purpose of protecting the domestic economy was to be excluded. Who will be the one who would provide protection on the proposals of the Slovenian national party that was not supported on any working body in any institution, we wanted to give this new authority to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal by the Member, Mr Viktor Jelinčič Trimenite, to withdraw the proposal for a law supplementing the law on acquisitions from the legislative procedure. Let's vote, please. Of the 53 present, 42 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and the law has been withdrawn from the legislative process. Now there's an even smaller procedural matter. The additional decision has been tabled in this law and I ask Mr. Feri Horvat, Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, is the matter still valid? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. This additional decision is still up to date and I propose that the assembly adopt it. Indeed, in the debate, in particular on the basis of the opinion of the Chamber of Economics, which drew attention to a number of concrete problems in the implementation of the takeover law, and this was confirmed also by the debate, a single opinion was adopted and a proposal was adopted unanimously, and the Government also agreed to adopt this Decision. [[I won't read it.]] , which speaks of the fact that the government, when engaging external experts, should also carry out an analysis of the implementation of the law so far, identify its weaknesses and then propose an appropriate amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on an additional decision. Mr. Peche. [[The report's in the file, because you noticed that.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you. The additional decision in the financial committee's report is simply sanding in the eyes. Whoever had an interest in protecting the domestic economy in the area of acquisitions in this National Assembly could have supported the proposal of the law. At the same time, I would like to stress once again that all political parties, except the Slovenian national party, have rejected the takeover proposal on the home labour body. Therefore, the additional decision is not intended for another as an apology to the public or to the Slovenian public, and to say yes, the proposal to protect the Slovenian economy, specifically in the area of acquisitions, will be rejected and in return we will adopt a quasi decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss it, please? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate on an additional decision and moving on to a decision. So we are voting on an additional decision. Let's vote, please. Of the 47 present, 33 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the additional decision has been adopted and this item is thus concluded. We move on to the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Preventing Competition. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Sasha Pecett. As Mr Pece said before, if I understand correctly, this law is withdrawing from the legislative procedure. Is that right, Mr. Pache? [[Yeah.]] Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u91	So it doesn't sound as harsh as you just said, I'd like to tell you again why we're withdrawing it. We withdraw it because Member groups represented in this national assembly have already spoken before this proposal in their home working body. And because all the parliamentary groups opposed the bill. Because the parliamentary groups did not allow a debate on this, because the Ministry of the Economy was explicitly opposed to the content of the proposal for a law on the prevention of competition, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was solely against that law and because the Economic Chamber was against that law, although the law only introduces a new article 11a which would allow, under the conditions established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, also a form of concentration when it comes to national interest. Sadly, though, there is no record of this in this national assembly. And so that this law, as a vital law of national interest, should not be covered by just four votes in favour, but that is why we are withdrawing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Government? [[No, no, ……]] Emissary groups? [[Not at all.]] Excuse me, Mr. Pohorec. On behalf of the parliamentary group or on your behalf? On behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. As far as the previous withdrawn law is concerned, and now we hear the following again, and this goes on the air, goes to the public, goes to the media. So in this national assembly, we have only one party fighting for Slovenia's national interest. We're all left against this interest. All of us are those who would like to spend the Slovenian economy, destroy, sell, sell out, "sak" to others. I don't agree to that kind of assessment. And neither does our parliamentary group. So it is also the Committee on the Economy that does so, the government that does so, the ministry that does so, and we, all the others, who are us, except one party with four Members, as is ours, in this House. I do not agree with this assessment, and if the opinion of one goes to the public, let this go as well. Each of us can order or write three, four articles of one law, give it in the process and under the name of Slovenian national interest to discuss, discuss and come to the front of newspapers and in front of TV cameras. I think it's a very cheap political propaganda for a party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u94	This was the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Any other members of the group would like to present their views? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, if Mr Pohorec had already spoken about protesting, then it would have been reasonable if DeSUS had also introduced a law, not the only law he had passed, and which he had elected or led, to have been the law on pension reforms, which had all the Slovenians and Slovenes hit the devil on the head, so that they had taken care of themselves, for all the other Slovenians, but certainly not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u96	Mr Jelinčič, I'm sorry, the dispute between the parliamentary groups is not possible under the rules of procedure. Now we're at a point where we're talking about withdrawal and that's all we can talk about.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u97	It is true, Mr. Chairman, but
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u98	I apologize for the intervention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u99	No harm, you allowed Mr Pohorc to politicize, on behalf of the parliamentary group with the Slovenian National Party Group, even
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u100	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u101	One disagreement, and I don't know what qualifications, and you didn't warn him. But I'm gonna stop this and go to law school. The undeniable fact is that the law that we have put into discussion is a summary of European legislation, which, despite being much stronger and significantly stronger than Slovenia, defends its national interests. A direct German law was taken for the basis and, if I am not mistaken, if they may not know here in the National Assembly, the German economy is significantly stronger than Slovenia and yet it is worth protecting their interests in certain areas. The Slovenian government, the coalition of parties, LDS, the people's parties, DeSUS, the combined list and mainly the young parties were against the protection of Slovenian national interests. They were opposed to protecting our economy or merely allowing the Slovenian government to regulate or reject the matter when it is judged to be detrimental to the Slovenian economy. If this is not only a lack of support for Slovenian national interests, but even the destruction of Slovenian national interests, then I do not know what it is. In its debate, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, of course, blew into the government horn. She was saying what was happening to the weather and by the will of the government, not what the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce was actually for. Again, it has been shown that the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce is nothing more than a compulsory association that requires membership and does nothing for the Slovenian economy. He may not do anything, do nothing good, for he certainly does a lot of bad things. In the Slovenian National Party, we consider that the National Assembly did not understand the intention of the law - we think so - but we do believe that it was only a dictatorship of the government that demanded of the National Assembly, as it had already been so many times that it would break this law. Surely our negotiators and Prime Minister in Europe would ask what he meant by having the law passed. And I am sure that the Prime Minister and our negotiators would not be able to answer in which German law is similar or almost identical protection applied and enacted. As a result, it is best to be humble, down, crawl on the ground, perhaps if you are lucky, in this case the master will also be there to worship you. However, the Slovenian national party is certainly not like this. And it is true - here I apologize to use the name of my colleague Pohorca again - it is true, Mr Pohorec, that the Slovenian national party is in fact the only party in the Slovenian Parliament fighting for national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u102	Now I'd just like to warn you. So, you've asked for the withdrawal of the point, and I ask that all the debaters - now we're still with the sent groups - speak only of retreat, for or against, but not of all the other topics that are, say, partly related. Mr. Diaca, would you like a word on behalf of the delegation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we oppose this law or we will vote in favour of withdrawal. As far as the words are concerned - I must not dispute with Mr. Jelinčič, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u104	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u105	But all I'm gonna say is why we're gonna back the retreat. We will support the withdrawal mainly because we oppose the return to the central planning economy. At the same time, it should also be stressed that these two proposals, in my personal opinion, are even constitutionally controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you. Does any other member of the group want a word? Mr. Ferry Horvat, please, on behalf of the united list.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Representatives and representatives of the government! We will support the withdrawal proposal, as we have also supported the withdrawal of the previous law. I am grateful to my colleagues that they have proposed this withdrawal because this saves time, which is also in the national interest, because we are spending too much of it fruitlessly, even in this Parliament. I reject the disqualifications that have been given, if only one party is the one defending the national interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u108	That's a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u109	That is why we will vote in favour because such a bill as has been tabled does not have the national interest and does not defend the national interest. Because to propose provisions that both the secretariat and the government - and we also know this - know the European Agreement to propose some solutions that are contrary to the commitments we have made with the European Association Agreement, this is true in both laws - is unacceptable, that is one. And also other arguments against this were so weighty that they also prevailed on the committee that there was a vote, thank you for saying this to the proponents, 8:1. Indeed, in recent times it has become quite fashionable to scrutinize national interest and collect cheap points from it. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that such work is not going anywhere and that it is not only an expert but also a general public but so enlightened and so smart and critical that it knows what is actually in the national interest and what is not. We have recently had a very broad debate here between representatives from all activities, from the economy, profession, science, Members of Parliament and others, where we have discussed widely the national interest in, above all, economic development and social development. And to conclude with this, taking into account some well-founded warnings, although the Chamber was criticised, the Chamber has quite professionally pointed out some of the problems of the takeover law. And that's why it's also a proposal, and I'm grateful that you've accepted it. I hope that the government will take this seriously and, as soon as possible, on the basis of the experience and weaknesses of this law, come up with a proposal for a amendment to this law, as well as other measures, which will actually help to protect the national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Any other group of Members would like a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I don't have any written reports. So, I am moving on to a debate between Members and Members who have not applied in writing. Limitation of 5 minutes. First Mr. Pache and then Mr. Barovic. But we're talking about withdrawal. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u111	For the last time, as a proposaler, I will touch these materials. I would like to ask because before me you have allowed Mr Janša, one of the previous points, to propose that he had a little more time, if you are a little more elastic in my implementation and do not interrupt me immediately. Look, for the first time, there was a speech about who supports national interest and who doesn't support it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have different options, some call it, instruments through which it is visible, who supports, who does not support. This is a so-called vote. And only in an explanation to DeSUS Members: in this room we vote by means of buttons, on one says "against", on one of them it says "yes", and from this it can be seen who is for what. If you press "against" means you're against it; if you press "against", it means you support it. On the Committee on the Economy, this happens by raising your hands. And if only one member of the committee voted in favour of the bill and if it was from the Slovenian National Party, we can say with sufficient self-criticism that the other eight were present, but the other eight were against national interest. But it is true - Mr Ferri Horvat as a proponent - yes, we differ when we define the concept of national interest. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not consider that the national interest is what Mrs Petrinova says is the entry of foreign investments. This is the purchase of a Slovenian economy by foreigners, because only foreigners are able to revive, to fertilize our economy. No, this is not a national interest for us! As for us, it is not the national interest of the Chamber of Commerce to introduce tax reliefs for foreigners. Of course, if we stand on our own shore and consider what is national interest and what is not, then it is logical that this is the result of voting one against eight. It is our view that national interest is the protection of the domestic economy. And one way or another, it will be said with a laugh, on the part of the youth party, that this is some sort of centralist management - yes, if it is at the expense of the plus of the Slovenian economy, if it is at the expense of the additional employment of a Slovenian worker. Yes, if this is at the expense of reducing public debt; yes, if this is in the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Then we'll agree to that. Let me finish. I will quote once again the tape record of the Economic Committee meeting, so everyone in this Chamber will be clear, even DeSUS: "Who is in favour of such a proposal for a decision, that is to say, to adopt the said law? [[This Decision shall ……]] Is anyone against it? [[Eight members.]] "This tells us all about the ratio of forces and the mentality of Members of Parliament in this national assembly. Thank you for your understanding, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much. May I ask for peace in the hall? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you. In the parliamentary group, Mr President, we have agreed that the withdrawal - so we are talking about the withdrawal - will be advocated by the proposer, Mr Jelinčič and Mr Pece, but I must say a few words, because there have been some challenges. We withdraw this law because we think that the concepts between democracy, anarchy and dictatorship have mixed somewhat. Secondly, we withdraw this law because it is obvious that colleagues and colleagues do not want to understand that there are more market economies in the global economic system: there is a liberal, limited liberal, planning and market economy and there are more types of them. And if, by chance, it is a planned or limited liberal market economy - those who have studied know what it is - then I think we could rightly say that our proposals were directed in this direction. And there's one more thing. As I told the congregations that the government had done too little to look at the congregation, it did not look at the plans, the plans; so I say that the Ministry of Economy has, in mind, rejected these proposals. Think about it! Therefore, let me once again say that we withdraw because I do not want to, even my name in the list of those Members who will be guilty, perhaps in 2005 that they have sold out Slovenian values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable guests from the government. I personally support the withdrawal of these two or this proposal. But it seems to me that thinking is going in the right direction. Why? Here, of course, the proposal speaks mainly of foreign investments, acquisitions and so on and prevention of competition, but I think we must first look at ourselves, at our own market, at how this market behaves. And I fear that the market does not behave as it should, because there are too many conflicts of interest, connection and clientism. The government should therefore review both laws and try to comply with European standards. It has been said that this proposal follows the German model, and if this is true - unfortunately I have not checked it myself - I would think that the government should also take that into account. Indeed, immediately after World War II, the Germans had many of these things, which were in conflict, a legal conflict, but then, according to American models, concerning the restriction of competition and so on, they took on these principles and are today one of the most serious proponents to review and control this scene. It would therefore be good for the government to examine this matter and draw up proposals themselves to meet European standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to say that I will respect the wishes of the national party and support their withdrawal proposal, but I personally wonder why you have made any kind of investment if you are withdrawing today. Of course, all that you have been saying about this withdrawal, you could speak at the very point and prove yourself to be a party that is very concerned about national interests. As far as voting on the municipalities is concerned, of course, you have fully supported the government's opinion and it is pointless to talk about how you acted on this point. At least 150,000 voters, so you didn't see it in the context of national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Perhaps again Mr Sok should be explained why we are withdrawing the proposal. So that most of these Members here will not be blushing for some time and because so strong was the falange of all those who voted against the adoption of this law and against the treatment; and Mr Sok, also your Members voted against the consideration of this proposal and against the fact that the bill would be good for adoption and for consideration in the National Assembly. If I hadn't been removed from this law, it would probably have been the State Assembly, as the rolling stock of the opposition's ideas and proposals, that proposal would have been approved and withdrawn from the procedure, or that it would have been decided that it was not good for further discussion. We have only saved some time because we are aware that time is just as important a category and also a category of national interest. And also with regard to the congregations, it would make sense if you looked at the vote, and you would see that what you said did not hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal by Mr Saš Pečet, Member of Parliament, to withdraw the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of competition from the legislative process. Can we vote, please? Let's vote! Of the 46 present, 36 members and Members voted against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This also concludes this agenda item. I'm moving to 2. Period of the day - the first draft of the bill on the system of payments in the public sector. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. On this occasion, I welcome the Minister and his co-workers, and ask if the government representative wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Members and Members! Allow me some explanations about the purposes and reasons for this law, the content of the law and the preparation of this law so far. I would like to begin by finding that, in the debates so far, Slovenia needs a new system of public sector wages, so that a new law and other system-wide acts should be adopted that will shape this system. Life in this area has grown beyond the current legal framework. This does not mean that we will get a new wage system in the public sector overnight, but, on the contrary, we are advocating a gradual build-up of it. It will take about three years to come if we take into account the analytical phase that took place in 2001, when three analyses were made as a basis for systemic solutions. If this is what we consider this year's adoption of the law and the continuation of certain sub-legislative rules, and if we count here in 2003 when the collective negotiations on the implementation phase of this law are to be concluded. The key budgetary effects of this law are projected to occur in budgetary two years, four, five and six, seven and are not planned in the current two years 2002, 2003. If you'll allow me, the meaning of the law should only be spoken of by two, three numbers. You are probably aware that all legal persons in the Republic of Slovenia have paid, data are for 2000, for salaries of SIT 1,312 billion, which is 32% of the gross social product. In the consolidated public funding balance, salaries in the state administration and public institutions amounted, again, to a figure of 2000, 387 billion or 21.8% of total expenditure. In the public sector, 152,095 people were employed, representing 26.3% of the total number of employees. As I say, the basis for the systemic solutions that we are proposing are three analyses and, if you allow me very short, a succinct summary of the main findings of these three analyses. This is a wage analysis in the public sector - the first part talking about wage movement. This is a wage analysis in the public sector - the second part that talks about wage ratios and the international salary analysis in the OECD countries, which gives international comparisons of wages. All these three analyses were considered and accepted by the government in the spring of the preparatory year as regards the wage-making system as a starting point for further work on the law. A key conclusion from the first analysis is that the objective has been achieved globally over the past four years, namely that wages on the employee have increased slower than labour productivity and that wage growth has also been slower than gross social product, but imbalances have arisen within the public sector and even more or less uncontrolledly the wage ratios between different occupational groups have changed. The increase in wages has been achieved, as is known, mainly by introducing new ones and increasing existing supplements. It is accurate that there is over 80 such data in different parts of the public sector. As a result of the simultaneous increase in wages and employment, public sector wage costs have risen above average. The analysis shows that after 1994, wages in particular increased in health care were accelerated and that in 2000 the fastest increase in wages in education was the case. The allowances that have deformed the pay system today represent 10 to 55% of the wage structure and mostly range between 25 and 35. International findings are important, i.e. from the international analysis of the OECD countries. Let me just sum up the fact that relative gross wages in public administration, health care, education and other common services in Slovenia are significantly higher than the average of the OECD developed countries, compared to the private sector, by about 20%. Perhaps this information relating to the number of employees compared to OECD countries. In Slovenia, fewer workers are observed compared to OECD countries on average, in public administration by 14%, more workers are seen in education than in most OECD countries, and in Slovenia the same or fewer health workers are again compared to developed OECD countries, according to this analysis. Otherwise, I would take the key points with the following. In fact, comparisons between the salaries of individual countries are not sufficient grounds for establishing systemic solutions, precisely because there is a wide variety of pay models and also a wide variety of wage relationships. It is not possible to find any general or mostly valid relationship, nor can the evaluation of an individual profession in a selected country be a criterion or reference for the evaluation of the same profession in Slovenia, so we need to find our original solutions in many ways. I said it was supposed to be a gradual marriage. As of March 2001, a document was presented "the starting point for the drafting of a law on the public sector wage system". In June 2001, the government adopted "variant 2" as the basis for the drafting of the law; in October it adopted a bill, which was then also presented to the unions, and in December 2001 began to coordinate the text of the law with the coordination of trade unions in non-economic activities. And it also signed a special agreement on the participation of trade unions in the formation not only of law, but also of the creation of a whole system of public sector wages. The key points of this agreement are that both sides, the government and the unions, should make commitments to speed up the work of the coordinating groups by trying to achieve the highest possible degree of harmonisation of the law for the second time considered in the National Assembly. I must inform you that coordination work is going on very intensively; that the nine-to-morrow tenth coordination or coordination meeting of four to six hours has already been carried out in these two months, and that it is also increasing, particularly in the last period, the level of harmonisation of the law. By, of course, continuing coordination after the first reading in Parliament or until the end of the harmonisation of the law in the National Assembly. Allow me now to summarize very briefly the key objectives and content of the law. The law establishes a common pay system for civil servants and officials. That's his main novelty. On the one hand, the law provides for a more appropriate relationship between the salaries of public servants and officials. Although the proposal for a first-reading law proposes an up-to-date wage relationship, the debate will show - partnership with trade unions as well as in the National Assembly - to what extent we will be able to change these changes in the course of the law-making process. Of course, the aim of the law is also to establish a more motivational, more flexible pay system. So a system that will be more linked to efficiency and performance. The aim of the law is also more transparent, i.e. more transparent and also more fiscally manageable. The content of the law relates to clarification of key concepts. In fact, for the purposes of this law it is defined: the concept of the public sector, the concept of a public servant, the notion of systematisation of jobs, a job, a name, a complexity of the job; in particular, the terms which are new: what is a payee, a professional group, a salary scale, a salary class and a salary structure that includes such basic salary, part of the salary for performance and allowances. The public sector is defined in the same way as in the Public Servants Act. In the public sector, public agencies, funds, public institutions and other persons of public law who are indirect consumers of the national budget or of the local community budget are also covered by the public sector. However, the concept of the public sector is not covered by this law - which means that they are excluded from this system - by: public companies and public companies or additional banks of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I'm not going to explain the concept of a public servant in any way. It may be useful to define the concept of the complexity of the job, which is one of the basic concepts. It relies on the required competence, on the required responsibility and powers, on the psychophysical and mental efforts and on the environmental impacts. Demand is a key determinant of the classification of jobs and functions in individual classes. The law relies on a pay scale of 68 classes with a range of 4% and a classification within pay groups and professional groups. Only wage class classification is left to the implementing part of the law and will be partially implemented through collective agreements on non-economics, partly through sectoral collective agreements and partly through government regulations or by a special decree of the national assembly. The law provides for 10 wage groups, 34 occupational groups and 9 tariff groups. In order not to be too long, the law contains a particular chapter on progress, where it also relies on the law on civil servants, and in addition lays down certain restrictions on this progress. The Act deals specifically with the chapter on performance, which sets out the limits and conditions for obtaining an occupational performance allowance, especially for those who also acquire funds on the market with the consent of the founder, and in particular for those who implement a rationalisation programme on the basis of which wage savings are achieved. The issue of supplements is one of the areas where the news is the most. As I said, from over 80 additions, the number has fallen to 7; in fact, discussions with partners show that this chapter is one of the most controversial or likely to be subject to significant changes. It seems particularly important to me to highlight Chapter 7, which is a chapter on the process of changing the ranges and relationships. This chapter is intended to ensure the cessation of the practice so far when partial payments have been made in individual parts of the public sector through additions or other ways of raising wages and this has resulted in such or different imbalances. The new procedure provides for a specific coordinating body of all national authorities and for the coordination of trade unions, this is the Wage System and Policy Council. In particular, I would like to highlight the chapter on transparency and comparability, which provides a legal basis for methodological uniform monitoring and for the creation of an information database on public sector wages. All this time is gone and it is impossible for the government to effectively manage or negotiate with the social partners on the basis of the right information. In the transitional and final provisions, we propose that the law should apply from 1.1.2004. I would like to summarize by seeing a timetable for the adoption of implementing acts like this. Among the social partners, the harmonised methodology for job classification by the end of this year, as well as by the end of this year's methodology or the relevant sub-legislative rules governing progress and performance, and by May 2003 we envisage the adoption of a collective contract for the public sector as an implementing, as well as an act of system law which should include so-called career orientations by occupational groups and which should also provide for supplements. By November 2003, the collective agreements of activities and the government regulation for the specific classification of jobs and functions in individual classes. A brief summary of what we're cutting off from the current system. We're shutting down the two payroll systems that now apply to civil servants and officials, and we're setting up one ourselves. We abolish the basic coefficients and so-called fixed allowances, both for public servants and for officials, and we transfer this part to the evaluation of the individual function or its classification or place of employment in the payroll. The starting salary for non-economic activities and the so-called parliamentary base shall be abolished, but a single salary scale shall be set up and assigned to nominal gross amounts. It also eliminates the monthly payout for work performance, which has practically stepped down with a different salary and is introduced an annual bonus, an annual reward for the most successful, or for those who achieve an average of not more than two gross wages. In short, we introduce a total salary scale, a nominal basic salary and an annual salary payment for work performance. If you'll allow me just a brief comment on the debate so far. The Internal Policy Committee has adopted 34 views. The proposer will examine these views. He has also studied them and shows that they can be taken into account in a substantial way in furthering the second treatment law. We will also follow the task of drawing up a diagram showing and describing the process of progress of the public servant, as well as a detailed timetable for the transition to a new wage system in the public sector. In particular, we have examined and will take into account further the position of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and the Council of State, which, like the Committee on Internal Policy and also as the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, has decided to support the law for further consideration. I propose, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and Members, that such a decision be taken by you. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Minister. It's almost 1:00, so I'm finishing the morning part. At 2.30 p.m., we continue with this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u123	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, distinguished guests! We continue with the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 13th session on 27.2.2002: Maria Possonec, Franc Čebulj and Jožef Školč, for the afternoon part of the session. Since we're going to find out the presence, I'm asking you for your attention, and everyone else who's around, and they're going to join us, because if appearances don't deceive me, we probably won't be enough. We're detecting a presence. That there are 28 of us here, but that's not true. Next time we figure out the presence. May I have your attention, please? We're detecting a presence. Since we are not at the conclusion of the second determination of our presence, we cannot make a valid decision. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I hereby adjourn the meeting for 10 minutes. We'll resume at 2.50 p.m. I'd like to ask you to continue with your work at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u124	This is the third time we'll be able to determine the presence in the hall, so I respectfully ask you to join us. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, for the third time, we will determine our presence, so I ask your attention. There's enough of us in the hall. We're detecting a presence. There are 55 Members and Members present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. In the morning work, Mr Minister presented us with a proposal for a bill on the public sector wage system. I now ask the Committee on Internal Policy, as its parent working body, to present to us the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the board, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz. Here you go. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u125	I'll start when the neighbors calm down. First of all, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Secretariat, as well as of the opinion of the Committee of the National Health Council, the work, the family, the social policy and the disabled, the opinion of the Committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on social activities, the comments of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, the comments of the Association of Secretaries of Slovenian Communities, the proposals and views of the Police Union and the arrangements between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coordination of trade unions of non-economic activities. As today, the Minister of the Interior, Dr Rado Bohinc, gave an introductory explanation at the meeting of the Committee. The report shows that we have also had a different presentation of the law or, above all, these last annexes, which you have here, which are actually just a summary of the situation; this has been shown even more plastically with the help of the tools. As has already been pointed out, it has been pointed out or emphasized that the law has been in existence for quite some time and that intensive negotiations are also taking place with the coordination of trade unions. Then we were informed of the ease of understanding with some of the opinions of some representatives. The first to be mentioned is the opinion of the representative of the secretariat, which is unfortunately, as he has pointed out many times before, that the text of the law is not complete. In fact, the comment concerns Annex 3 and the other two annexes, which are of course not definitive. The secretariat also considers, in its explanation, that there is no appropriate explanation for the proposal for a law, since it does not contain reasons and explanations for each article. I must say this because it seems to me that all too often on our committee there are legislative proposals that do not meet all of the rules of procedure of the National Assembly of Commanded Components or at least not in such a form that they can be satisfied with. So the representative of the secretariat stressed what many debaters are then, and what was also decided in some way already in this National Assembly, that this is one of the laws in the field of public administration and it is therefore to be expected that these procedures will continue so that all laws can be looked at together and thus get the full picture. It must then be said that the Committee has waited one day for the Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy to treat this law as an interested labour body and, by means of them, we have been informed by the representative of the Committee that the Committee supports the adoption of this law, as it has assessed that the current system is uncoordinated, opaque and therefore, of course, supports the adoption of the law. They also stressed that they seemed somewhat unrealistic to expect that the share of wages would not increase. They also pointed out the co-existence of dealing mainly with the law on civil servants and the law on the system of wages. It should then be said that the representative of the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia considered that social activities were not a suitable basis for dealing with the law in such a way. Also because, if you do, marriage is not compatible with the social partners. A representative of the Slovenian Judicial Society also participated, who had doubts mainly about Article 9, where he left the classification of individual functions to be carried out in the wage classes by decree. However, they believe that the system of judicial salaries should only be regulated by law. Likewise, I will say that the opinion of the Association of Secretaries of Slovenian municipalities should be presented. These had two comments as key comments. The first is one that is somehow difficult for us in the committee, and this is that in cases where laws are passed or laws are drawn up in the field of local communities, there is not enough cooperation with them. So that some cooperation is likely to be, but this is precisely what they saw as a key flaw in the formation of this law. The representative of the trade union, education, education and science of Slovenia stressed that the proposal for a law for employees in this segment of our society is unacceptable, if too much of a reference to sub-laws and methodologies, collective agreements and therefore, in their opinion, does not allow a comprehensive view of the new pay system. The representative of the university union pointed out the problem of the broken salary ratio of teachers and non-pedagogical workers within the university. Similarly, the representative of the FIDES trade union, the medical union and dentists, felt that the proposal of the law was flawed in that part, which was also most often commented on and I explained to you that we had a chance to see it differently, and this is a summary of the situation. In fact, she claimed that there was no doctor with a count of 9. So that the highest rate achieved by the doctor is only, that is to say, a specialist doctor, only 7.2. Even if there's no success in health care. Then a representative of the Union of State and Social Authorities participated in the debate and took the lead in this basic objective of the law, which is to unify the system of wages. And he warned them that their union would continue to participate constructively in the formation of this law. A representative of the Gloss Union, a cultural union, also participated, who felt that the law had not yet matured, that all coordination had to be done first and only then could we get to the first reading. In particular, he pointed out Article 13 of the Law, which allows for each group, in their view, which has sufficient social power and influence to make such a decision on the basic salary as it would be appropriate for them. I would like to put the debate of the members of the committee in line with the following. Thus, it is clear from the decisions presented, which are somewhat similar to those of other laws and, in particular, from the viewpoints or from the very number of views, that the members of the committee have already studied the law thoroughly before. So that they considered practically in all segments that it would be necessary to complete it. Of course, there was also a view that the law was not a suitable basis, but the general decision was that the law was necessary and, of course, the Committee also adopted a proposal for conclusions. The first counts: the law is a suitable basis. And secondly, when preparing the law for second reading, the proposer should take into account or, of course, say why he did not take it into account - I think it is - 34 views. At the end of the debate, the Committee allowed itself, therefore, to propose to the National Assembly some additional decisions, which were the last of them, i.e. on the 8th page of the report. But all conclusions, as you can see, are about getting as complete a picture as possible of the same creation as some of the substantive matters of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. First, the opinion of the Socialist Party of Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr France Cukjat, then Mr Jelinčič and beyond as you report. Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Wages are certainly one of the central things about which the life of most Slovenians or all of them revolves. And the public sector certainly covers a large part of the Slovenians, and this law is therefore extremely important. If we list it from the beginning to the end, then we run into some problems in the cities, problems that we might consider: "Well, since this can be fixed to the second treatment, no harm, no one expects the first reading of the text to be complete." Let's go to the surface, very briefly, just the key questions. Article 2 concerns what the public sector is, what the indirect user is. Look out! If this law applies to indirect users, it also applies to that indirect user, who may be only 10% funded from the state budget, and is also an indirect user. And if we move forward, this article lacks the definition of "public servant", what a public servant is - an extremely important definition. You'll say so, because we're about to have a law on civil servants. Yeah, then let's wait for this law and define there all of this groundwork to be upgraded with the question of wages. The next very problematic article is already Article 4. The fourth paragraph states that "the amount of basic salaries from the salary scale is normally adjusted once a year". This is no such tragedy, but otherwise the level of coordination is agreed between the social partners - very commendable. That each time the amount of basic wages is determined by law. That is, the height that should have been previously coordinated. I wonder, what if the alignment doesn't happen? The State may find that it has made its financial contribution, that the budget gap, that the debt of the country has grown so much and will not be brought into line for a short period of time. And then, of course, the amount of basic salaries will not be corrected. And each year's inflation will save 8% of public sector wages. A very dangerous, very criminal provision, which I believe has not been brought into line with the social partners. For if we commit ourselves in advance to coordinate with the social partners, then I wonder why we have not already agreed on the starting point, the starting point, which is so important. We do not have to go far to face the problem of Article 6. The list of jobs, titles and functions referred to in the last paragraph of Article 6 shall be established by means of regulations, general acts or collective agreements, which shall be published by the Government. This is said to be the case, in most cases, a list of jobs can be established by the government. And, of course, then to rephrase Article 11, where it is said who will determine the methodology for the classification of jobs and titles. You'd expect the methodology to be here in law and we'd accept it. Not that we say, "We'll build a building, what this building will be like, but we'll leave it to the government." We don't like to buy a cat in a jacket, in which case we're offered a cat in a jacket. That is, it certainly gives this article too much power to the government, namely, powers that are not linked to coordination with the social partners, to those coordinations that we committed to in this national assembly four years ago, so that all documents that are relevant to the standard, for our welfare, to the economic standard of the inhabitants, in order to regulate consensus with the social partners. While on the committee, the minister promised that this harmonisation would take place after prior harmonisation with the unions. That's what he promised. We'd like that promise to be written in marriage. Then, of course, Article 13 comes, where it is again stated that an increase or reduction in the basic salary will be possible on the basis of a higher or lower burden than the normal workload. But nowhere is it said who will determine it, by what key, and how it will be handled. It's not said anywhere! And of course then a type of exemption in Article 16, paragraph 4, which allows for a type of exemption. Members we have received, as well as you have received, a number of comments from other, indirect or also direct consumers of the state budget, which prove that they are eligible for inclusion in these exceptions. I do not know why the Ministry has so far not taken these exceptions into account; this is not mentioned anywhere in the explanation. In Article 20, the level of resources for the payment of labour performance is. Here it is said that this volume represents 5% of the annual basic salary appropriations. It is later said and the law provides that these resources will be determined each year in the light of available budgetary resources. So, on the one hand, we commit ourselves to 5%, and on the other hand, we give the government free hands to put its poor economic policy back on the shoulders of public sector workers. And, of course, there is again a series of these provisions, which we do not know who is responsible for them, who will set them up, when, under what circumstances. For example, Article 28: Allowances for less favourable working conditions - who determines this? It is not said that this is provided for in the collective agreement. Load Supplements - Who determines this? It says, no more than 5%. Article 31 states that the allowances for work are in a less favourable working time, where the full-time and on-call work is also indicated. I don't know any other shifts myself. By international conventions and by European standards, duty is working time. And here he's given some weird status that we don't know where it belongs. Health care is based on European criteria - of course, which we will have to accept, if not earlier, by entering the European Union - into the last indent of paragraph 1, which is full-time work. And, of course, once again, I ask myself, in Article 31 concerning the additions referred to in this Article for less favourable conditions or for less favourable working hours, it will again be stipulated by a government regulation, without coordination, without a collective agreement, which means a solution to both sides' consensus. Again, Article 33 states that this should be accompanied by a public sector wage policy or wage policy, which should be accompanied by a public sector system and wage policy in which representatives of state authorities, the coordination of trade unions and so on are expected to be. We would also like this law to draw up such coordination or to find this law consistent with the social partners. For we were asked by the social partners not to support such a text, which concludes that there has been no harmonisation. And of course then the 50th article, which has a series of very, very questionable issues. There it is said, see, at the end of the last article of this law, it says that the law will apply from 1.1.2004 and here it is already an intervention in 2002, in May of this year and says that from 1 May of this year it will continue to be paid as a premium for collective voluntary supplementary pension insurance, the additions in previous articles. And then, of course, we ask ourselves here, what about those who don't agree with voluntary insurance? Because voluntary insurance is voluntary and cannot be imposed by a labor union. What about him? With the additions in the five articles, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, will they be added? And, of course, a number of other things. As I mentioned, the transition period is badly solved, not solved. The implementing acts are set out in the text, and can be seen on careful reading of what these implementing acts are. That is: a single methodology for job classification, a collective contract for the public sector, a regulation or a decree of the National Council for the Classification of Jobs or the Titles of the Wages Group, a government regulation on conditions for progress and so on. We would also like one such law to lay down the obligations of which by law and by when and by who is obliged to adopt them. Let me finish. So we would like such a law, which is extremely important for social peace, which is, in fact, a heart of great unrest or satisfaction, as much as a lasting satisfaction, to find such a law, of course, a consensus, for which the National Assembly - as I said - decided and ordered the government at that time to reach consensus in such cases. If there is no consensus, the bill would be obliged to indicate how long the coordination took, why there has not been harmonisation, which issues are still open. In short, I would like to indicate the direction of further coordination. And, of course, we'd need a law on civil servants first, and then we'd have to pay. But I would like to mention another problem in which it appears that this experiment is somehow unfortunate. In fact, with this law, we again set the system of pay extremely narrow, hard, this system. That's an extremely little maneuverable space. Let me tell you what this means for health care, for doctors. Well, that's the problem I know the most, and not so many others. You know that the individual clinic, the image of the clinic, the quality of the individual clinic, depends on one or two people. Because: who performed cardiology in Slovenia - Košak. Who picked up the plastic? One, two men. We're a small nation, at clinics gives an image of one, two doctors, one, two, tops. In the Slovenian space. They are not directors, they have none - they will fall into this law as well. This means not to get, of course, any other tips that would come to work with us, to teach young doctors, but to get away from us as soon as the borders are open and the labor force will be free. Believe me, that's what's going on right now. Let me mention that in a way every doctor is the director of a company called 2,000 patients or a thousand patients and their medical conditions. For with his own responsibility, the doctor makes a diagnosis, sets up therapy, bears all the responsibility for this project, all the responsibility, but under this law he will be a public servant and will be paid just like everyone else. And the hospital director won't have any mechanism to handle it the way it should. You may have heard from the provinces, perhaps from the bad side, about a project to develop a health management system, namely a project costing over 6 billion dollars; a project financed by the World Bank for Development. This project, as a heart of action, includes the enforcement of quality elements in health care. It is said that the work of the doctor will be measured - the criterion - and that some mechanism will be set up where the quality of the individual part of the health care provider can be quickly determined; there are other carriers, including physiotherapists and the image. And, of course, this project includes as an urgent consequence that an individual health care provider will be paid according to the quality of his work - according to the quality of his work. And by doing so, we break the project, and I would suggest that if the law were to be passed, that we should also adopt the law, that we should stop doing this project, because then it would be pointless - to introduce the quality of work in health without relaxing or allowing this quality to be otherwise financed, that the responsible have free hands in terms of rewards and so on. In view of many things, we note that this law cannot be rectified until the second reading, both in individual articles, and it will probably be necessary to write a new text in a consensus with the social partners, taking into account all the other comments that have come to the national assembly on good grounds. Therefore, our Group of Members will not support this text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Not long ago, Drnovšk's coalition government regulated payment systems in a way that satisfied the one who was louder, the one who was more liquid, the one who was more distasteful. Those public services that put more pressure on Prime Minister Drnovsk received better wages, ratings and so on. Now we have for the first time a law that intends to make order in this area. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the proposal for a law on the public sector wage system is the right basis for the production of a pay system in the Republic of Slovenia in the public domain. But we certainly feel that there will be a lot more to be done. It is a good foundation, but it will be necessary for the Ministry of the Interior to take into account all 34 positions of the Internal Policy Committee, which it has given as its parent labour, and also a number of the views which have been heard today in this debate. On long and wide, I do not intend to repeat certain matters already written in the position of the Internal Policy Committee. Nor do I intend to repeat some of the things that have already been said or said by fellow Members. But I'm sure there are some questions. First of all, there are questions at VI. the chapter on additives. For example, if we take Article 28, which refers to additives for less favourable working conditions. This article allows for a 5% increase in the basic salary, but nowhere in this law nor anywhere else is the possibility of the benefit of working time, which is certainly necessary to be taken into account in certain public services. I think that at least those officers working on the ground are entitled to a well-favoured work internship, as well as those customs officers who work in the field. If we compare Article 28 and Article 29, which gives everyone a maximum of 5% of the basic salary, this is 10%, which is inconsistent with Article 30, which states that the amount of all the allowances referred to in Articles 28 and 29 of the Act must not exceed 15% of the basic salary. Five and five is usually ten. I don't think there's anything else. I'm kind of upset that in article 30 there's a possibility of up to 15%. Does the Ministry intend to pre-calculate certain other certifications and other additions that might go beyond this law? We do not agree with this and propose to the Ministry that this matter be settled in an appropriate manner or explain why this has occurred. It's an interesting article 25 - A supplement for mentoring. Here in mentoring, it should be taken into account a very interesting matter that, say, at universities, at the University of Ljubljana, certain professors of mentoring, which are paid once or twice as much as basic salaries when they graduate from students or masters or PhDs. Here I hope that this article will regulate these relations, not to the detriment of knowledge and to the detriment of the quality of diplomas, master's degrees and doctorates, but that this matter will be regulated in accordance with other segments of the public sector. In Article 27, we are talking about a bilingual allowance which says that the amount of the bilingual allowance is determined by a collective contract for the public sector. I'd like to ask the Ministry what bilinguality means now. I think you thought, given the areas where bilingualism is guaranteed under the Constitution. This is said to be the area of the Italian or Hungarian minority. However, I ask you how you will then define if someone who is not in these premises in the service and also speaks one of the minorities or even both minority languages, especially to take the opportunity for an employee to speak in addition to these two languages or even in the two languages of the world, three, four or so. There should also be some refinements here. We are still at Chapter 6 on additives. If we take into consideration Article 23, which deals with the situational allowances and Article 31, which discusses allowances for work in less favourable working hours, together, of course, with Articles 28 and 29, then the question arises, which concerns directly 90 members of the national assembly. That's what you call a member of the National Assembly. We're Members of Parliament working through any timetable. We're working Saturday, Sunday. It's also an extraordinary meeting at night. And yet we don't belong anywhere. We don't belong in the Labour Relations Act. We don't judge. It looks like this marriage. Therefore, it might be very reasonable to adopt a law on Members to regulate this matter as soon as possible. Finally, if the former Minister of the Interior, Mr Bavcar, had been able to retire almost 4,000 police officers overnight, no matter what kind of financial contribution this was for the country, I think that if 90 Members had retired in four years, it is still no longer more than 27 Members per year. And yet, as we can see, the possibility of retiring individual Members in each term by number would be, I think, a maximum of 10. That's four years old. This means 2.5 per year of mandate, which would not burden the state budget. However, it would certainly help to improve the work of the National Assembly, since in this case it would not be necessary to subject itself to the current shortcomings of the leaders of the Group or of the directives under the direction of the Party or of the Government, which then requires Members to vote in one way or another. And if they do not vote, they fall out of the National Assembly at the next term, and then, like some former Members, they are still looking for a job since 1996. I think that this is also one of the issues that the Ministry of the Interior may have to deal with and correct or clarify certain articles. Above all, I think it is necessary to make this an appeal as soon as possible to adopt a law on Members to settle these matters. In general, the Slovenian National Party supports both the intent of the law and the fact that the proposed law, of course, takes into account all the proposals contained in the letter from the Internal Policy Committee, as well as from the debate, is a good basis for adoption into the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u131	Madam Vice President! Dear Mr. Secretary! Dear government officials! A respected choir! I think we agree that the current legislation on public sector wages is excessive, opaque, uncoordinated, in short, inappropriate. How to get a better law, how to establish a common payment system and at the end stage, how to ensure that public finances are managed, is also a major issue for the ruling coalition. As early as 2000, the government had decided to give special attention to wage issues in a special law. There have been many debates and a number of analyses have been taken. The social partners were interviewed, but the coordination did not end. Thus, there is only agreement to continue coordination in the process of enacting the law. The proposal we have before us does not save what we want to do, for to a greater extent it does not. Moreover, we note that the proposal is formally incomplete and does not comply with the business arrangements. The text is also incomplete and does not provide a comprehensive view of the regulation of the entire service relationship system. We're missing appropriate simulations on the basis of which it would be easier to make decisions. The proposal also points to the need for a whole range of sub-legislative acts, regulations and collective agreements. The text of both important laws, i.e. the Law on Public Servants, which is a fundamental law and the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, is not harmonised, not by content or by deadline. Therefore, the reasoned opinion of the secretariat on legislation, which draws attention to all these shortcomings of the proposal, is certainly on the ground. We believe that it is not a realistic assessment that the new law will not increase budgetary resources. The password that no one can get less than so far is extremely misleading. If the applicant really wants to establish a relationship, it will certainly be necessary to increase some wages. It also raises the question of who is involved in this law at all. Doctors do not see in this system, judges insist that they are underpaid, the proposal is not acceptable to employees in education, science and culture. Specifically. Pursuant to Article 6 of the Law, staff members shall be classified in groups A to J, according to the activity in which they are employed. This means that a graduate lawyer who, after a professional examination as a judge, starts with a salary in the 39th grade. If I were to get a job as a teacher, I'd get an initial salary after the 24th grade. As a teacher, he would achieve as much salary as a new five-year-old judge of the common working age only at the end of his career when he reached the highest, that is the 39th grade of pay. Similar differences also apply in other activities. Apparently, a caste system is being prepared in contravention of the principles of fairness by which wages should be determined on a uniform basis, according to the expertise, complexity and difficulty of work. We propose that a job should be assigned to a particular wage class according to uniform criteria, not discriminatory as provided for in Article 12 for different activities. Veterinary experts also believe that they need to be addressed in a specific section, due to the complexity, character and importance of the works they perform, since their activity is almost exclusively a protection to health. They want to be listed in the table of activities and specific professions. The same is true of foresters and other specific professions that are properly regulated in Europe. What about the employee and the public servant? We believe that these two concepts should also be defined in Article 2. Article 5, paragraph 5, is not in line with the law on pension and disability insurance, under which workers in the individual employer decide on their own collective insurance. Therefore, it is not the right arrangement for a representative union to decide that workers in a particular employer will be included in collective pension insurance and thus have lower salaries. The provisions of the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 20 may also cause disruptions to the functioning of the State administration, as individual national authorities will be rewarded for working outside their work cycle or for reducing the scope of their work below the level proposed for the budget. It would be a misplanning award. Because of all these uncertainties and inconsistencies and inconsistencies, I also mentioned some of them, in our parliamentary group, Novi Slovenije, we believe that the proposal is not a good enough basis for the second treatment and therefore we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Joint Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the debates held so far in the home labour system, and this is likely to be the case today, we all agree that the current system of wage regulation in the public sector is not adequate. We note that in 1994 a law on wage relations in the public sector was not able to ensure that public sector wages were comparable in individual activities in order to ensure the necessary harmonisation in order to make the system as a whole manageable. On the contrary, after the adoption of this law, we have seen that, with separate arrangements within the framework of individual activities without a common system, the system itself has become increasingly fragmented, disrupted, discontented, and at different intervals of time, various increases which have repeatedly caused some other part of the public sector to be dissatisfied. These findings, which are likely to be shared quickly and agreed with each other, will raise the question of what to do. It is likely that everyone who has participated in the wage-making system in any way in the company or in a wider way is aware that this is one of the most challenging areas, that it concerns so directly the interests of each individual and each group, that it is extremely difficult to find solutions that are satisfactory for all and that there are certain compromises on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it is not possible to find a system that would, in the first stage and fully satisfy everything. In our parliamentary group, we believe that, until now after 1994, despite many promises, it has not been possible to regulate the country, now more radically, more decisively, in the direction of regulating the wage system in the public sector. We do not make illusions that this will be easy, nor illusions, that the pre-prepared system will be ideal, but we do not accept the conclusion that it would be good to prepare the system, but we do not know when and how we will do it. In preparing the concept, the government has come from the point of view that it is wise and right to draft a law that will gradually also regulate concrete wage relations and concrete wages. In his interview with his mother's working body, the Minister said that this was actually more procedural than a material law, that this was more a law governing how we would get to the pay system after 1.1.2004 than that we would have already set all wage ratios. Perhaps it is from these findings that the government has decided, on many complex issues, a path which does not give every individual and every activity a final answer, but which has a few more chances of being adopted on this path, but not that it will be fully established, but that it will be decided on a different path and say, "Now each individual salary, each individual activity, every internal relationship, must be determined in those details and details, where everyone will see what his actual salary will be according to the new system." I'm afraid it would be more difficult to do this in one stroke than to predict the procedures that we'll come up with at some point in time. For this reason, we, as proposed, accept, believe and know that there will be much more to be done for its realization, in the three stages of the preparation of the law itself and much more so after this law has been implemented. However, if we do not step this way or this way, we will not have a system. We believe that such an approach must also be supported for reasons, because it will provide the possibility of creating a pay system for all employees paid from public funds and eliminating the various pay systems currently in force in the public sector; because it will ensure public, transparency and comparability between public sector salaries, which is absolutely necessary, because we know that so far, especially transparency and comparability have not been achieved, and that, in many ways, we ourselves, when we requested data, we have not been able to obtain the most appropriate data. We support it because we believe that it will create the basis for possible high-quality foundations for social bargaining on public sector wages, with the same database and with the same starting points, and thus gradually contribute to the elimination of the differences that are currently widely unacceptable. In addition, it is likely that it will enable it to be adequately manageable and realistic within the necessary public resources. Let me put it this way. We are aware that a good system can be designed in as much agreement as possible with the affected, and therefore we support all efforts to prepare the law in as much coordination as possible with the social partners. I think that in some ways we have the moral right to stress this principle also because, in the previous term of office, our parliamentary group was the one who, for the laws seeking social partnership, demanded that the government, when submitting the law, also indicate to what extent the agreement and agreement with the social partners has been reached on how the reconciliations have taken place so far, where the essential differences are and why. In this direction, it seems important to us that an agreement on the intention to harmonise the law on the public sector wage system is signed between the social partners on 7 February this year. However, it seems important to us also to set out the 5th point of this agreement, which says that we will also be at the next stage, which is the second reading of the law, to have a declaration of the extent of compliance under the articles and to see what progress has been made in the drafting of the law. Our future course of action will surely depend on it or will depend on it. Secondly, the positions that have been drawn up in the labour force remind the government of the open issues that have so far been raised in the debate with the social partners, as well as in the public and professional sectors. I believe that the government will have a difficult task when it has to identify itself to these positions. However, the appropriate definition in the second reading law will give us a basis for making decisions. These two assure us that it is right to support the law at first reading, otherwise we will not find further ways and solutions to address this difficult problem. And if I may, just a sentence in my personal name. I have proposed the addition of one point of view, in the desire that many professional groups, which are not yet seen in the law, be defined as those which, in the context of the amendment of the law itself for the second treatment, the Government should be appropriately included in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. The following views of the youth group will be presented by a fellow Diaca. I invite you to the stage, Comrade Diaca. We will also conclude with you the general presentation of the parliamentary groups. Kolga Barovic is the first Member to be declared after colleague Diacja. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we will not support the law on the system of public sector wages at first reading, such as it is before us. However, we support changes in the system at the principal level. The area of wages is now regulated by the Wage Relations Act, which is complemented by more than 40 different rules and acts, causing irregularity, opacity and inequity of this system. We therefore agree with the Government that this area needs to be regulated by a single law involving all civil servants. We also agree that there is a need to create a law that will allow mechanisms for changing the pay-as-you-go ratios within the pay system, thus eliminating a huge number of various supplements, which in the past have increased the wages of certain groups of public servants, resulting in difficult controls and transparency in the mass of wages. However, it is wrong for the government to re-send an unfinished and uncoordinated law. That the law is true, it has already proved to be on the Home Committee for Internal Policy and the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities, where he has had a gruesome debate and many criticisms. Although the Committees considered that the law was a suitable basis for the first reading, a large number of additional decisions and opinions were adopted, which only proves that the law was not yet drawn up and that it has many shortcomings. The government says that dialogues with workers' unions in the public administration are under way and that the agreements it will reach through the amendments will enter into law in the second reading. And here's the problem. It seems to us that we will get the Labour Relations Act back where the government did not negotiate with the unions until the law was confirmed at first reading, and then in the next legislative process, we faced a huge number of, in particular, government amendments. The dialogue, which should take place mainly between trade unions and the government, by submitting such a law to the first reading, causes this dialogue to sit down at a committee meeting in the National Assembly and meetings with parliamentary groups, where union representatives try to convince members of the amendments to the law. This law is intended to make the salaries of public servants more transparent, but the proposal we have before us has a whole series of articles requiring the adoption of new sub-legislative acts. Was that not what the government wanted to avoid with this law? Feared that these acts would allow for the departure of the outposted system, the secretariat also expressed its concern about legislation and legal matters. The Secretariat also draws attention to the non-compliance with the Law on Public Servants, which is supposed to be the fundamental law governing the service relationship. The Wage System Act is intended to regulate the wage system of employees in the public sector. These two laws should be urgently coordinated both in terms of terminology and, above all, in terms of content, in order to have a comprehensive view of the system. It also raises the question of the level of expenditure of the budget to be incurred by this law. The government argues that the adoption of this law will not increase the budgetary expenditure for the salaries of public servants, while ensuring that none of the employees will receive less than they have received so far and introduce a wide range of budget users who will increase their salaries. It also raises the question of increasing the salaries of employees in those activities for which these increases have already been agreed and should be implemented in the coming years. The fact is that in terms of stability, public sector jobs are relatively more stable than in the private sector. From this point of view, stability is linked to a lower risk and consequently to a lower yield. The higher risk and higher profitability and the associated lower stability are the characteristics of the real sector. And these principles must also be followed by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you very much, colleague Diaci. Mr Brenčič will present the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, based on the existing state of affairs, which in the public sector wage system is completely broken down and, depending on the structure or cuts of the state budget and the ratio of public funds required for the share of public sector payments, we certainly expected a different approach, not only by the Ministry, but a comprehensive approach by the government to a kind, better said as law, reform, or a project to rebuild the public sector system, both through the public service system and through the public sector wage system. We find that the adoption of this law is in considerable time pressure, which is not good. As difficult a matter as this law brings, as it is present in the entire public sector system, it is impossible to resolve in the long term in some time-consuming way. But basically, one thing is true. By no means should we leave all too much of the concept or purpose of the law in the implementation of acts outside the law, both the methodologies, both the rules and the tables. All too much material is transferred by this law to matter outside the law, outside the specific form that the articles must bring. This is a big trap for setting up a system of partial or influential decision-making, a certain participation of the wages of a professional or professional group, which has been shown to be very bad in practice so far. This is a big trap, so I think that the second-reading proposal will have to be more specific to the content or to bring it into law, both with regard to employees and officials. These two statuses, including the relationship to the roof law, if I tell him so, about working relationships, are very different and will need to be finalized by this law. If we just leave it in general like this, there's going to be something quick about a strong dispersion. Of course, we do not support this approach in essence. So, on the one hand, we can say that simplified solutions to an area that is so demanding that it needs to be strongly, I would say, public consultation through the establishment of a partnership dialogue, although it is difficult to establish, but from a country that will have to provide sooner or later, and the only major responsibility will be the social status of citizens, this partnership is necessary. In this law, it must certainly be achieved at least as much as in the Labour Relations Act, even more appropriate for the government than the Labour Relations Act, which is only a different law because it saves the entire spectrum, including the real sector. This, of course, makes it possible for the applicant, given the number of discussions both on the working body concerned and on the working body and through the number of positions taken, to give the content and concept of the law for the second reading a strong definition. In any case, we are in the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members for this law to be strongly consulted on the public impact of certain expert institutions, from universities and so on, to various institutes. These arguments should be taken into account and a proper framework should be found for the normative establishment of the law. In any case, I think that the applicant must be interested that, when the law for second reading is somehow drafted in the proposal, it is designed to project itself, and must project it, a simulation of what this law means in the final stage, in the impact on the required volume of public money and in the relationship, as this law would say, would reflect on the existing broken relationship. Do not be afraid of the proposer if these relations with the bill are put into a different relationship or content. If there is an argument behind it, a partnership dialogue will also result in agreement and validation in practice. As it is said, we will support the law in the parliamentary group, but we know that the work to prepare the content and the concept for the second reading is so much that the proposer does not succumb to a time-consuming burden, which fosters both an annex and a promise. It is better to prepare this material so that it will no longer fail at the start than to fulfill a promise now that perhaps it would be better to meet it in six months with better content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. Members and Members shall have the floor. Only Mr Bogdan Barovic has notified himself of the unlimited debate; the debate is limited to five minutes. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Even though I have applied for a timeless debate, I will try to be brief, because the 12th regular, 13th extraordinary days, if I am not mistaken, and the 13th regular sessions are dragging each other along, and I believe that we are all tired together. I therefore reiterate that, like you, I think time is very important. Dear representatives of the Ministry of the Interior! On the one hand, I envy that you have tried to bite into such a hard and sour apple as the arrangement of the pay system, but in the good sense of the word, because if we think about it rationally, it actually took time. I see because I know things a little bit more - I have had the opportunity to work with the Institute for Economic Marketing and Organisation in this area - that the key problem and reason for creating a new law, which, of course, also has enough time to create quality, although the objectives are listed differently, is to limit or reduce supplements. In fact, 80 and even more supplements, as many as we have added, have exceeded basic wages. So in the public sector, you probably all agree with me, and here I also have to confirm to my colleague, Dr. Tsukati, that there are situations where people actually worked for the extras, not the wages. The imbalance is compared to two, three, four profiles, but if we take the Prime Minister, the Member, the President of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the specialist doctor, the university professor, the associate professor, the additions were precisely due to dissatisfaction with these profiles, which all belong to the public sector. In fact, it has been a recent time for this to be done, for if it were not for more than 100 or more supplements in a year or two, that would consistently equalize or regulate discontent and these relationships. Of course, now that we are establishing a common pay system for civil servants and officials, the problem will arise on the ground. If the drafters of the law base on such a starting point that all those listed, namely the public sector, the public agency, public funds, public institutions and other persons of public law, will be satisfied on a basic basis, then I am sure that, at the precise examination and all that the colleagues have already said, in cooperation with the institutes, universities and experts, the new pay system will start. If these basic starting points are not achieved, the basic relations will be achieved, so will the Members of this Assembly and the Members of the next General Assembly. So allow me to join my colleagues here, who have stressed, once again, I also stress the need for a second reading, if, of course, this proposal for a law is adopted in the first reading, the actual tailor is going to do this work very, very well, by coordinating the social partners. If there are basic starting points, once again, I stress the right and the right, then the law will be good. The law is now in the first reading, as far as I have been able to study it and as far as I know the content, somewhat incomplete in the area of additives. Indeed, many will wish or rightly request new supplements, and many will be set up, which are listed on page 14, excellently prepared, at least for me, material, a bill on the public sector's salary system, if many of these supplements are not dissatisfied. The only problem I am alerting my colleagues and colleagues, of course, is that the claim that the level of resources required to pay public sector workers will not increase seems to me that it will not. You know, if we take it out of two bags, we have to put it in one if we don't add. That is why I am warning or calling on the drafter of this law to make a study of the starting wages he is preparing, and even though these funds may be slightly higher or, I do not believe, slightly smaller, this is also openly acknowledged and said. However, I would like to point out that we are talking about salaries in the public sector. And I don't want to and I don't want to mix any other wages and no other laws. It is also my personal view that the drafting of a new law on the public sector's wage system is necessary to provide a starting point for creating a suitable and smart basis for all structures of good. Colleagues and colleagues, please give us the opportunity, of course, to once again call for good preparation for second reading, for the ministry and for all preparers to prepare a law on the public sector wage system for second reading. As they say - I will say in the southern Slovenian language, not in the book - people, but I will contact the doctors who are most problematic at this moment: Why pay doctors honestly for their honest work with thousands of supplements if I can basically give him, if I take a doctor in case, his profile and his difficulties, or his university professor, a good and real basis. Supplements should only be a real supplement to what everyone in the public sector is doing and what is stated or will be more precisely defined in the law. I myself will support the law or the proposal of the law in the first reading in the belief that the preparers will also be very well prepared for the second reading at our invitation, all of you, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to speak a few words myself regarding this law. So we need a new law - I wouldn't repeat the arguments - so that we can go ahead and prepare a new law. However, in my opinion, in some respects, this material is not adequately prepared. In fact, this is kind of a list of the existing system, transformed of course into tolars. This is also followed by the number of classes. This shows a lack of determination to pursue a fundamental goal, a serious arrangement of wages, and do not be afraid that he may even resent someone, for he will certainly resent someone. Look, you're saying no one's gonna get worse. So it will be at least the same for all or better for some. And then I listen to the Minister of Finance, and the rest of you, how are we supposed to curb the salaries of civil servants? Not only are we going to have to reduce employment, which of course will be very difficult, because if we approach the European Union, we are going to have to hire more and more, that is probably what ministers and other ministers responsible for the services are aware of. It's about how to fix this thing. Here, too, we come to another area where we can say that certain areas could be privatized, subsidized or excluded from this system of civil servants to move them to a segment where they become market-oriented. However, for those who occur in this market sector, a different salary range and a different way of awarding are required. This will be dealt with as soon as possible. One part, we know, is that this is health, where we have a public service, we also have private contractors who can be some kind of concessionaires, but they can be purely private operators, with only professional ethics or certain other standards, or they can reward themselves. Of course, there will be a need to find answers in this regard. I would also like to answer the question of how to reward or imagine how some civil servants will react, such as beginners who have completed their studies and perform their jobs, and for some, this ratio in salaries will be about one to three. How the social partners will react if they have not so far, but they will. This could be a total blockage. As you can see, these are questions that need to be answered, and this material does not provide answers. I argue that it will be necessary for a certain segment of these public servants, civil servants, not public servants, to find the opportunity on a competitive market, or that most of this country will operate through budgetary spending directly, through public officials, and on the other hand we will have a monopolized quasi-market company where the country will be involved with its interventions in an administrative and other sphere. So much for thinking. For this reason, I believe that this material is not yet ready enough for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! I think it is very important that we have finally received the proposal for a bill on the public sector wage system and that a broader debate has actually begun after more than ten- or 12-year failure attempts to simplify the public sector payment system across the country. This time I wish the government and the minister a happier hand than ever before. The experiments so far have always led to the fact that the pay system was even more uneven and unbalanced. I miss the simultaneous adoption of this law with the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Administration and Public Agencies, and in particular the greater consensus of the social partners. In fact, this consensus has been formally reached and the substantive debate on payment classes has so far not been observed. This is the hottest bone that has been avoided by both the government and the social partners more or less. The social partners are a little less, where everyone can determine whether the system has been unbalanced and uncoordinated so far at better or worse, and adapts its negotiating points to this. Of course, this is a very sensitive area. This is an area that clearly concerns public finances as well as our budget and, of course, in this regard, the government says that neither of the individual sectors will be worse off or no one will be reduced in wages and, on the other hand, there will be no significant financial negative consequences for the country. I'm sure this case is all self-inflicted. In particular, I miss what the country's objective is with this reform. Is it just a singularity, which is certainly necessary, a uniformity, a balance, a harmonisation of individual really very volatile imbalances within the pay system, or something else. The statements made by government representatives are often very contradictory. The Minister of the Interior, who says that no one will actually lose or gain anything, on the other hand, a statement by the Finance Minister that something must be done in this area if we are to manage public finances in the future. That is why I really miss here the basic objective of the government, what it wants to achieve. That's a sensitive point. We're all aware of that together. But the fact is, I think that now is the moment in which a more open and actually open debate can actually begin on the whole segment, what is actually wanted. If the cards are opened, the final solution will be easier. The next question I do not think is what the public sector is and who is not seen or seen in the wage system in the public sector. In my opinion, the public sector is all that in terms of indirect or direct remuneration from the state budget. Indirectly or directly. If such an approach were to be taken, it would be easier to approach. As soon as we make exceptions, I am sure that there is much less chance that this proposal or so-called reform, even though I am assessing, as it stands at this moment, it is not reform. [[...]] [[Aborted.]] That he can make it. [[...]] That's why I'm suggesting that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u144	Mr. Rokavec, I think you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u145	I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u146	'Cause that's supposed to be new. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u147	I'm just finishing if I can.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u148	Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u149	I think my colleague Brenčič has already pointed out that we are missing the so-called public presentation of opinions. It would therefore make sense for this public presentation to be prepared for the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much. It's already been called, Mr. Rokavec. The Committee proposed that there should be a public presentation of the opinions. Because of the other Members and Members who would like to, Mr Sok, then Mr Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. I would just like to raise one very short question before Mr Minister answers. I was just listening to his presentation. Above all, I was paying attention to the part where he described and said what the purpose of this law should be. Among these objectives, I have not heard that I would point out that the greatest objective of this law should be not to trigger conflict situations, as we have seen today, when they constantly appear and predict certain protests by individual groups of employees in the public wages system. In view of this raised issue, I would like to say that, like the other Members, I myself have received a letter from two areas of work. These are the forest workers working in the public forestry service system and the veterinarians who do important work in the public health system and, of course, are not classified as inspectors because we have inspections in this area and we have professionals. These are those who are actually monitoring the whole area of the processing of foodstuffs of animal origin and who are also taking care of, I would say, export matters in this area. First of all, I am interested in why these two categories are likely to remain, so I have understood my colleague Potrč's discussion, why these two categories of these civil servants have fallen out of this law, or do you intend to avoid conflicts in these areas, because some conflicts may also be very acute and may also have major consequences for our country, or do you intend to correct this matter until another stage in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Would you like another Member before I give my word to the Minister? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank you for this debate, which has been very professionally in depth and not political or interesting, as it will certainly be in the future when we engage in material relations. And it was precisely the intention of the proposer to encourage, at the outset, a debate on systemic issues, conceptual issues, that is to say, whether we have set things right or not, not how to set wage relations. This debate is still well under way. It is my firm belief that in the coming period, after today, if so, and I hope that the National Assembly will confirm the law as an appropriate basis for its continued upgrading. Let me first identify up to three, four very principled questions that have been raised here and require some clarifications. First of all, the issue of financial obligations arising from this Act or the claims concerning various declarations in this regard. You need to be very specific here. If you've listened to me very carefully, you may find that, in my financial obligations, I have claimed that they will not be at the budget two-year-old session, this is the year 2002, 2003. This is because the law after our projection will enter into force or become applicable, more specifically, from 1.1.2004. However, the implications needed in the 2004 and 2005 budget bienniums, as well as in 2006 and 2007 will be planned in the sense that decisions will be taken on the planned shifts between individual pay groups. In order for these movements to take place, we are sure of that, but these decisions must be leaned on or followed by a budgetary decision later on for the next two-year period. Of course, we do not plan commitments for this two-year-old for whom the budget has already been adopted. I would also like to clarify the question a little bit more precisely, and many of you have discussed it so that no one will get any worse. In agreement with the social partners, we have included in the law a definition that the individual or individuals who would have a lower salary under the new system would have remained in the same place until the point of equalisation through revalorisations. This is a model that is incorporated into the law, which is also agreed with the social partners, which essentially prevents any person's salary from falling under the law. In this way, I would like to clarify this situation with regard to financial obligations in such a way that you will have a period of the next two budgetary years ahead of your eyes. I agree with those who say that it will be necessary to make projections or simulations of possible movements, or not possible, which are reliable movements between inter-paying groups, what their impact on budgets will be in the coming periods. That's the first question I wanted to explain. The second question relates to social partnership. Here we have two possible models of social and parliamentary dialogue. I'd name one as a serial, one as a parallel. In parallel, some of you have advocated for him that the government first reconcile the law with the social partners and then come to Parliament and say, "It is coordinated, take it or leave it." I think this would be an unconstitutional violence against parliamentarians. I think it's much more appropriate for a so-called parallel model. This means that there is parallel coordination at the same time. This coordination is also ongoing. I said that so far, 10 coordination meetings have been held, four to six hours on average, which means that some 60 hours have been invested in this coordination and that this will be done later. I was quoting the agreement that we agreed that this would run to the final stage. We will, of course, inform the National Assembly exactly what we have been able to reconcile. We will work to ensure that the level of coordination of the Card is high. But we don't think it'll be 100%. And you probably don't think that we're able to handle things with the social partners 100%. The third question I want to say is the question of how to deal with other laws. I agree with your findings that this project is particularly demanding and complex because it is linked to both the Labour Relations Act and the Civil Service Act. But we also have two possible models here. Either we declare one of the laws to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be implementing or the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one, or the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the one to be the right, or the right to be the right to be-to be the right to be the right to be the right to be the right to be the right to be the right to be the right to be the right to be the right to be-to, or the one to be the right to be the right to be the right to be This means that laws are arranged or complementary among themselves, meaning that they are produced together and that taking into account the change in one marriage must be reflected in the change in another. This is a concept that we follow and consider to be more correct than the concept of a roof or implementing regulation. Well, and a fourth question of principle. This is a multiple warning in the debates on how much to include in the law and how much in collective agreements or in the implementation level. Pursuing the inclusion of a larger number or overall regulation in the law is essentially an acquisition that is contrary to the social partnership. It is precisely because we consider that certain implementing areas, in particular the classification methodology, the performance methodology, the award methodology, the specific classification of individual payrolls and also the salary scale, that this is a matter of collective bargaining, that we consider that the payment system should be based not only on law but also on the entire system of social partnership instruments. If you allow me to have a few more specific explanations or explanations regarding issues that have been very specific and very detailed to the very content of the law, which is particularly gratifying. I'll try to comment, or very briefly, on some of your questions. Definition of the public sector. The definition of the public sector is exactly what we have taken from the Civil Servants Act and we are essentially coordinating the same text in both laws. Dr. Sugar is right that it is necessary to define more precisely what the indirect budgetary user is. Here we rely on the regulation adopted by the Government under the Public Finance Act, which lists all direct budgetary users as very busy. So I think the definition of this will be specific enough. The concept of a civil servant is also an issue that we deal with in the same way in the Law on Public Servants. This is the one who is employed in the public sector; what is the public sector, we have defined, as it were, by means of a regulation setting out what are indirect and what are direct budgetary users, but it is not disputed in any way. As far as the question is concerned, what if there is no harmonisation with collective agreements? This, of course, is a legitimate question, an important question. The formal answer to this question is, then the system is as it is now, and coordination must be repeated until it is successful and harmonisation is achieved. It's a matter of methodology. I agree with all those who say this is a very important instrument. I can tell you that in these coordinations with the unions we have already reached with regard to this agreement that the methodology will not be an act of government, but will be included in the collective contract for the public sector, that is, a single methodology, not a branch, but a single but agreed with the unions, so that there will be some criteria for including additional ones in the law. As far as performance is concerned, I would just like to add an explanation here. Dr. Tsukati points out the discrepancy between the 5% formulation and between the government's powers in this regard. I would point out that this is essentially the top number, the upper limit on the possible volume of funds, which is up to 5%, with a very intensive debate currently under way on whether this is enough or not to increase it. As far as possible, in this way we increase the flexible part, clearly, on the basis of a reduction in fixed labour or basic salary. With regard to the very special issue of on-call duty. Here I could only respond to the fact that the conditions for on-calls will continue to be regulated by sectoral laws or, as regards health care, of course, there will continue to be relevant health legislation as regards the conditions. With regard to Article 55, or even this supplementary arrangement of voluntary pension insurance, let me say that it is the power to attach to all those who say that this chapter is in some way artificially glued, added to this law, and that we are seriously considering excluding this part from the law. It is not because of the legitimate remark that the validity of the law is linked to 2004, but that this is supposed to apply to this year's allowances, but also because, according to the profession's views, this issue is not to be settled in this respect, but in another law. Or perhaps even in a special law that we would propose in parallel. It's essentially a matter of matter that isn't paid matter, it's a matter of pension insurance. In such a way that it may happen that the applicants will withdraw from the fact that these articles remain in law. As regards the direction of further coordination with the unions. I hope I've explained enough about this. The agreement we have with the unions is that this will run until the third reading. And even the possible rejection of today's law would be an intervention in such an arrangement, which would not be good. We have committed ourselves, one and the other, to harmonise this text further. I very much agree with the debate on specialities in health care. I must say that even Dr. Kebra and I have already discussed the need to find models outside the pay system, just as one of the respected colleagues has discussed, following a model of rental or concession relationships as complementary relationships for some doctors or for those who perform a quantitative or qualitatively larger part of the deal. Here the differences are so great as health professionals claim to be unable to bring them through the wage system in the public sector, but in other ways, through contractual, concessional relations or the like. This model will need to be specifically studied or specifically defined in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. As regards the comments made by the Slovenian National Party President, Victory Jelinčič, concerning 15 per cent. We have deliberately set this limit here because we believe that the individual could obtain a maximum of 3 allowances of 5 per cent and that the rest, which are the specificities of his work, should be included in the valuation or within the classification of the job as a pay scale. There is a misunderstanding in mentoring or apprenticeship. Mentoring, mentoring allowance is not meant for mentoring at university degrees, but for mentoring for trainees, for first time entering a working relationship, wherever and not only at university. With regard to bilinguality, precisely in those areas where the constitutional guarantee of the bilinguality of international communities is concerned, this supplement would be envisaged, but the debate touches on this issue in a way that would be more appropriate for people using bilingualism to be included in the evaluation of the job itself and not as an addition. So that's what's going on. With regard to the positional allowance or the allowance for less favourable working hours for officials, I would say that the positional allowance is provided for in the law, as well as so far as it is not an allowance for less favourable working hours, unless, for example, a specific law is laid down for Members such as speeches. The Law on Members was mentioned. With regard to compliance with the ZJU, colleague Zupanova spoke of non-compliance both after content and after acceptance. Here I would say that, according to the content, we are always in line with the law on civil servants. However, as regards the timing of the adoption, it is precisely the proposal of the Internal Policy Committee to hold a package discussion on all these rules at the March meeting. I've talked about the financial implications. About vets, foresters, journalists and other special categories, also colleague Sok asked this question, to say that we are inclined to make this comment and that we will take it into account, which means that we will specifically mark these specific categories in chapter H, where it is now just a general definition of "professional workers". I think it's very important that I give a warning to the expert institutions. I would like to inform the National Assembly that we have set up a special expert council on the system of wages, with which we will consult the current version of the law, in particular today. The following week, an expert meeting is scheduled, and we have been working with some experts and helping us with solutions. These most important novelties of the law, such as the transition to nominal amounts, such as a single system, such as an annual award instead of a monthly one, have been advised by experts and I am pleased that no one has objected to these solutions in the debate. In fact, the problem is the law in additions or the problem of the current system. I am just attaching this to my colleague Barovic, and our ambition, of course, is, as I have already said, to reduce the number of allowances to the minimum necessary, which we will then be able to reconcile with the social partners. The question was raised as to what our objective is. Let me do it again. The objective is, of course, also, what was particularly in the undertone of the issue, the regulation of the relationship between paying groups. And not just the setting up of a system that would redefine matters, a more public financially manageable and public financial transparency. These two are also an important goal. But it is with this very purpose that the law provides for an orderly and verifiable process of changing relationships. From here on, the idea of creating a world that must give its opinion on all partial proposals for changing relations. This very procedural part of the law seems very important to us, and this is certainly one of the objectives. I am convinced, however, that some harmonisation of material relations will be carried out in the course of further discussions up to the second or third reading. And this is a debate that is actually now following if the legal concept is supported. And, as has already been said, public presentation and confrontation with professional, civil society, social partners are foreseen in fourteen days, in short, between the first and the second readings. So much for a few explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for all the explanations given. Since there is no longer a desire to discuss, I am concluding the general debate and moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and views. First of all, I put to the debate the first decision of the parent working body, which reads: "Proposal of a law on a system of public sector wages, first of all, is a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law." I invite my colleagues and colleagues to the Chamber because we will vote on the proposal for a decision. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. Unfortunately, the first vote failed. I think there are enough of us in the Chamber, so we will vote on the proposal for a decision next time. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the positions drawn up by the parent working body and recorded in the report of the parent working body, as well as to a discussion on the complementary proposal for a bill on the public sector wage system submitted by Member Lidija Majnik. To this end, the amendment is the amendment of the Member of Mr Miran Potrč. I therefore open the debate on the proposals, on the supplementary proposal, on the amendment to this supplementary proposal and on the positions drawn up by my mother's working body. Because no one wants to discuss it, I'm just closing up and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment to the additional position of Lydia Majnik, of which Mr Potrč is the proposer. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment to Mrs Majnikov's supplementary proposal has been adopted. We are now voting on the applicant's complementary proposal. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 50 votes to 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the supplementary proposal has been adopted. We are now moving on to a full decision on the proposed positions. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed positions are fully adopted. With regard to the law, the mother's working body has also tabled three additional proposals for conclusions on page 4 of the report of the parent working body. I am opening a debate on these proposals. Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Does anyone object to us voting on all three additional proposals for decisions of the parent working body? Because no, I will put to the vote all three proposals, additional proposals for the conclusions of the parent working body. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I also note that the proposed additional conclusions of the parent working body are adopted. This concludes exactly the agenda. Thank you very much to the Minister, representative and representative of the government for their cooperation, including to the government representatives. Thank you very much. And we're moving on to 3. Period of the day - the first draft of the state border control law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be presented to us by the Minister for Home Affairs, Dr. Rado Bohinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u155	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The current law on State border control is, as you are sure to know, part of the so-called rule-of-law and has emerged in the light and spirit of extremely rapid and radical changes during the period of our country's creation. Despite the fact that the law was prepared very quickly, it is of sufficient quality and has provided sufficient legal basis to establish the effective control of the state border, which the Republic of Slovenia urgently needed. However, in the negotiations in the Republic of Slovenia for Chapter 24, Justice and Home Affairs, it was stated that Slovenia must also bring its own acquis into line with the acquis of the European Union by the end of 2002 at the latest, and the Act on State border control was listed in the annex. The new law means the fulfilment of this obligation of the Republic of Slovenia, namely to bring its legal order into line with the law of the European Union and to enable the implementation of the provisions of the Schengen acquis also in practice. Specifically, those provisions of the Schengen acquis which concern cross-border police cooperation and also the exercise of powers, both the Slovenian police in the territory of other States Parties and foreign security authorities in our country. As you are aware, Slovenia is actively preparing to join the Schengen Group. Preparations are expected to be completed on the Schengen Action Plan by the end of 2004. Evaluation in 2005 and subsequent inclusion in the Schengen Group. The legal regime for border control, in particular the adoption of the law in question today, is therefore also part of the preparations for meeting the Schengen conditions. The purpose and principles of this law are therefore in the implementation of the Schengen standards for the protection of the state border. This is to ensure uniform standards for border control at border crossings, to ensure adequate protection of the state border outside border crossings, to ensure security at the external borders of the European Union, as well as to prevent and detect criminal offences, offences and irregular migration at and at national borders, to ensure the appropriateness and proportionality of police powers, taking into account the need to implement measures on the one hand and the interests of individuals and the requirements for the free movement of persons on the other hand. Just this. The law is based on the principles of legality, the principle of adequate control at the external borders of the European Union, the Schengen principle of free movement of internal borders, the implementation of alternative measures and the principles of international police cooperation, all taking into account the legal protection of individuals. The law does not, according to the proposaler, constitute the need for additional financial resources, as it constitutes the continuity of State border control or the exercise of the legal powers that police have so far enjoyed in ensuring the security of the state border as one of the basic tasks of the police. Of course, this claim does not include more financial resources needed to implement the Schengen Border Protection Standards or to implement the previously mentioned Schengen Action Plan. This is the purchase of technical resources, human resources, education needs and so on. However, the law under consideration today lays down only a legal framework or a European coherent legal regime for the control of the state border. As a parent committee, the Internal Policy Committee has endorsed the law, and I propose, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, that you also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. The chairman of the committee, Mr. Lavrinc, is with us. He wants a word? Please, Mr. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I would say that from the report itself, it is clear that it is again a law that has experienced a lot of criticism at the expense of not being prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is because, following this initial report of the Minister, we listened to the representative of the secretariat, who specifically warned that the structure of the introduction was not fully in line with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, since it omitted the assessment of the situation and contained neither the objectives nor the principles of the law. It is also lacking because the financial consequences of the adoption of this law are not properly assessed. While the other consequences are not described at all. As regards the explanation, however, she explained that it is given to individual chapters and not to individual articles, as it should be, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. The representative also had in principle comments on the provision on the detention measures, which was that it was necessary to define more precisely and to deal once again with Articles 19 and 25 of the Constitution. It also had a meaningful view on the provision for a detailed investigation into the transport of funds, with a similar mandate already in the Customs Service Act. With regard to the competence of other State authorities for individual forms of State border control, however, the proposal provides for the regulation to regulate this issue, although it is known that the powers of state authorities can be determined exclusively by law. It also believes that a more detailed definition of the dictatorship of international customs needs to be defined and the powers of the various administrative authorities should be clarified. However, provisions relating to the construction of buildings should be aligned with the law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of buildings at border crossing points. It believes that the powers of the Director-General of the Police should be further regulated with regard to the issue of admission permits for members of foreign security authorities. In this regard, too, to examine the provisions of the current state border control law in order not to conflict between the two laws. Therefore, it also considers that the provisions repealing certain provisions of the arms law should be reconsidered, since the secretariat believes that this should be regulated by a amendment to the arms law. The debate that followed, of course, revolved around the issues already raised in the implementation of the representative of the Secretariat. Therefore, it was particularly stressed that the powers relating to other national authorities should be defined more precisely in Articles 4 and 5. In addition, I must say that one of my colleagues, Comrade Vukko, has made a slightly better effort and has prepared proposals for positions which the Committee has practically fully taken. I would only warn you of a mistake that was caused by recklessness. This is, in the third position, the word "and legality" is superfluous. Indeed, the constitutionality and legality of a provision in law cannot be examined. Because we're just about to enforce the law. By proposing to the National Assembly, given that it is the first time before us and that it is the power of a number of shortcomings to address the fact that the proposal is adopted at first reading, together, of course, with the views proposed by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Committee is therefore positive. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr Dušan Vučko will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democracy, a colleague of Jelinčič, on the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please, buddy Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the LDS Group of Members. Slovenia has signed the European Association Agreement of the European Union, which has the ultimate objective of full membership of Slovenia in the European Union. Of course, this full membership also requires the alignment of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order of the European Union. This harmonisation also requires the adoption of a new law on State border control. In connection with the proposed law, it is also necessary to mention the Amsterdam Treaty, by which the Schengen acquis has been transposed into the acquis of the European Union. The proposed law on State border control means the fulfilment of the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to bring its legal order into line with the legal order of the European Union in this segment and will also allow the implementation of the provisions of the Schengen acquis in practice when it enters into force for the Republic of Slovenia. These are also the reasons why the Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia believes that we support the proposal for a law from state border control and that the proposed law is the appropriate basis for the preparation of the law for second reading, and we draw attention to the following parts of the law in the LDS Group. Firstly, the proposal for a law shows that it is very careful to check, in terms of systemic compliance, the individual provisions relating to the powers of the police in the exercise of State border control. Secondly, certain doubts arise from the envisaged determination of the powers of other state authorities for individual forms of State border control by a regulation. It is a matter of determining the powers of the State authorities as a rule the content of the law, not the content of the regulation. We also believe that it is necessary to define and delineate more clearly the powers of the various administrative authorities, both the police, the administrative authority responsible for geodetic affairs, the ministry, in the management of the border marking tasks. The applicant must re-examine the way in which compensation is settled before the law is drawn up for second treatment where the exercise of ownership is restricted. In the provisions of the bill, we are particularly disturbed by the solution which excludes the possibility of obtaining compensation. In this regard, it is also necessary to verify the provisions imposing certain obligations and obligations on landowners to establish routes, build bridges, install doors and so on. It is true that so far, regulation in this area lays down only the duty of owners to allow for a non-injurious transition. It is necessary to draw attention to the Constitution and its 69th Article, which expressly provides that property rights for public benefit may be withdrawn or limited to compensation in kind or against compensation under the conditions laid down by the law. The issues relating to the construction of buildings in the border line in the border crossing area need to be re-examined and coordinated with the already adopted law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of facilities at border crossings already adopted by this national assembly. In particular, the powers of the police to establish and build buildings, as provided for in the law, must be assessed in this regard. Most of the views of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group on the proposed law are already summarised in the proposal of the Internal Policy Committee and we will therefore support these views in the parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Slovenian national party supports the proposal for a law on State border control, but we have some comments. Comments are mostly more - in fact they are weighty, but they are smaller. If I didn't speak long and wide, I'd go straight to Article 18, which speaks of establishing border crossings for a certain circle of people. It says here that the Director of Police, in agreement with the Director of the Customs Office, may establish a border crossing for the names of certain persons. It goes on to say: "In the event that a border crossing is established for a certain circle of persons at the airport or runway, the director of the police administration issues..." and so on and so on. I think it would make sense if the word "name" were deleted from the sentence that says "for a designated person", but it would be left to "for certain persons" or "for a specific circle of persons". Why? Let us take a case that Mrs Vice President knows well. At the airport Slovenj Gradec was a border crossing, where it often flew mainly from Austria. It is an extremely good cooperation between the Koroski Aeroclub in Slovenj Gradec and the Austrian, in particular the Austrian aeroclubs, and in this case it would be difficult to write three pilots on the list, and for them there is an open temporary border crossing, while for the fourth pilot who sits on a four-seat plane, this transition would not apply, so that one person should take him to Brnik, leave him there and then fly back to Slovenj Gradec. I think it makes more sense here that the word "name" should be deleted and written in the first sentence as in the second sentence, "establish a border crossing for a certain circle of persons", or that it should be left "for certain persons". Next, in Article 26, which speaks of the duties of the master of the vessel, I think it is better to write - i.e. it says here that "the master of the vessel must deliver and give to the inspection of the passport of the crew members". It may be reasonable not to make mistakes, to define, or in the sense of individual terms, that the travel documents also include maritime booklets and shipping booklets, because otherwise there could be a misinterpretation of the fact that the travel document actually means only a passport from a crew member. And also Article 36, which speaks of foreign security authorities. The first paragraph states: "The entry into RS may be granted to members of foreign security authorities in uniform with weapons and vehicles marked with their signs and emblems." Maybe it would make sense to write "personal weapons" here. Because, especially to what I know, on some vehicle "hamves" can also be declared anti-aircraft machine guns 12.7 mm, and yet I don't think that's what it means for some people to come in uniforms with anti-aircraft guns and the like. It would make sense to write "personal weapons." This, of course, would also be in line with paragraph 4 and 5. I believe, however, that according to Article 36 above, a amendment to the arms law or the correction of certain articles should be prepared as soon as possible in order to make this law meaningful or Article 36 of this Law. At the same time, some other nonconsistencies that the arms law still has could be corrected. So much for our side. The Slovenian national party will support the proposal for a second reading law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. I will try to present our opinion on this law on State border control in a short time. First of all, I would say that we are pleased to note that we have a law that is significantly different from what we once understood as a national border, and that we had an army with it, and that we have a field far back, and that today the border is something completely different and something free. Unfortunately, there must still be, until we are a member of the European Union within the Schengen Agreement and until our other neighbours remain, the borders will remain and we must regulate this by law. I have some comments or opinions on the individual provisions of this law. When we speak in Article 3, that the state border is mainly in Slovenia by land and by sea, I think we know that it is also taking place by river, that we also have a border on the river, that is on Kolpa, which is probably quite a piece on Sotla and on Mura and perhaps on some part of another river. That we have clearly defined by law that the police are the authority of the state that controls the state border, and that we also have the opportunity to authorize the state of any other authority that performs certain tasks at the border crossing. I'm thinking mostly at the border crossing. This applies to those smaller border crossings. Above all, I think that against Italy, if not against Austria, we have certainly, where we once had a police officer and customs officer and due to rationalisation, we still have only customs control today, but the customs officer also has all the powers and tasks to carry out his duties as a police officer. While this is written in this sense, it would be necessary to complement all the articles accordingly, where we speak as a police or a police officer, so that another authority, where and for most of these small border crossings, is only a customs officer and therefore he is the authority that performs both functions. That's how we'd complement it. Then the regulation and marking of border crossings, as set out in Article 10. With warning boards, I think today is more about one appropriate marking of access to border crossings and the border in such a way as to alert people to our citizens and others that there is a national border. That she's a bit flawed today. There are border crossings where, unfortunately, when you come from Austria to Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia does not write. But when you leave Slovenia Austria, on the other hand, it says Republic Östereich. By showing these border crossings too, we do not need to be ashamed of our country’s designation, even fitting it where it is not yet. In Slovenia, we have cases where we are talking about setting up prisons on certain routes leading towards the border. Examples are when our citizen, if he wants to get to his house, has to drive even to the neighbouring country along the road and then return across the border to Slovenia to get his property. So you wouldn't be so sad, strictly. Such examples are there in the ceremonial part of the mountain, on the border with Austria and in the area of the Slovenian Mountains. I don't think there will be any future obstacles for these citizens who just have to go home like this. Article 15 states that internal borders can be crossed without border control at any time and in any place. I don't know if that's true today or if it's written for the future. Because today we still have to have a document and prove ourselves when we cross the border. But if that's the case, we'll be happy. Regulation of border crossings in Article 21. I think they would add that border crossings should be arranged in such a way as to allow a safe border crossing in addition to a reasonable one. This is what I say where there is a bridge or a bridge or a vessel to cross the state border and that the state must also provide a safe passage because there is some danger if you have to cross a eyebrow or bridge or by boat to get to the other side of the state border. In Article 28, we are talking again about this: the police officer is doing this control, and so is the other authority, in which case the customs officer who has both of these powers continues to do so in many articles so that he does not repeat it. In Article 30, we refer, or in Article 29, to these technical conditions for possible controls, to these funds. However, it happens that at all these small border crossings of all these conditions it is not likely that they will write down what I know, the possibility that passengers in such a case where all this control is not possible is, however, a suspicious situation is to be thoroughly examined so that they can be sent to another border crossing, and that, for example, the neighbours are working to turn on the border and have to go to another border crossing where these control conditions are, or to call assistance from another border crossing, and yet this check can be carried out here. In general, I would say that the law is suitable for second reading, and if the comments made in today's debate make the text rich, it will be corrected that amendments will not have to be tabled, otherwise an amendment will be tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I have not received written applications for the debate and therefore the debate between Members and Members to be discussed below is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed conclusions and positions. First of all, I put to the debate the first conclusion of my parent's working body, which reads: "The proposal for a law on State border control, first examined, is an appropriate basis for drafting a second-reading bill." Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm concluding the debate. Since we will move to a decision on the proposed decision, please ask Members of Parliament and Members who are located in or near their offices to join us. We are voting on the proposal for a decision, as I have presented it. Since we have not successfully carried out our first vote, I ask once again Members and Members to join us or for the necessary attention. Secondly, we will vote on the proposal for a decision that the law is a suitable basis for a second reading. We're voting. Since the second time we failed to vote, I am adjourning the meeting in ten minutes. At 5:24 a.m., we will vote on the proposal for a decision for a third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u165	I ask you to take your seats because for the third time we will vote on the proposal for a decision of the home labour body, that the proposal for a law on State border control is the first to be considered, a suitable basis for the preparation of a proposal for a second reading law. We are therefore voting on the proposal for a decision for the third time. So please take your seats. We're voting! There are 50 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the debate on the positions drawn up by the mother's working body and recorded in the report of the working body on page 3, which is nine conclusions. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding it and moving on to a decision on the proposal for positions. We're voting! There are 46 Members and Members present. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed positions have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister and representatives of the Secretariat very much for their cooperation. We're moving to four. Agenda item 3 of the Proposal for a Law on the Procedure for the Recognition of Qualifications to Member States of the European Union for the purpose of carrying out regulated calls for action in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word? Ms Staša Baloh Plahutnik, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are ahead of the third reading of the law on mutual recognition of qualifications for regulated professions. During the second and third readings, there were virtually no substantive substantive corrections, so in the third reading we put all those comments that followed from the second reading into the material itself in the draft law and in particular corrected the text in the sense of all the necessary corrections that were found regarding gender and other matters. The law itself systematically regulates the procedure for the recognition of regulated activities and professions in Slovenia, at the same time for citizens of EU Member States, as well as for citizens of the former Yugoslavia. In short, this law, on the one hand, allows that part of the free movement of persons who will later be able to carry out activities in Slovenia on the basis of recognised professions, what I would like to stress is that the Ministry of Labour, between the second and third readings, has re-edited regulated professions in Slovenia, that this number is even higher at this time, and that we have already begun to establish the necessary information system, which was also one of the recommendations and decisions of the Committee on Social Affairs in the second reading. By considering and adopting this law, we assess the need to ensure the staffing, organisational and other conditions arising from the law within six months of adoption. The means to carry out these activities are also included in the 2002 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Chairman of the Committee, to present the opinion of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Well, the mother labour force, this is the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, discussed the bill at the 16th ordinary meeting. It must be said that the proposal for this law, as far as the third reading is concerned, has a slightly longer beard. In preparing this law, the government had some complications, I would say, a slightly worse hand, and it was therefore necessary to replace the text of the draft law for the third reading with a new one. However, it was found in the Committee's consideration of the law, of course, primarily by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, that in the content of the law itself, due mainly to the monotechnic and some other reasons, adjustments should be made. On the basis of the arguments put forward by the secretariat before the members of the Committee, the Committee then adopted a number of amendments that made the necessary amendments and drafted the law as such in a consistent manner. It will therefore take little patience to deal with all these amendments or to go through the procedure from the amendment to the amendment. The Committee also adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that the law be examined and adopted, together with amendments supported by the Committee and amendments to the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, the opinion will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. In the New Slovenia Group we support the adoption of the law on the recognition of qualifications. Slovenia, by signing the European Association Agreement, has undertaken to fulfil all the conditions relating to the free movement of capital, goods and labour. So this area refers to the labour force. Mobility needs to be guaranteed, and this will benefit Slovenia on both sides. Although we have tabled an amendment in terms of more up-to-date recognition of qualifications. For we believe that the country must show its speed here and, of course, its accuracy. We hope that this amendment will also be adopted. Otherwise, we have been revitalizing the importance of an attachment, whether it is an integral part of the law or not. In fact, this annex is of such a nature that it can only be of an informational nature. Life is turning quickly, and this annex should be changed virtually every day. That is why I only understand it and only as additional information. I hope I'm not wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you. Since no member group wants to present its opinion again, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. On the proposal of the law as a whole. Since no one wants to debate, I am closing the debate and moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 14.2.2002. I am putting three amendments to Article 6, all three amendments being amendments to the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under Article 1 to 6. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. That's why I'm asking for your attention. I think that at the time of concentrated work, we could complete the third reading of this law by six o'clock today. Secondly, we decide on the amendment under 1 of which the committee is the proposer. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This has made the Government's amendment to Article 9 irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Many of these amendments are related to the amendments below, but after talking to our colleagues in the professional services, we decided to go ahead and find out the connection and we will warn you about that. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 7. Both amendments are proposed by the Committee. Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! The vote was unsuccessful. May I have your attention, please? There's enough of us in the hall. Thus, if everyone voted, the vote would be a success. Second, we vote on the amendment under order number 1. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on just one amendment to Article 9, because the amendment under 1 has become irrelevant as a result of the amendment adopted to Article 6. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 2 to 9. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to Article 10. The amendment under 1 is proposed by the Committee, under the 2 members of the New Slovenia Group and under the 3 governments of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Coward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u172	I would just like to express my opinion on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Indeed, the amendment refers to two months within which the decision is to be issued. I would like to stress in particular that the four months stem from the European directive on the basis of which the law is being drawn up, and for Slovenia we estimate that the period of two months is not acceptable because these procedures are currently going from, I will say, a few months, and up to two years. And that is why we are assessing, of course, that it makes sense to adopt a solution as established by Europe and to stick to it as short as possible within these four months. This is not how we support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much. So, the directive is that within four months it is necessary; those countries that are working on an expediate basis are certainly working within such a period. But I said, if this affects or if the state acts rationally and does everything within four months, it will be a great success. But it would be a good thing if I made decisions in 60 days. Other countries also have a period of four months, but they issue decisions much earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 3. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 27. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 27.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're also deciding on the amendment under number three. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. There's 52 of us in the hall. I'm asking for your attention by 6 p.m. because we can really finish our work on this marriage. Second, we vote on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 11. The amendment under number 1 shall be proposed by the Committee and by number 2 by the Government, which is not supported by the parent working body. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We are moving on to an amendment decision under number one. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 19. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 16 of which the Committee is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 17. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! Again, we did not vote successfully for the first time. May I have your attention, please? This is the second time we've voted on the amendment of the committee. Let's vote! Because for the second time we were not successful in the vote, there are so many of us in the Chamber that we can actually vote on this amendment in force. [[...]] Because I have a lot of signs to do thanks very much, Mr. Anderlich. [[...]] I know him very precisely, even with respect to the 10-minute recesses at the second vote, I will ask the National Assembly to, despite the fact that the Rules of Procedure provide for a 10-minute recess, to work and vote on this law, but Members may decide and I will ask them first whether they want to vote on the third before the 10-minute recess. [[...]] [[...]] I am putting this decision in the hands of the Members. Let us vote on the proposal to hold a third vote before 10 minutes. Well, that won't be necessary. Third vote at 17.57 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-27-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u176	This is the third time we will vote on the amendment to Article 16. If you agree, you would try to complete the vote on the amendments of the committee and the government. This is the third time we have voted on the amendment to Article 16. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 17. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 18. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 19. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 20. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to the amendment of the government of which the committee is proposing, and under order number 2, the amendment of the committee is. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment to the amendment. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment of the Committee under 3. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 22. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 23. Under 1 is an amendment to the government, under 2 amendments to the board. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 52 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. There is also discussion and decision on the last two amendments to Article 24. The proposer shall be the committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. I ask the secretariat whether the adopted amendments violate each other's conformity with the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the proposal. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and the secretariat very much. Thank you very much. Tomorrow, we will continue to deal with item 5 of the agenda and then in order of order. Thank you so much and good night.
